hss DEF OOCIEUN MAGAZAZAIN B ci VOL. 45 NO.1 rh pee Lesspns for April $ A New Year's Greeting A! The beginning of another year, the General Board of Relief Society send love and greetings to their beloved sisters the world over. Although we are not able to be with you in person, our thoughts, best wishes, and prayers are with you. As we pause to reflect upon the events of the past year, our hearts swell with gratitude and appreciation to our Maker for the gospel, for life, for family, for friends, and for the opportunity of actively participating in the great work of the Relief Society organization. Activity in Relief Society brings joy and satisfaction which can be gained in no other way. It is the hope that many blessings and opportunities may come to those who continue in this gratifying work. Nothing can now be added to the old year, but what of the New Year? How satisfying it is to have a new beginning—a new year—another day in which to start afresh. At this new beginning may we be determined to serve more fully, love more generously, and live more righteously—to merit the blessings of this life which are subordinate to those blessings of exaltation of the life to come. May we give to Relief Society our loyalty and a full measure of devotion in order that the Relief Socicty organization, as well as its individual members, may be the beneficiaries of the blessings of our Heavenly Father. May the year 1958 bring great joy and happiness into the lives of Relief Society members, and may their abiding testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ grow and become strengthened as they work unceasingly for the upbuilding of his kingdom here upon the earth—a living, driving conviction that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, and that he gave his life for the salvation of mankind that we may have eternal life. This is our most priceless possession. "For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). The Cover: Summer Sunset, Nagelungen Lake, Near Stockholm, Sweden Photograph by Eben J. Blomquist, Jr. Submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist Frontispiece: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar The beautiful "Thanksgiving Song" by Margery S. Stewart in the November issue of the Magazine stirred my very soul. It is like a beautiful, unselfish prayer. We too seldom think to give thanks for our doctors, nurses, teachers, and others who give so much service to the world. I should also like to comment on the article ""Mother Had Seven Girls" in the June 1957 issue of the Magazine. My mother also had seven girls, and we had practically the same experiences as those related by Sister Jennie B. Rawlins. Six of us still remain, and our lives and homes have been made richer and fuller by having such wonderful material and religious training in our pioneer home. —Mrs. Aletha Lowe Hardy Franklin, Idaho They say that everything comes to those who wait, and sometimes you can get it a little quicker if you go after it. Well, for years I've been after the things required for netting, and I didn't even get to first base. Now, I open my Magazine and find just what I want ("Netting Today," by Olive W. Burt, November 1957, page 750). I am very happy that the equipment and instructions are available. —Lenora McAdam Vancouver, B. C. Canada A few years ago I was on my mission in the Central Atlantic States. The Relief Society of the ward sent me a subscription, as they do all missionaries from this area. Then and there I became fully aware that the Lord was inspiring somebody to fill the pages of that Magazine with the best literature available. I studied the theology section each month and used the lessons with our investigators with the best of success. I can truthfully say that the Magazine was one of the most valuable sources of information I had to use on my mission.... Now I am married and have a family. I remember the Magazine in the home of my grandmother, my mother, and other relatives. Now it is in our home. We would feel lost without it. —Dr. Robert G. Talley La Crescenta, California Page 2 For the past few months I have been receiving copies of The Relief Society Magazine, but I have not any idea at all who is sending them, but I have spent many evenings reading the interesting articles. I am a member of the South London Branch, and although I am not a member of Relief Society, I am very interested in the work and enjoy learning about the activities. 'The article I enjoyed most in the September issue was "A Temple Rises in New Zealand," by Wealtha S. Mendenhall. I am very interested in geography, so any article about a foreign country has me enthralled! A temple is also rising in England, here at Newchapel, and it will be really wonderful for us all when it is finished. After reading about Relief Society work, I have reassured myself that I will become a member when I am older, as I am only fifteen years old, and all my time is filled up with school work at the moment. —Margaret Scrivener Putney, London England Each month in the Central American Mission, twenty-one Relief Society organizations, with a membership of 300, receive the Magazine. The sisters are grateful to the general board of Relief Society and others for the gift subscriptions. Their native language is Spanish. Only a few read English. However, from the pictures, frontispieces, covers, Notes From the Field, hobbies, etc., they get an insight into Relief Society activities. 'They see other Singing Mothers wearing the uniform dark skirt and white blouse; other sisters making quilts, doilies, and rugs. The picture of my mother, Mrs. Ella J. Cotter, in the August issue, with her lovely quilts, pleased them, of course. 'They noted the fluffiness of the quilts and the radiance of her smile, telling them that life is full at eighty-five years, if we employ our minds and hands to create. 'The Magazine truly makes for world sisterhood in our Church. —Gladys K. Wagner President Central American Mission Relief Society THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 JANUARY 1958 NO. 1 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES A New Year's Greeting 1 Women, Wonderful Women! 000......222-:2c-eceeccceeeeeeeeeeeee Spencer W. Kimball 4 Award Winners—Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 2..... C... C. Cce-ccceeecceeeeecceceececeeseeeeceseeeeecese 9 Pray Without Ceasing—First Prize Poem -.0......... CececececececesceeeeeeeccceeeecceceteeeeeeeeesHelen Candland Stark 10 Song of the Weathervanes—Second Prize Poem o20n.... EceceiciccesecenencneeeeeeceeeeceeetecsneseeeesceeesLael W. Hill 12 The Lumined Rod—Third Prize Poem 22.0... Eee ceesceecscscececceeeeececeenees Alice Morrey Bailey 14 Award Winners—Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest.......... Ccecesssscecsccceseeccsccececcseececeneneneeeeees 15 The Day We All Went to Rainbow Springs—First Prize Story.....0.222......-Deone R. Sutherland 16 JA Tenet (Clive. Cray' we Veh Twa} COUT aV(o) «1 ee ek ee on ame Senor he 35 The March of Dimes for 1958.............. As... Basil O'Connor 29 Biographical Sketches of Contest oe eRe ol LS el a A Oey TE37 Three-Part Songs for Relief Society Singing Mothers. Florence J. Madsen 44 FICTION Elizabeth's Children—Chapter 1 ooecccecceeeccceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees Olive W. Burt 24 GENERAL FEATURES Jantar ANiour Gate! Jeter Sean ae cS; 2, yogi ge Grea) /: G fo) | Ee er; figs, cs ol 30 Woman's Sphere....... A Ae ES Ramona W. Cannon 31 Editorial: The Value of Time W000..., Vesta P. Crawford 32 INH Boy loYe ertlkc eee hy Pee ee ee 2+ 2 ee 34 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities......... Hulda Parker 45 Regulations Governing the Submittal of Material for °* 'Notes From the Field'? Oes 47 Birthday Congratulations........... Eee AL 72. FEATURES FOR THE 'HOME It's a New Year Helen Ct Williams 21 Recipes: Prom "Swe Cent tse ee meee kee, oP acs eeecancceles: Ruth T. Oscarson ri Mercy Waters Peay Writes and Memorizes Poetry.00....-.:-e:-: cseececeeeee Potato wtaveny Morenci tccsee ee ceeesereateresre = LESSON DEPARTMENT a Alice R. Rich 42 Theology: The Three Special Book of Mormon Witnesses.......2..: c: ccscscecceeeceesseceeceeeeeesRoy W. Doxey 49 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'Look Unto Me in Every Thought; Doubt Not, ILCXSOCMINIO Us os inte A i ae Pr ee i aChristine H. Robinson 55 Work Meeting: Savings and Added Happiness ooo... CcecceeseeeescesentecceeeeneceeeeeeeeesWilliam F. Edwards 56 Literature: Macbeth, Villain or Hero?............. Sc.... CcsecccscseesecscsaescscenencceceeseccscnscnesactecnesesocesBriant 8. Jacobs 58 Social Science: Love—A Basic Ingredient.2............. Ecc eee ecececeececeeeeeeesceeetecteeeceeeceeeeeeeesJohn Farr Larson 65 POETRY Pr ticlaltereclibot at ee ee enMabel Law Atkinson 8 White With Silence... Sot phe et a ke ae ees OS eedChristie Lund Coles 21 Tew.) | Vitaiione ec eee ee ES 8 eet. ="Hazel M. Thomson 33 STOLE Sie CLM WV ITC GaN CW es ere 2a oe SoA. Fe Drocn ccc ects N00 chevectnanesvock sot ceeesacvorcorvort ab ucdeseeeesHelen H. Winn 36 Poem for January «uuu.... Pansye H. Powell 40 Winter............... Te Sih: etEvelyn Fijeldsted 41 (DNC KOs (ot A ee ae eeIda Elaine James 43 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 3 Whte cme clic la MasSi Ori tegeccesectie es te ca eacele cose aces asn dct _sacseanesencentsoatete Preston R. Nibley 22 Women, Wonderful Women! Elder Spencer W. Kimball Of the Council of the Twelve gospel of Jesus Christ in the last century and the light of truth has pervaded the earth, particularly the country in which the Restoration took place, there has been fabulous progress in material things. We have come from the horse plow to the great tractor driven batteries of plows. From the tallow candle to the electric light; from the sickle and cradle to the harvesting machines; from the ox team to the car, the bus, the train, and the plane; from the almost primitive sail ships to the ponderous ocean liners; from the pony express to air mail, telephone, telegraph, cable, and radio the world around. Great strides in facilities have come to women, bringing ease, time, comforts, and conveniences. From the four-wall house has come the many-room mansion enjoyed by the majority of people; from the metal wash tub to the porcelain and tile tub and shower baths, often two or more to the home; from the iron stove for wood or coal to the gas and electric ranges, and the central heating controlled from a single switch; from the broom to the vacuum; from the pantry to the refrigerator, deep freeze, and the storage room; from the washtub to the power machine cleaner, and from the sadiron to the laundry, or to the dryers, mangles, and other efficient ironers; from the garden and farm to the neighborhood shopping cenCe the restoration of the Page 4 ter where everything from a needle to a threshing machine can be had in proper packages in limitless variety. The modern housewife has the dishwasher, the disposal, the telephone, delivery service, garbage collection, sprinkling systems. She usually has a car of her own or a car available to her, and a radio in her kitchen while she does her reduced duties, and a television set in her living room to watch as she has leisure. 'Today's women, especially in the United States and some other countries, have ease, comfort, leisure, conveniences, and time, such as no other women in history have had. What has she done with her newfound liberties and freedoms and opportunities and time? Has she perfected her own life? Is she more dutiful and faithful to her reduced home duties than was her greatgrandmother with her multiplicity of arduous ones? Is today's woman a better wife to her husband? Is the modern electrically driven home of today a happier haven of refuge than the four walls of the last centuries? Is she today a better, more congenial neighbor than yesterday's woman? Does she have more children now that she has more time, better facilities, and more help? Does she train her children better than her ancestors did? Does she _ herself have more faith and piety than the women of old? And does she better WOMEN, WONDERFUL WOMEN! Instill into her children the faith which will make gods of them? Am thinking of the blessed mothers who accepted the gospel under the voice and pleadings of those great missionaries, the sons of Mosiah two millenia ago. 'These women loved their children next to the Lord; they would sacrifice everything for the kingdom and for their offspring; they were women who remained home and taught their children righteousness and were willing to forego the society affairs and the spectacular events; women who gave themselves to their homes and families. In spite of the crudeness of their facilities, the household drudgery and farm service, they bore and reared their families in a manner which is seldom found today. Is it possible in all the history of the world down to this current year, that there ever was a group of wives and mothers so diligent in their training, so powerful in example, so efficient in instilling into their sons an unswerving faith in God? There could never be such a spontaneous universal development without organization and a spearheading movement. The Church of God through its Priesthood and Auxiliaries gave that leadership. 'These sisters must have been organized to teach each other and to build faith and to study the gospel and to build an individual testimony toward a plateau of mass faith which would be so necessary. Certain it is that they acted in unison. They with their husbands buried their weapons of war; they took the same oaths; they taught their sons the same doctrines. They repented of their evils, and their war killings and vowed they 5 would never again take the life of even an enemy and even in war. Their determination was fixed. When enemies came upon them they would "suffer death in the most aggravating and distressing manner... Before they would take the sword or cimeter to smite them" (Alma 27:29). They prostrated themselves before their enemies, praising God the while. "And there was not a wicked man slain among them" (Alma 24:27). These were the kind of people who produced the kind of sons who had such unwavering faith that the enemies' darts were powerless to kill them. And now, years later, two thousand of their sons enlist to fight the battles of their oath-bound parents. These young men fought in many battles, hard-fought battles, bloody, disastrous battles, and not one son lost his life! Has anything so miraculous ever happened before or since? All around them were their allies falling, dying by the sword and other weapons; all around them swords were slashing, spears were flying, yet not one of them to die. "As many as were able to take up arms" came into this special little army. Not just the few screened, top-flight, spiritually faithful came. It was all the young men physically fit and of sufficient age and co-ordinated strength. "And they were all young men" (Alma 53:20). These were of the age when usually theze is a beginning of skepticism, the natural physical urges and demands which often pull young men away from spiritual hitching posts, but "they were exceedingly valiant for courage, and also for strength and activity; but behold this was not all —they were men who were true at 6 all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted. Yea, they were men of truth and soberness, for they had been taught to keep the commandments of God and to walk uprightly before him" (Alma 53:20-21). (Italics the author's.) ERE were two thousand stripling soldiers whom the great commander Helaman called his "two thousand sons, (for they are worthy to be called sons...).". The general tells how happy the beleaguered and worn-down regular army was when they saw coming to them as reinforcements "those sons of mine." Hope and joy were stimulated in the army which had been near despair. Apparently, the honor and integrity and valor of the 2,000 youngsters had already gone before them. The very strength of this new addition to the army frightened out the Lamanite enemy so that there was no battle for some time, allowing space to concentrate gains and to further fortify. Now came reinforcements in men and also in food and provisions to sustain the Nephite army, this food being provided by the Ammonites, the parents of these unusual boys. "An army fights on its stomach," someone has said, and the food from Ammonite converts was in the nick of time. The small army of "my little sons" now was used in stratagem—a most hazardous adventure, wherein the powerful army of the Lamanites was induced to follow a retreating small army of boys. These youth could have all been massacred. After more than two days retreat, with the great enemy on their heels, Helaman had asked them if they should turn and mect the Lamanite RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 army of vastly superior numbers. Helaman said: Never had I seen so great courage, nay, not amongst all the Nephites. For as I had ever called them my sons (for they were all of them very young) even so they said unto me: Father, behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth; we would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the army of Antipus. Now, they never had fought, yet they did not fear death... And... They HAD BEEN TAUGHT BY THEIR MOTHERS, THAT IF THEY DID NOT DOUBT, GOD WOULD DELIVER THEM. And they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying: WE DO NOT DOUBT OUR MOTHERS KNEW IT (Alma 56:46-48). (Capitalization the author's.) The Nephite army of Antipus, deprived of their commander, and other leaders who had fallen, was about to give way when the inspired youth turned on their pursuers and closed them in a natural vise. 'The battle, which was almost surely conceded for the huge Lamanite army, now became a Nephite victory. Fond and proud Helaman now took inventory. His little sons had been in the fierce heat of the battle where blood flowed freely and death stalked the battlefield. The faith of their great leader hardly measured up to that of the boys for he feared, "lest there were many of them slain,' but to his great joy "NOT ONE SOUL OF THEM HAD FALLEN TO THE EARTH; YEA, AND THEY HAD FOUGHT AS IF WITH THE STRENGTH OF GOD; yea, never were men known to have fought with such miraculous strength; and with such mighty power..." (Alma 56:56). (Capitalization the author's.) "My stripling Ammonites," the great leader re- WOMEN, WONDERFUL WOMEN! Peated over and over as he delighted in their safety, the results of their goodness and their faith. ND now sixty more of the young men joined the stripling sons and Commander Helaman continued his praise. As the rest of the army was about to give way before the enemy, the "SONS" were firm and undaunted.. They did obey and observe to perform every word of command with exactness; yea, and even according to their faith it was done unto them; and I did remember the words they said unto me THAT THEIR MOTHERS HAD TAUGHT THEM (Alma 57:21). (Capitalization the author's.)... They are young, and their minds are firm, and they do put their trust in God continually (Ibid., 27). Why did these stripling Ammonite boys act as one with such unparalleled faith? Why could these youngsters face a great, trained, well-equipped army of enemy troops? Why did these 2,060 lads march without fear or worry? (Sixty more had joined them.) "We do not doubt our mothers knew it," they said, and they knew that God would deliver them if they were faithful and they knew they had been obedient. One thousand of their allies lay dead on the battlefield, 2,060 of the army boys had received wounds, 200 of them had been hurt enough that they fainted for loss of blood, but, true to the promise of their mothers, not one had died in the skirmishes. Do 2,060 lads automatically develop this superior faith? Has there ever been in all history a total large group of young men so spiritual? Surely, in every age there have been 7 individual young men who stood above the crowd, who acted like men, who would give their all for a cause, but was there ever a total group of all who were able to take up arms, who were so trusting in God? In our two great world wars we had numerous individual young men who were clean, diligent, pious, and consecrated, but we also had those who did not uphold the standards of the gospel. 'Today, in the military and in our colleges and in industry and business, we have noble individual youth certainly equal to the sons of Helaman, but in few, if any, communities do we find "all who are able to bear arms" in that category. Do sons grow strong spontaneously? Do youth become spiritual and remain clean and virtuous without training? Could it be that there are many careless, unclean, irreligious youth today because mothers fail to train? The stripling sons of the former dark-skinned Lamanites were superior because "... They had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them" (Alma 56:47). 'This teaching is not a single sermon but a lifetime of example and precept. Here were mothers who loved their sons more than themselves, more than clothes, or entertainment, or social life, or business life, or luxuries. Here were women who gave themselves to their families—time, energy, effort, mind, and soul. 'Then came the dividends: a whole community of righteous, noble sons to sire generations of people so full of goodness and faith that it was to carry over through centuries. It is highly possible that some of the Nephite disciples may have been 8 the sons or grandsons of these perfectly trained youth. Quite likely that their descendants were among the faithful who crowded around the temple and heard the voice of Elohim and saw the Christ and felt the wounds in the body of the Atoning Sacrifice. ND the thought continues to ring over and over: What would be the condition in our communities of youths if the modern mothers, with their freedom from household drudgery, wealth of facilities, increased time, and greater training, were to concentrate upon the training of their children; if they were to come home from the factory and the office and the schoolroom in those years when children are in the home; if they were to reduce their social obligations, their entertainment, and selfish diversions; if they were to dedicate the major part of their time and energies and powers to the creation of a small heaven in their home, total co-operation with their husbands, and a limitless devotion, teaching, training, leading, developing their children; investing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 their lives in their families, using the Church, the gospel to the fullest extent in that training? It is hardly likely either that the community of mothers of 2,060 sons would act spontaneously to accomplish such a feat. There must have been Priesthood and Auxiliaries. There must have been preaching and exhorting meetings. There must have been classwork with lessons given, and activities where truths were taught and standards set up. No mothers can hope to do for their children alone what they can do for them with the vehicles which the Church gives to them. If women are less successful in their prime and most important calling than their sisters of two thousand years ago, is it not a difference only in devotion, consecration, determination, sacrifice, unselfishness, understanding, and patience? God bless the women, the wonderful women of every time and age and place, who establish first in their lives their Lord, his work, and their families. Perfect Prelude Mabel Law Atkinson I never knew the mellowed years could hold A sweeter rapture than the hours of youth; That every shadow would be fringed with gold, And meditative leisure crowned with truth. I always knew that ripened fruit must fall And amber grain be gathered in the sheaf, But never dreamed the harvest best of all; That gentle, quiet days could be too brief. For beauty lingers on the twilight trail; Companions journey, hand in hand, their eyes Seeing the light ahead that does not fail, Illume the opening gates to paradise. I never knew the mellowed years could be The perfect prelude to eternity. Award Winners Gone KR. Sriewe Poem Contest THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1957 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1957 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15: 1967 - The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Helen Candland Stark, Wilmington, Delaware, for her poem "Pray Without Ceasing." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Lael W. Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Song of the Weathervanes." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, for her poem "The Lumined Rod." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924 in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Stark appears for the second time as an award winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Hill is a first-time winner; and 1957 marks the fourth time that Mrs. Bailey has placed in the contest. There were 140 poems submitted in this year's contest. Entries were received from twenty states, with the largest number coming, in order, from Utah, California, Oregon, and Idaho. Entries were received also from Canada, Hawaii, Africa, England, and Australia. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. 'The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. Biographical sketches of Helen Candland Stark, Lael Woolsey Hill, and Alice Mortey Bailey appear on page 37. Page 9 PrizeWinning (Poems Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest eo ee HELEN CANDLAND STARK First Prize Poem Pray Without Ceasing Helen Candland Stark How shall I make myself one with this time? Let go, let go, even your scarlet treasure, Maple despoiled. Knee deep in gold, I measure Leaves' profusion—know they melt to lymn With amber dust the fern's first leaf in spring. In the cone's cup the blood-root makes its bed. The bare fingers of birch so whitely dead, Point to the pulse of each transmuted thing. Page 10 Now I am drunk with color, now at last Submerged in peace. I turn for one more look To hope the floating oak leaf on the brook Returns, swirls into consciousness, to cast In some dark hour its secret on my shore. Oh, baby hemlock trees, be spirit's store. II What can I give you but a well of grief From which my body dips this cup of tears, Let winter pluck the autumn-shadowed leaf: Here was a fruit tree in the bloom of years; Here was a tree for nourishing the young; Here was a tree that cast a grateful shade; Here was my own, my precious tree among All other trees. What reason can be made? So do I pour my tears on barren earth. The roots are severed and the branches fade. I pour my tears? Oh, what is my grief worth? It cannot make what has been now unmade. But if I give my love, can your soul know And answer somehow, "Yes, I live. I grow'? Il Use me, O Lord, for I am yours to use: I am your grass, your cloud, your wandering wind. Blot out the sin, unyieldingly I sinned, When, as the grass I would be wet with dews; When, as the cloud, I would sail white and free; When, as the wind, I would not brook your hand Lest fettered, I should find an iron band Locked to your purposeful eternity. Where is the cloud after the rain has dropped? Where is the grass after the scythe has cut? Safe in the hand the winnowing wind will shut The wheat, and then its threshing voice be stopped. Use me at last. The field belongs to you. Here are my hands. Lord, yours are riven through. Page 11 Page 12 LAEL W. HILL Second Prize Poem Song of the Weathervanes Lael W. Hill The Old World steeples point their vanes High above hamlet, field, and town— Does the wind blow fair... Does the wind blow rains? And the iron cocks look down. The winds blow east, or the winds blow west, The plows begin and the seed is flung, And the storks find each old chimney-nest.... The cocks turn; time is young. The elms are green and the wild rose blooms And a woodthrush melts the morning air; The good wives shake out all their rooms.... The cocks turn; summer's there. Beyond the towns, fields ripple gold, The sickles glint and the windmills clack, Men finger grain and measure bold.... The cocks turn forth and back. The Old World winds blow north, blow south, Storehouses fill and the leaves let go; The young in love put mouth to mouth.... The cocks wear combs of snow. The roofs are tile or the roofs are slate And the walls are friendly-built and warm; The iron cocks turn soon and late— Does the wind blow fair or storm? The Old World steeples rise through years Where hamlet, field, and town are kinned.... And blows now laughter, hope, or tears, The cocks turn with the wind. Page 13 Page 14 ALICE MORREY BAILEY Third Prize Poem She Lumined Rod Alice Morrey Bailey Too long we likened faith to candle strength, Whose fickle flame will not outlast a breath, A flick of light to end the stern day's length, A guttering taper at the gates of death. Faith is the blaze within a Van Gogh's breast, The flash of vision planted with each seed, The fire beneath a fervent prayer's request, Which moves the force of heaven with its need. And faith, with work, can be a furnace blast, A welder's torch where works of man arise, The fiery pen dipped in the molten cast, Which writes his burning message on the skies. And faith, with love, can be the lumined rod To lead men to the shining face of God. Avard Wiianers Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1957 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1957. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Deone R. Sutherland, Oakland, California, for her story "The Day We All Went to Rainbow Springs." 'The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Mabel Law Atkinson, Dayton, Idaho, for her story "Fifty Singing Aprils." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Edna H. Day, Idaho Falls, Idaho, for her story "The Wee Pine Knot." All of these women are first-time winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest. Mrs. Sutherland and Mrs. Atkinson have been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by numerous contributions, and Mrs. Day is the author of the article "A Nursery Will Be Maintained," which appeared in the June 1957 issue of the Magazine. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1958. Fortyeight stories were entered in the contest for 1957. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission from the general board. 'lhe general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. 'The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. A biographical sketch of Deone R. Sutherland appears on page 37. Page 15 First Prize -Winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Day We All Went to Rainbow Springs Deone R. Sutherland Y brothers Winslow and Charles sat out in back of the carriage house making small explosions by mixing sodium bicarbonate with acetic acid. Papa said it wouldn't be long before they would be bright enough to blow us all off the face of the earth. Mrs. Cherry who was new (Mama was always getting new hired girls to help, because the old ones would get married or quit because of all: the work six boys and one girl made) said she thought Winslow and Charles would end up just one big grease spot. It was a very dull, hot summer day for me. I sat and watched the ants crawl up and down in their holes. I almost wished Papa-would come home and assign mea job. Usually Arthur or Teddy was around to play with, but they had been put to bed right after they had fallen off the barn. Russell had gone with Papa to buy a new pane of glass to replace the one in the top of the front door. Papa was teaching Russell to be responsible, and since he had thrown the discus higher than good judgment would indicate (it had come straight through the window in the door, making Mrs. Cherty call out, "It's the last days for sure!" ), Papa was spending Russell's money for the glass and allowing Page 16 DEONE R. SUTHERLAND him to do all the work replacing it. Papa just went along to be sure the job was done right. That left only Lenora, and since she was the oldest, she never played with us anymore, especially since Edgar Jackson kept coming evenings and Sunday afternoons to our house more and more. All of us boys really liked Edgar Jackson, only we couldn't see why he wanted to come see Lenora. We thought he had better sense than the other fellows, but he was as silly over her as any of them, we had to admit. We thought Edgar was special, because he and his father had been the first ones in town to buy an automobile. 'There are others now, but none had as many extra things as the Jacksons had bought for their Oldsmobile. Edgar had bought fenders, a front bumper, and a top and a windshield and installed them all himself. Naturally, we thought he was pretty smart, especially Winslow and Charles who were older and knew about such things. Papa said the automobile would never prove practical, Besides, the way it scared the livestock and the women and children, it was probably just another vulgar machination of the devil. "Alexander, the chickens are in your Mama's garden!" I almost fell off the porch when Mrs. Cherry yelled like that so close behind me. I trotted over to the garden, and sure enough, there were Papa's prize Black Minorca roosters that Papa had bought for breeding purposes. He had only been able to afford a pair, and I could imagine his remarks if he had heard Mrs. Cherry's disrespectful way of referring to them as "chickens." It took me quite awhile to get them out of the garden so as not to ruffle their feathers too much. 'They were most aggravating about Mama's garden. Mrs. Cherry had shouted steadily at them since she had started working for us, and Mama came out and shooed ineffectually with her apron, but the roosters had minds of their own. 'The two hens were better behaved. I finally got the better of the roosters and shooed them far down behind the house away from the garden and back into their pen. Papa said we would have to raise the wire on the run, though the little damage they did was well worth it in the long run, if Papa was able to raise some fine purebred chickens. I thought of telling Mrs. Cherry how special the two roosters were, but decided against it. It took a lot of courage to broach Mrs. Cherry about the most general subject, let alone the roosters. HEN I sneaked up the back stairs to see for myself how Arthur and Teddy were, I heard Mama and Lenora talking in Lenora's room. Since the door was wide open, I couldn't get by without them seeing me. [I sat on the top step to wait. Right away I knew something was up, because they were talking a lot different than they usually did when they turned a feather tick. "But for Papa to tell Edgar and his father, right out and tell them that he wouldn't be caught dead riding to Rainbow Springs in an automobile...."" Lenora's voice wailed into silence. Mama's voice was breathy from turning the tick. I'd have gone in to help, but I knew they'd stop talking if I did. "There wouldn't have been room for all of us anyway, Lenora...." "That's just it. Papa knew Edgar's Uncle Willy was going to take some of us in his Studebaker. Papa doesn't realize how important it is to please the Jacksons when they've asked us especially to be their guests on account of me." Lenora sounded as if she'd buried her face under the feather tick, but that didn't seem likely. I felt uncomfortable. "Now, now, Lenora, we'll all have THE DAY WE ALL WENT TO RAINBOW SPRINGS 17 18 just a lovely time. We'll go on the train, like Papa told Mr. And Mrs. Jockson we would, and we'll meet them at Rainbow Springs and have a perfectly lovely day together." "Maybe Arthur and Teddy will still be too shaken up to go Saturday," Lenora said hopefully. "Oh, they're not hurt one bit," Mama _ said reassuringly. "Papa thought keeping them in bed would serve as a punishment, too." If they were being punished, I'd never get to see them, at least not until tonight. I crept back downstairs, watching out for Mrs. Cherry. I had some news maybe I could sell to Winslow and Charlie. It sounded as if we were all going to get to go. News like that ought to be worth at least an envelope of copper sulphate. I went around the corner of the shed just as Mrs. Cherry came around the other side. "Take one of my best pots, will you, for your vile smelling brews!" She topped the pot upside down on the ground. I was halfway up the hill when Winslow and Charlie passed me. We lay in the hollow most of the afternoon studying cloud pictures and discussing the end Mrs. Cherry most likely would meet. Later we walked down to the canal and then home. Nobody was ever late, with Papa sitting down to eat right on the dot. Winslow and Charlie cheered up a lot when I told them about the Jacksons and Lenora and Rainbow Springs. LONG before Saturday, Mama began instructing us on how well we were all to behave on the outing. Lenora kept looking for signs RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 of measles or chicken pox or something to keep us boys home, but nobody had caught anything, when Saturday, with more blue sky and sunshine than it knew what to do with, finally came. 'The only thing that spoiled everything was the way — we had to dress up, just because we were guests of the old Jacksons. Papa walked up and down inspecting us, and he kept saying, "I wouldn't have known they were mine. Aren't they a handsome lot when they're shined and dressed up?" Mama laughed the way she always does when she thinks Papa is teasing, but Lenora was jittery as a hot teakettle. She had a new dress with a hobble skirt. "There isn't a yard around the bottom of that skirt," Mrs. Cherry said indignantly. "If you walk fast, you'll fall down and break your neck." "A lady doesn't walk fast," Lenora answered loftify. It was a pretty blue color like Lenora's eyes, but I liked Mama's fuller skirt at the bottom a little better. Mama and Lenora both wore their hair in high puffy "pompadours," they called them, and it took some balancing to get their great big feathered and flowered hats on top of all that hair. But in no time they were pinned down and ready to go. Mama stopped and looked at Lenora. "I believe that boned collar is going to make red marks," but Lenora said she could stand it all right. It was something to see the little tiny steps she had to take to get anywhere at all. We rode in the carriage with the youngest ones in the middle for safety's sake, as Papa said. We left the carriage a short distance from where we caught the train. Papa decided we were early for once, and it wouldn't hurt to walk around the block to the station. "Come on, now, keep up, don't dawdle." But the excitement of many things to look at was too much for Arthur. He = slipped and _ fell, sprawling in the muddy gutter at the edge of the walk. Papa fished him out, but even we boys felt Arthur had gone too far. We could never take him on a train in the condition he was in. Papa prided himself on his great self-control, even though it often made his face go almost purple. Mama rubbed at Arthur's face and hands with her handkerchief, more to comfort him than to actually repair the damage. Lenora was the one we all stared at. Her eyes filled with tears, and her shoulders began to shake. Papa looked very worried when he saw Lenora. "There, there."" He patted her on the shoulder. "We'll fix this up in a jiffy," indicating Arthur, held gingerly at arm's length, "and we can still catch that train." Waddops Mercantile sprang to attention for Papa when he explained our haste, though there were still many curious stares for all of us to ignore. Arthur's shoes were wiped off and saved, but most of his other clothes were wrapped up in a big brown bundle, and Arthur appeared shining and spic and span in all the new clothes Papa bought. Mama worried about the expense, but Papa said we couldn't have the day spoiled. We had a terrible time making it back to the train in time. Lenora's skirt was an abomination, Papa declared, and he threatened to pick her up and carry her, but we finally got there in time. The train ride was a great lark, and not a single thing happened except Teddy threw up, and in the excitement we almost went right past Rainbow Springs. Lenora declared that everyone smelled oddly, though Mama said not a bit had got on anyone. "Anyway," Papa said, "the fresh air will blow the odor away. AINBOW Springs was the most exciting place to go in the whole country. 'The swimming was the best part, but you could buy stuff, and there were concessions and sideshows that Mama said not to waste our money on. But they turned out to be very disappointing, mostly tricks, though there was a real midget. After swimming, we were all to go back to the Bowery for a big picnic lunch. 'Teddy got lost, and Papa went to hunt for him, so we were really hungry by the time we finally got to eat. Especially after Mr. Jackson went to find Papa, and then we all had to wait ages for him, which Papa said was very unfortunate. Mrs. Jackson piled our plates with the most delicious fried chicken I had ever eaten. Everything would have been wonderful except Lenora kept acting so silly, and Edgar was almost as bad. They sat by each other, and each time Edgar got her anything she would blush and giggle, and then Mr. Jackson would say something, and she would blush some more. THE DAY WE ALL WENT TO RAINBOW SPRINGS 19 20 I thought Papa would surely straighten her out when we got home, but he just gave her an occasional sad kind of look. Pretty soon, though, he cheered up, and Mrs. Jackson got out the biggest cake you ever saw all decorated up like Valentine's Day only Valentine's Day ls ages away. At the sight of the cake, Lenora just buried her face in her hands and wouldn't look at anyone, though her cheeks were as rosy as anything where you could see them. Even Edgar looked sillier than I've ever seen him. APA cleared his throat and said a little explanation ought to be forthcoming for the benefit of the boys, and Mama said, "Yes, dear, but it isn't going to happen for a long time yet. Hey have permission just to be engaged, but there's no thought of marrying yet...." "Tll make the announcement," Papa said firmly, but it was too late. We stared dumbfounded at Edgar. Was he really crazy enough to want to marry Lenora? She was pretty all right, but what did he want with a wife? He had a real automobile with all those parts. Teddy ran over and jumped in Lenora's lap, sandy shoes and all, and began to cry. "Wish her happiness, boys," Papa hissed at us, and we mumbled the "I wish you happiness" as best we could, while Lenora explained to Teddy that she was going to live at home for ages yet. She was just engaged. 'Teddy made us all feel kind of funny. It was getting late in the afternoon, so Papa and Mama and the Jacksons hustled us into getting ready to go home. Edgar thought, under the circumRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 stances, Lenora ought to ride home with him. After all, both his parents would be sitting right there with them. Mrs. Jackson tied one of her veils around Lenora because of the dust, and Mama took off her scarf and tied down Lenora's hat with it. We all watched enviously. When it was time to get in the car, Lenora's foot wouldn't go high enough because of her skirt. For a moment we thought Lenora might not get to ride in the automobile after all, but Edgar boosted her up. (Papa was going to, but Edgar beat him to it.) And then we were all off for home. I don't remember much about the train ride home, except it seemed funny without Lenora. I wondered if the others felt as mixed up as I did. Maybe our whole family would just melt away the way Lenora was doing. The day hadn't ended exactly right. I began to get a lump in my throat, so I went to sleep. There isn't anything else to tell except when we got home, Mrs. Cherry had a hot dinner all ready. Papa woke us up and made us eat, though we were getting tired of fried chicken. Papa told Mrs. Cherry the chicken was excellent, though somewhat scrawny. Not much meat. It was my turn to help at the table. Just as I was going into the pantry, I heard Mama say, "Mrs. Cherry, where did you get those chickens you cooked?" "Out of your garden, that's where," said Mrs. Cherry proudly. "I caught those two prancing, ugly roosters that's pestered us to pieces and cooked their goose, if you know what I mean...." Mama looked faint. "We won't mention this to Papa, at least not THE DAY WE ALL WENT TO RAINBOW SPRINGS 21 until morning. There's no sense in was surprised to find I wasn't nearly so sleepy anymore even though it had been a real long important day, I went back to the table, and I going to Rainbow Springs and all. Spoiling his sleep tonight." _ Ji s a Tew Year Helen S. Williams | is a magic in the thought of newness. Old grudges, bad habits, foolish fears, old troubles can fade and pass into nothingness because the year is new. If met a day at a time, each hour of the twenty-four may not be difficult. One can be charitable, courageous, spiritual for one hour, one day at a time. "Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself"... (Matthew 6:34). Believe in yourself. You are made in God's image. Unless there is sincere belief of your own worth in the scheme of life, you will deprive yourself and your fellow men of the gifts that God has given to you. Do not hide your talents, for to some are given one and to others many. Everyone has a contribution to make to life if he believes in himself. "Have I not commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest (Joshua 1:9). Remember that those you love, probably love you. Know joy in the assurance that you are needed and wanted. As you give service, love, and friendliness in your own particular way, they will return unto you tenfold. "Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ" (Galatians 6:2). Seek for the good in others, and if you come to someonce's defense, a part of your heart reaches out to that person and stays with him forever and ever, and thus your own soul is enriched. "Judge not, and ye shall not be judged" (Luke 6:37). Endeavor to be a peacemaker. Small deeds may create peace—a prayer, a handclasp to one who is lonely, a smile in place of a frown, a gentle voice instead of loudness or sharpness of tongue, praise to one discouraged, and sincere attention rather than indifference. "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God" (Matthew 5:9). It's a New Year! The old one, with its cares and disappointments, has passed beyond recall; repent of broken resolutions, the heartbreaks of yesteryear; they are now in God's keeping. He will understand and forgive. If we begin anew, the memories and blessings of the past will help to give strength, beauty, and purpose to the year ahead. It will be made up of hours, days, and months. A little at a time, with our Father in heaven to guide and give light so that the pilgrimage through the New Year will be joyous. It is your year. Keep the magic of its newness ever alive. Keep faith in yourself, in your fellow men, and in your Father in heaven. "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen" (Hebrews 11:1). Aan White With Silence Christie Lund Coles Winter is a white swan No gawdy bird compares Poised upon the lake, To this, unsullied, now: Lifting a queenly throat White, white with silence For pure beauty's sake. And impervious snow. She Swadishe Ti lessaan Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian T the October conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in 1849, Erastus Snow, a member of the Council of the 'Twelve, was called to open a mission for the Church "in the Scandinavian countries." Two elders, Peter O. Hansen and John E. Forsgren, were chosen to accompany him. These brethren made their way across the plains eastward in the winter and endured severe hardships. It was not until June 14, 1850, that they arrived in Copenhagen, Denmark, and began their labors. John E. Forsgren was a native of Sweden, and shortly after his arrival in Denmark he made his way to Gavle, Sweden, to visit members of his family whom he had not seen for several years. It was there at Gavle, on July 26, 1850, about a month after his arrival, that he baptized his brother, Peter Adolf Forsgren, the first convert to join the Church in that land. Elder Forsgren labored diligently and baptized a few more converts, when he was seized by the police and banished from his native country for teaching the Mormon doctrines, there being no religious liberty in Sweden at that time. However, in 1853, successful missionary work was Svenska Turisttrafikforbundet Submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist FLUSS ABISKOJOKK IN THE LAPPLAND HIGHLANDS, SWEDEN Page 22 THE SWEDISH MISSION 23 Hovfotograf Bertil Norberg Submitted by Ethel E. Blomquist THE CASTLE OF BORGHOLM, ISLAND OF OLAND, SWEDEN carried on in southern Sweden, by Elder Anders W. Winberg, and on April 24th of that year, the first branch of the Church in Sweden was organized by Elder Winberg at Skonaback. A short time later a small branch was organized at Malmo. The work has continued since that time and has been extended to all parts of the country. Sweden comprised an important part of the Scandinavian Mission until 1905, when it was made a separate mission, Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, computed in 1930, that from the time missionary work began in Sweden until 1930, 19,147 persons had been baptized, of whom 8,545 had emigrated to Utah. In August 1957 there were 2,404 members of the Church in Sweden, located in thirty-six branches. Harry T. Oscarson is the mission president. Forty Relief Society organizations, with 535 members, were reported in December 1956. Ruth T. Oscarson presides over the Swedish Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Summer Sunset, Magelungen Lake, Near Stockholm, Sweden," was submitted by the former President of the Swedish Mission Relief Society, Ethel E. Blomquist. The photograph was taken by Eben J. Blomquist, Jr. Sce also "Recipes From the Swedish Mission," by Ruth 'I'. Oscarson, page 38. Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 1 FTER the funeral the family returned to Fred's ranch house, six cars full of them. The emotional strain of burying Elizabeth, eldest and best-loved sister, had left them all somewhat drained of feeling, and hungry. The neighboring ranch women had brought in great casseroles of food, kept hot in Elizabeth's big oven, cakes and pies and loaves of fragrant, homemade bread. Now Elizabeth's sisters and sisters-in-law bustled about, setting out the food and dishes, while the men gathered in small knots, talking in low tones. The visiting children, released from the solemnity of the preceding hours, scattered in play. All but Elizabeth's four, Carol noticed. They sat on the lower steps of the broad stairs in a small, disconsolate group, and watched the activity about them with wide, solemn eyes. Carol detached herself from the other women and went to the children. She put an arm around Trudy, the golden-haired four-yearold, and Becky, her six-year-old sister. The little girls snuggled against their aunt, longing for the comfort of motherly arms. Over their heads, Carol smiled gently at Kathy and Steve, whose efforts to be brave and calm were obvious in set lips and carefully controlled movements. "Shall we sneak out and take a little walk?" Carol asked. "I remember a place by the siver that is cool and green in the summer. It must be pretty now that the leaves Page 24 are turning. I'l make us a little lunch and we'll slip down there and eat it by ourselves. Okay?" Relief leaped into Kathy's eyes, dimmed instantly by doubt. "Will it be all right? Daddy said we ought to...." "Your daddy won't care. I'll speak to him. You youngsters go upstairs and take off your nice clothes. Slip into everyday clothes and sweaters while I get the lunch ready." The four children scampered up the stairs and Carol smiled. It was the first quick, spontaneous movyement she had seen them make since her arrival last night. Poor little tykes, she thought compassionately. They've had so much sympathy poured out upon them that they are drenched—sodden. Tl get them away by themselves for awhile. She spoke softly to their father, "Fred, I'm taking the children out for a little walk. They have to be alone...." Fred nodded, his eyes clouded. "Thanks, Carol." He glanced across the room filled with people. "I'd like to slip away somewhere, myself." "T know, Fred," Carol's voice was sympathetic, "but they'll be going soon and then...." "Then [ll be really alone—alone for the rest of my life." His tone was somber. "Not alone, Fred. You have the children...." Before she could say more, her ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN brother Louis joined them. Carol turned and went into the kitchen. She began putting sandwiches together. "What are those for, Carol?" her mother asked, watching her. CAROL looked at her mother. How she had aged in the past days! Elizabeth's death had put years upon that gray head. Elizabeth, her mother's darling and mainstay—the eldest child, who had stood beside her mother during the years of childbearing, taking over a large part of the care of each child as a new one came into the family. But, then, Elizabeth had married and gone away, and somehow—Carol never had known how—the eldest sister's mantle had fallen upon the youngest's shoulders. Somehow, it had slipped past the two brothers and the two sisters between, and lighted firmly upon Carol. "Tm going to take the children for a walk, Mother,' Carol explained. "They don't feel like playing with their cousins and they're lost here among the grownups. I'm going to take them down to the river bank, where it's quiet." Her mother's sad eyes held memories. "Elizabeth loved the river," she began and stopped, her lips trembling. Carol went quickly and gave her mother's shoulders a hug. She bent and kissed the smooth brow. "We'll be back before dark. Don't worry about us." She thrust bottles of milk, sandwiches, fruit into the ample picnic basket and went to get an old blanket. Kathy, still solemn, but with eagerness in her dark eyes, was leading her small sisters downstairs. Ys) Steve strutted ahead, aware of his eight-year-old importance. Carol handed Steve the blanket and picked up the picnic basket. They went out of the back door, and Carol felt the eyes of the other women upon her. She knew what they were thinking— there goes Carol, off on her own, as usual! Trudy and Becky had dashed ahead, and Kathy came to her aunt's side. "I'm glad we could come away," she said in her serious, trying-to-be-adult voice. "Becky and Trudy don't understand..." and the big sister's voice broke. Carol put her arm about the thin shoulders. "That's one thing to be grateful for, darling!" she whispered. They found the grassy spot Carol remembered. How often she had sought the peace of this little nook when she had come at Elizabeth's call for help. Now the gold and red of autumn-tinted trees made a splash of color, reflected back from the smooth water of the slowly moving stream. Across the small river, towering snow-capped against the blue Wyoming sky, the three sharp peaks of the Tetons stood like silent, everlasting sentinels. Carol's artist soul rejoiced in the exquisite coloring and the tranquil majesty of the scene. She spread the blanket and opened the lunch basket. The children were ravenous, for they, perhaps even more than their elders, had been drained by the experiences of the past days. They devoured sandwiches and milk and cake. When they had eaten all they could hold, they stretched out in the late afternoon sunlight, replete and quiescent. "Tell us a story, Aunt Carol Steve demanded.?! 26 What story? Carol thought swiftly. It should be something gentle and happy, but she couldn't think of one that suited her. So she made one up—a story about the valley and the mountains and the trappers who had loved the spot. She omitted the savagery and misery and death that had been suffered there, and the place emerged as one of happiness and beauty and the quiet pursuit of a way of life. HE sun was low when Carol finished, and the children stirred and got to their feet, ready now to go back to the house and the crowd of visitors. Carol was gratified at the serenity that had treplaced the troubled stiffness in the children's faces. Perhaps she had done a little good for these children whom she loved almost as if they were her own. She caught herself up sharply. They were not her own. They were Elizabeth's and Fred's. She must not start thinking of them otherwise. Back at the house, the others had eaten and cleared away the debris of the meal. They were all in the living room, and as Carol entered with Elizabeth's children she was conscious of the sudden silence that cut off the flow of conversation. So they were discussing her— or the children. 'They, the family, were settling things among themselves, as they always had settled them, involving her because she was not married, but not consulting her because she was the youngest. She nodded at them all brightly, and saw how the children were gathered to one aunt or another as the flow of conversation leaped the barrier of embarrassment and began again. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 An hour later Carol spoke to Kathy. "Hadn't we better get the little folks to bed, Kathy?" The child smiled up at her aunt, proud of being called upon to help. "Yes," she agreed, "Trudy's almost asleep now." They gathered the children and went upstairs. In the big, old-fashioned bathroom they gave the two little girls a warm bath, slipped on their night clothes, and took them into the bedroom, relinquishing the bathroom to Steve. Carol sat down in Elizabeth's low rocker, and 'Trudy, looking like an angel in her soft, white nightgown, her golden curls damp on her forehead, climbed up on her aunt's lap. Becky knelt to say her prayers, her pigtailed brown head pressed close against Carol's knee. She began, "Dear Father in heaven, bless Daddy and Mommy..." and stopped suddenly, choking, remembering. She dug her fist into her eyes. Carol bent over the little girl, caressing her gently. "Go on, Becky." The child gulped and went on with her usual nightly worship. Carol's heart was beating painfully. What if she hadn't been there? Would someone else have known just what to say? Her own mother would probably have broken down and sobbed. Fred's mother would have spoken harshly, covering her own sorrow by briskness. Carol's fingers stroked the brown head. She had to admit it—she understood Elizabeth's children better than anyone else! She shook her head firmly. She was being sentimental —and that, too, was not good for the children. ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN Steve came in from the bath, and Carol heard his and 'Trudy's prayers and tucked them into their beds. She glanced at Kathy. The tenyear-old would have to assume a good deal of responsibility now. Why not let her feel her acceptance into the adult group? "Do you want to stay up another hour, Kathy? We could sit on the porch and talk." Kathy's smile was shining. Yes, Aunt Carol. I'd like to." They went downstairs together, Carol's arm about the girl's shoulders, two people bound together by ties of love and understanding. 'They by-passed the living room with its hum of conversation, and went out the side door onto the wide porch that ran around the ranch house. They selected a spot where they could look out upon the moondrenched mountains, and sat in silence for a few minutes. ATHY spoke first. "You're going away tomorrow, Aunt Carol?" "Yes, Kathy," Carol answered gently. "I have to go. 'There's my job in the city—so many things piled up on my desk. You know about my work, Kathy?" The child nodded. "Yes. Of course. Mommy always got the magazines with your paintings on the cover. We have them all, I guess." Carol's arm drew the little girl closer. "Well, then, you know that I have to paint one of those covers every month—and I'm almost to my deadline now. Then I'm illustrating a book—a book about a little girl your age who loved to dance. When it is finished, I am going to send you a copy...." "Oh, 27 Kathy's train of thought wasn't diverted. "It's going to be awfully lonesome...." "Grandma Trent will be here with you. She wants to stay—and it will give her a home. She loves you children and your daddy." "T love Grandma 'Trent, and Grandma Wilson, too," Kathy said slowly, "but they're too old to be mothers..." and suddenly she could contain her anguish no longer. She bent over, burrowing her head in Carol's lap, sobbing. Carol held her close, letting the grief wash out. Finally, when the child was a little calmer, her aunt began, "I know how you feel, Kathy. It is hard to lose someone we love. You know, I loved your mother, too—we all did. And we are all grieved. But these things have to be faced—death as well as life." Kathy was listening, her sobs stilled. "You know, darling, Aunt Carol lost someone very dear to her —a young man she had promised to marry. He was killed in a shocking car accident—it seemed so needless... 2" Her voice trailed off, remembering her own anguish at the loss, at the realization of the futility of dreams. Kathy raised her tear-stained face. "Oh," she breathed, "he would have been my uncle! I know I have other uncles, but he would have been special, wouldn't he? Belonging to you!" 'Then, after a moment of thought, "But you didn't get over it, did you, Aunt Carol?" Carol was startled. All day she had been trying to help the children over this difficult time until they got over the worst of their sorrow. And the little girl had understood, and now, with one sentence had re- 28 futed her aunt's hope. Carol felt she couldn't let this pass. "In a way you're right, darling. In a way I haven't got over it, as you say. I think a person never gets over a true, deep love. And I think one shouldn't want to. For love is a treasure to be held dear and sacred. But the grief—the bitter grief —I have got over that, Kathy." "Then why haven't you married someone else, Aunt Carol?" Carol shook her head. So the child had heard the others talking! Well, she should be answered, and honestly. "T don't know. I've just never found anyone that I thought could take his place." "And we'll never find anyone to take Mommy's place, either!" Kathy cried, the tears springing to her eyes again. Carol was shocked. Of course there never was anyone to take a dearly beloved person's place. But this child should not be left without a ray of hope. "Of course not, Kathy. You wouldn't want anyone to take your mother's place. But there is someone, somewhere, who can take her very own place in your life—another mother—not Elizabeth, of course, but someone you'll love for her own self. Someone who will love you." And somehow, unbidden, there flashed into Carol's mind the look on the face of Brent Gibson as he had told her goodby at the airport yesterday. She didn't have time to wonder at this. Kathy flung her arms around her aunt's neck. "You, Aunt Carol!" she cried passionately, "you are the only one!" Carol drew back, involuntarily. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 "No!" she whispered. "Not me, Kathy! Not me!" The little girl's arms dropped. She drew back, rejected, her face stiff. Carol drew her close again, and said softly, her lips against Kathy's hair. "Listen, darling. I do love you dearly, all of you. But it is not for me to come into your home and take over the rearing of you children. It's a responsibility that I'm not qualified to meet. And your Grandmother Trent will be here— she needs a home, and she has reared children—your Daddy. She knows the things that I don't know. Oh, Kathy, darling! It just isn't possible!" AROL couldn't, even in her own mind, balance her love for Elizabeth's children against her love of her work, her love of freedom that she had won after such a struggle. She couldn't say, even to herself, "Mrs. Trent can care for these children—but no one, no one can do my job!" Kathy's thin body was stiff in her aunt's arms. "I know," she said resignedly. "I guess Pll go up to bed now, Aunt Carol." Carol let her go. If she stays, the woman thought, I'll give in. Even if Mrs. Trent wouldn't want me here, I''d soon be ready to beg for the chance to stay. But I'm not going to stay. I had a hard enough time breaking away, getting a chance to live my own life. She bent forward, her elbows on her knees, her hands pressed tight against her burning eyelids. Why was her heart torn with this anguish? Why couldn't she throw away her job, her painting, without ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN a thought—even of Brent Gibson's dismay at. The news that he was losing his top artist? Or, failing that, why couldn't she turn her back on Elizabeth's children — carelessly, without worry? The tears squeezed through her lashes and wet her fingers. Oh, my dear, lost love! She thought. If only you had been spared — if only I had you and chil- 29 and she thought she could feel the question in the air. "PII tell you all goodby now," she said quietly. "I'll be leaving before you're up in the morning...." "Not before I'm up!" Fred said firmly. "I'm going to drive you to the airport." "Thanks, Fred." She went to her mother and kissed her. "Goodby, Mother. Ill be home for a week-end soon." And _ she went swiftly up the stairs before anyone could find the words to stop her. Dren of our own, then I would be at peace. She rose at last, slowly, wearily, and went into the living room. They She Mlarch of Dimes for 1958 Basil O'Connor President, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis WIDESPREAD use of the Salk vaccine, made possible by March of Dimes funds, has already protected millions of Americans against the appalling paralysis of polio. But the polio fight is far from finished. Not only do large segments of the public still lack this protection, but there still remain 300,000 victims of past polio attacks, many of whom — children in particular — can be restored by modern medical science to lives of usefulness and_productivity. With victory in sight, we cannot walk off the battlefield and abandon the wounded. That is why our theme for this year's March of Dimes is "Survival Is Not Enough." Survival is not enough for these thousands and thousands of youngsters and adults desperately disabled by polio. And we know that survival is not enough for the millions of Americans whose bottomless wells of human sympathy and understanding will be called upon in the 1958 March of Dimes. And that is why we are appealing to you to help keep the old polio patient from being made invisible by our success against new cases. It thus becomes the principal job of the 1958 March of Dimes to bring hope and usefulness to the tens of thousands of polio-stricken children and adults who can benefit from modern care and rehabilitation. These are the ones who cannot be abandoned or forgotten; we cannot go on to new tasks until we finish the one at hand. When you give to the March of Dimes, you give meaning and purpose to the lives you helped to save. All looked up at her as she came in, (To be continued) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NartIons" POLYNESIA: Polynesia, or the region of many islands, is the name usually given... To the numerous groups of islands and some few single islands scattered throughout the great Pacific ocean between the eastern shores of Asia and the western shores of America.... The principal groups of Polynesia are... The Sandwich Islands, Tonga, or the Friendly Islands, the Marquesas group and many other scattered islands.... Most of the islands and especially the largest are volcanic in their origin, and some are coraline. 'The volcanic islands some of which have peaks varying in height from one to fourteen thousand feet are often distinguished as the high islands.... The islands of coraline formation are low and generally small.... —Emma Jenson A VISIT TO SUMMIT STAKE:... In Rock Springs, Wyoming, we are cordially met by the president of the Relief Society and the Bishop's wife and several others... And we must here express our pleasure at the nice little meeting house that the Saints own in this far off settlement.... At 2 p. M. We hold a Relief Society meeting.... At Evanston we are met by the Relief Society president and others. We go to the president's home for dinner and then to a meeting.... And each time how it makes our hearts swell with gratitude to our Heavenly Father for his goodness to His people, for here again is another cosy meeting house and some good sisters. We have a profitable meeting, then go to Almy.... We are taken to Bishop Boun's home by his whole-souled wife. It is a comfortable home situated on the side of a hill overlooking the whole place and has the loveliest garden.... We call on several sisters then at 2 p. M., we hold meetings again.... There were several other settlements we were to visit, but the season being so far advanced... It was deemed wisdom to postpone it until a future time. —Jennie A TWILIGHT REVERIE I'm sitting in the twilight, the sweetest hour of all, The hour when day is dying and dusk begins to fall.... The past within my memory locked, holds all its charm for me. The future dim, uncertain, calls silently from afar, With faith and love for a motto, and hope for a guiding star. —Ethel B. Ferguson THE NEW YEAR 1898: This people did not come into these valleys with the expectation of great wealth, on the contrary they came from religious motives, and that they might have a safe abiding place for themselves and those who desired to gather with them to build up Zion, and endeavor to keep the commandments of God. And year after year their number and possessions have increased; they have extended their borders and built up towns and cities, temples and institutions of learning, and made the waste places beautiful, and the land a delight to all.... —Editorial Page 30 RS. BELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of the Relief Society, was honored October 31, 1957, by the Utah State Conference on Social Welfare. At a luncheon meeting, Mrs. Spafford was made a life member of this organization in recognition of her contribution to the field of human welfare. UEEN ELIZABETH II of Great Britain opened the Canadian Parliament October 14, 1957, the first monarch ever to perform this function. She wore her white satin, jewel-encrusted coronation gown. Later, she spent six days in Eastern United States. In both countries she won the hearts of the people. Still youthful, beautiful, charming, and radiant, she is regarded as having grown in strength and self-assurance since her accession to the throne. Expressing her desire for world peace, she extended encouragement to the United Nations and others working toward that end. ISS BABINGTON-SMITH, a granddaughter of the ninth Earl of Elgin, named by President Truman as "the outstanding Allied authority on the interpretation of photographs of aircraft," is the author of Air Spy, a book which describes her outstanding work during World War IT. Harper and Brothers are the publishers. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MBs. BERTHA A. KLEINMAN, of Mesa, Arizona, eighty years old, received a great tribute when Governor Ernest W. McFarland proclaimed November 4, 1957, as "Bertha Kleinman Day," throughout the State. The proclamation referred to Mrs. Kleinman's efforts in behalf of the cultural and spiritual life of Arizona through her years of "warm and unselfish service to the church and her community."" Nationally recognized for her work in the fields of pageantry and poetry, she has written many pageants for the Church. She will be especially remembered for the pageant "The Message of the Ages," presented in Utah and other places in 1930, commemorating the latter-day organization of the Church and, in 1947, at the great Centennial celebration. RS. MILLICENT TRALLE, Chaplain, El Paso District Texas Woman's Press Association, has written a prayer for press women, lines of which are: "Help us... To learn and know the truth and to report it with fairness and consideration. Help us ever to remember the power of the pen and to employ it for constructive purposes only. Help us to expend the rich heritage that is ours as women toward building the Kingdom of Heaven on earth," Page 3] CQ-> EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 45 JANUARY 1958 NO. 1 She Value of Sime Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion; for, lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day, and shall be my people. Wit the coming of the New Year, treasures of time are again given to us, and the door of another year is opened wide. It is a time for contemplation of the use which will be made of the days which lie before us, which are a part of our life span upon the earth, and therefore precious to us. No one should wish to waste a single hour in the cycle of time, and the choice of the way in which time is spent is of such importance to each of us, and to the many others whose life pathways are crossed with ours, that a thoughtful consideration should be given to our allocation of the hours that compose the days and the years. For women who are homemakers and wives and mothers, for these privileged and blessed women, the allotment of a large part of available time is set by the responsibilities attendant upon these blessings, and the woman who would be wise enough to place first things first, will find within her household the duties which will require a large part of her time. She will, perhaps, find it necessary to classify the duties which are essential, those which are desirable, and those of questionable worth. It may be that when these duties are measured in the mind of the homemaker, she will be able to place emphasis upon those tasks Page 32.. (Zechariah 2:10-11). Which have a lasting benefit for her family and minimize the activities which are only temporary in value. It often happens that an activity which may not seem to have a rich reward for the moment, may in time to come be a remembered and precious experience to all participants. A walk with a child, viewing the springtime world, and talking only of flowers and grass and the Heavenly Father who made them, may be a permanent link of fulfillment between mother and child. 'The Family Hour, when the parents and the children unite in an expression of their talents and their love and consideration for each other; the holiday in the summer hills, when the family finds contentment together — these are hours rich in values beyond the time of their first satisfactions. Since we are the custodians of our own time, the reckoning must be made from a full heart and a grateful spirit — a rejoicing because of the days given to us, but also a weighing of our use of them. Time and the ability to labor are the capital stock of the whole world of mankind, and we are all indebted to God for the ability to use time to advantage, and he will require of us a strict account of the disposition we make of this ability; and he will not only require an account of our acts, but our words and our thoughts will also be brought into judg- EDITORIAL ment (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 301). It is for her own benefit here and hereafter, and for the blessing of her children, that a woman may be grateful for opportunities which the Church offers in many fields of personal development and service to others. It is our duty and our privilege as sisters to teach each other the gospel and to comfort and encourage each other; it is our blessed opportunity to teach each other's children in the Auxiliary organizations, and to have our children nurtured in a_ heritage of spiritual wealth. The woman who contributes part of her time to Church service and to her own organization, the Relief Society, is twice blessed: through her own efforts, she enjoys the lasting satisfactions of the giver; and through the teachings and inspiration of others, she is blessed as a recipient. 'The value of time, then, is doubled, and the enlightenment becomes a treasure to be kept for all the future days in all time. The gifts of the years are richly given to those who find uplifting thoughts and health for body and 33 mind in the natural world around us, in the seasons as they turn upon the earth, in plantings and harvests; in the far mountains and deserts, and in the quiet hills of home. 'The treasures of the arts, both for participation and appreciation, are jewels of time available to us — for our choice. Even within her own home, even with her children around her, a woman may explore the wide and radiant fields of music, history, literature, painting, handicrafts; and she may apply her knowledge in these to make her home more harmonious and the lives of her children as varied as the world is generous in its offerings to those who seek for the true riches of time. In her home a woman may share the great books with her family. She may read the Bible to her children. Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The Lord is his name... (Amos 5:8). —V. P. C. Swo Ussitors Hazel M. Thomson A kindly soul came to the home, On a sad, heartbreaking day. She shook the hands and talked with folks, In a sympathetic way. And in soft tones she said to them, Before she turned to go, "If there is anvthing I can do, Be sure and let me know." Another came, to this same house, Entered quietly at the docr, Washed the dishes, made a pie, And finally scrubbed the floor. And when she ieft, no one recalled, Though they knew it to be true, That she had never even asked, If there was anything she could do. Notes TO THE FIELD Relicf Society Assigned &vening Meeting of Fast Sunday in Mlarch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 2, 1958, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. A suggestive program for this meeting is being sent to the stakes in pamphlet form. It is suggested that ward Relief | Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Suggested songs for the Singing Mothers are "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy," by Evan Stephens, and "Forth in Thy Name, O Lord, I Go," by Schumann. If this music is not available in your local stores, it may be purchased from music dealers advertising in this issue of the Magazine. Award Subscriptions Preoseried tn April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1957 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1958. Bound Volumes of 19057 Mlagazines RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1957 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 71.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.50, including the index. A limited number of the 1957 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Sonicty, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stalls have one volume of the 1957 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Page 34 I Fireside Chat Burning' Question A Sireside Chat on a Burning Question i IRE is man's friend; it can be his foe. It is heat for his home, energy for his machines; refiner and purifier of coarse materials; source of light. The word itself — "fire" — is rich in symbolism: fired with imagination; fired with enthusiasm; fired with inspiration; fired with faith. A beautiful compound of the word is flireside — symbol of home, hospitality, friendship. To thousands of young people, "Fireside" means something special: a Sabbath evening spent with young neighbors in pleasant, prayerful discussion and song. All these are positive aspects of fire. But it has negative connotations Page <5 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 and destructive powers, also. It can mean — or bring — danger, destruction, death. Four hundred billion times a year in America someone kindles a destructive fire — with the strike of a match or the flick of a lighter to start a cigarette. That's "playing with fire" — fire of the most dangerous kind. In the process, millions of Americans are "getting burned" — not a few of them fatally — for the cigarette is now known by scientific research as well as through revelation to be a deadly foe of health, vitality, and long - life. To quote Dr. Alton Ochsner, one of the world's most eminent cancer specialists: "Tobacco is a loaded, often lethal, weapon. Time pulls the trigger." Most other unbiased medical researchers and practicing physicians now agree. Light up? Just a minute, young friend! That's the wrong road! _ It's the way to bad luck: bad breath, bad taste, bad throat, bad lungs, bad nerves, bad heart. The road to good luck for youth and adults is to know and heed what inspired religious leaders, as well as today's informed scientists, tell us about tobacco and what we ought to do about it — shun it for the deadly poison it is. This is wisdom — and what rich and wonderful rewards come from acting wisely. So — to good friends at the fireside — and all others everywhere — beware of false promises of pleasures from tobacco. 'These promised pleasures are nothing but "pipe dreams." 'They can't come true. Rather, be informed, be smart, be obedient— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF. Here Ys a Winter Now Helen H. Winn There were the winters, and I knew them well— The crush of snow in mold of mittened hands, Fluff on the tongue, the clean transparent smell, The steam of breath, the numbness when one stands Too long, that creeps through rubber-booted feet And sends them finally through tracks of white To seek a gratifying warm retreat And curl in woolen blankets for the night. There is a winter now outside the door That I have tightly shut against the cold. I cannot make snow angels anymore, Or build a fort with snowballs I have rolled. Winter has lost its friendliness somehow— There is a pane of glass between us now. Biographical Shetches of Contest Wrnners Helen Candland Stark, Wilmington, Delaware, a graduate of Brigham Young University, submits the following account of her interests and activities: "he eldest of nine children, I grew up summers in Sanpete County, Utah, and winters in Provo. I taught Knglish and speech in high school, and was a member of the faculty of Brigham Young University when I married Dr. Henry Stark, a chemist for the DuPont Company, and we came East to live. We have scen a nucleus of two or three families grow into a branch of the Church large cnough to build a chapel. Our older son and daughter are freshmen at Brigham Young University, and our youngest child is a junior in high school. We live on a five-acre lot, where we enjoy following the scasons with seed and harvest. In the community I have been active in little theater groups and as a speaker on litcrary and religious subjects. For several years 1 have edited a Church branch newsletter." Lac] W. Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, was born in Oregon to Parley and Maryhale Woolsey. She began writing as a child and madc her first sale to The Improvement Era. Her work has appeared in many national magazines, anthologics, and newspapers. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, the Art Barn Poets, Utah Poetry Society, and Poets of the Pacific. Her stories and pocms have reccived several outstanding awards, including The Deseret News prize Christmas story in 1952. In addition to writing, Mrs. Hill keeps house, sews, illustrates books, and takes care of four children, two big boys and two little girls. Her husband is Udell Hill. Mrs. Hill says that the members of her family have appeared many times in her writings. She tells us that her poem 'Song of the Weathervanes" grew from the cover of The Relief Society Magazine for July 1956. Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, is the wife of DeWitt Bailey, mother of four children and grandmother to six. Her pocms and storics have appeared in many magazines and newspapers and have received prizes for their outstanding artistry. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, the Utah Sonneteers, the Associated Utah Artists, hostorian of the Utah Poetry Socicty, and is a member of the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts, appointed to represent sculpture by two successive governors. She serves in this position as a member of the Art Committcc, charter member of the Original Writing Contest, and Utah State Symphony Board member. She is Supervisor of the Research Report Service, a branch of co-operative research, at the Unversity of Utah. Since the age of twelve, she has been active in the Auxiliaries of the Church. The last two years she has devoted much time to writing two volumes of the history of her family. She is now resuming her work in marble carving at the Uni versity of Utah. Deone Robinson Sutherland, Oalland, California, tells us that she 'graduated from the University of Utah in 1945, where I was editor of The Pen and active in the theater. I have continued writing on and off since then, and enjoy it as a hobby when the children are napping or in bed for the night. My husband, Dr. Harold Pratt Sutherland, and I have three wonderful children, two boys and a girl, eight, four, and cightcen months. We have lived in nine different wards since our marriage in the Salt Lake Temple ten years ago. In the past I have been ward and stake drama director, taught the literature lessons for five years in Relief Society, and am now beginning my second year as First Counselor in the Primary presidency of Oakland Fourth Ward. I was born in Salt Lake City, and grew up in Granger, Utah, where my parents now lime." Page 3/ Recipes JSrom Sweden Ruth T. Oscarson NE of the first words that you Jearn in the Swedish language is the word "Smorgas- "on said to have originated Jong ago at country g food. 'These dishes were then arranged on 2 long table around which the guests walked. Filling their plates. 'Vhe smorgasbord is still served buittet stvle, but it has been adapted to current tastes and is tfect harmony with food habits of today and may sometimes consist of only a few dishes. When lt varies greatly in size. Ways begins with bread. Butter. Pickled herring. Eating the Swedish smorgasbord. One al atoes. "Then other cold fish dishes are served, followed by cold meats i p it all off with cheese. The following recipes can all be used for Smorgasbord, or they may be served separately 3S dinnet oF juncheon dishes. KALops (Beef Stew ) > red or yellow onions, sliced > Ibs. Beef chuck 3 \ 10-15 whole allspice > tsp. Salt 14 tsp. White pepper > bav leaves > tbsp. Flour 2 c. Water Cut meat into thick slices OT large cubes and remove sinews. Pound with 4 t and peppe!: Brown butter in Dutch meat hammet and tum lm flour mixed with sal 1 sides, then add bay leaves and whole oven. Add meat and onions and brown on a allspice. I t. Simmet in a covered pan When ready. Place meat } potatoes and pickled beets oT Lingonberries. INLAGDA RopBETOR (Pickled Beets) so small beets > tsp. Salt 1 qt. Watet Dressing:. 1 c. Vinegat 4 tbsp. Sugat 1 clove 4 tbsp. Watet inch of stem. Place whole beets in Wash beets well and cut off leaves. Leaving an i] tender. Drain. Cool, peel: salted boiling water and cook twenty to forty minutes. Or unt in thin shi ace 1 dish. Mix vinegar, water, sugat, and clove a0 UcNsOMELETT (Baked Omelet) tsp. Salt dash of white peppet ogether with ecasoning and add cream. Pour mto 4 well-buttered ome- "A? 1 F.) for fifteen to twenty minutes. Jet pan oF baking dish. Bake m moderate OVER (9? I ide onto puttered saucepan and covet. Used, pour filling ovet omelet. Page 38 for about one and Slide one half onto hot platter. I jf baking dish is Filling for Omelet: 1 ean of lobster or shrimps 2 thsp. Flour (6% or 7 07. Can) 1% c. Cream and lobster or shrimp stock 2 tbsp. Butter salt and pepper to taste Cube fish meat. Melt butter in pan, add flour, and stir until well blended. Add cream and stock gradually while stirring. Simmer ten minutes, stirring occasionally, Remove from heat, add fish meat, and season. Reheat quickly. Serve in oinclet. SOCKERKAKSTARIA Mrp VANILJ KRAM (Tart With Vanilla Cream Filling ) 4 eggs % ¢. Potato flour or % c. Sugar % ¢. Flour minus 2 tbsp. 1 tsp. Baking powder and add 2 tbsp. % c. Flour cornstarch Sift flour with potato flour or cornstarch and baking powder. Beat cgg whites until stiff. Add sugar, egg yolks, and flour. Stir until well blended. Pour into well-buttered. Deep round cake pan or iron frying pan and bake in moderate oven (350° I.) for thirty minutes. Filling: 2 egg yolks 1 ¢. Cream 1% tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Vanilla extract % tbsp. Potato flour or cornstarch 2 tbsp. Sugar Mix all ingredients, except vanilla extract, in double boiler and cook until smooth and thick, stirring constantly. Remove from heat, add vanilla extract and beat occasion. Ally until cold. When cold, cut cake into two or three layers. Spread cach layer with filling and cover top evenly with icing. Decorate with jam by making two and one-half inch squares on top and spreading jam in every other one. Mark squarcs with whipped cream forced through a paper tube. Icing: 1 ¢. Powdered sugar % tbsp. Lemon juice 1% tbsp. Water Mix all ingredients of icing and stir until smooth. Intacp Sint. (Pickled Salt Herring) 1 large salt herring Dressing: "4 c. White vinegar 2 tbsp. Chopped onion 2 tbsp. Water 6 white peppercorns, crushed %" ¢. Sugar 6 whole allspice, crushed Garnish: chopped onion, chives, or dill Clean fish, removing head, and soak overnight in cold water. Bone and fillet. Cut in small slices, then slide spatula under slices and arrange like whole fish on glass plate, Mix ingredients for dressing and pour over fish. Garnish with chopped onion, chives, or dill, and leave two or three hours in refrigcrator. RECIPES FROM SWEDEN 39 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 CaRDAMOM BreEAD 8 c. Flour 1 egg 2% c. Lukewarm milk % tsp. Salt 2 pk. Dry yeast. % to lc. Melted butter 1 c. Sugar 15 to 20 cardamom seeds, pounded Dissolve yeast in one-half cup lukewarm milk. Mix remaining milk, sugar, egg, salt, butter, cardamom seeds, and small amount of flour; beat smooth. Add yeast and remaining flour, beating with wooden spoon until smooth and firm. Sprinkle dough with small amount of flour, and cover with a clean towel and let rise in a warm place until double in bulk, about two hours. 'Turn onto lightly floured baking board and knead until smooth. To shape the bread, take half of the dough, divide in two or three parts, and cut each part into three pieces of equal size. Roll with hands into long ropes and braid. Place on buttered baking sheet, cover, and let rise. Brush with slightly beaten egg. Sprinkle with sugar and chopped almonds and bake in moderate oven (375° F°.) for fifteen to twenty minutes. To shape cinnamon ring, shape half of remaining dough in roll. Sprinkle baking board with flour and roll dough out as thin as possible with rolling pin. Spread with melted butter and sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon, (Ground almonds may be substituted for cinnamon.) Roll dough jelly-roll fashion, beginning at long side, and join ends to form circle. Place in buttered baking pan or on sheet. Cut with scissors and let rise. Brush with slightly beaten egg and bake in moderate over (375° F.) for fifteen to twenty minutes. Note: Cut with scissors into one-inch slices almost through ring, then lay one slice toward the outside of ring, and the next slice toward the inside. Do this all around the ring. LucIAPEPPARKAKOR (Lucia Gingersnaps) 1% c. Heavy cream 1 tbsp. Lemon rind, grated 2% c. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Baking soda 1% c. Dark syrup 9 c. Flour 1 tbsp. Ginger Whip cream, add sugar, syrup, ginger, lemon rind, and baking soda and stir ten minutes. Add flour and work until smooth. Cover and leave in cool place overnight. Turn onto floured baking board and roll out thin. With floured cutters cut out heart-shaped cookies, Santa Claus, gingerbread men, houses, animals, or other desired figures. Brush with water and bake on a greased cookie sheet in slow oven (250° F.) for fifteen minutes. Leave on sheet to cool. ——<—- Poem for GYanuary Pansye H. Powell I put Christmas out today, Laid all the Christmas things away, But all the time I worked I sang And once again the carols rang. So Christmas didn't really go— It's lurking in my heart, I know! Merey Waters Peay opie and Memorizes Poetry MERCY W. PEAY MER Waters Peay, Provo, Utah, has written many lovely poems, representative of her life and her ideals. She recently celebrated her ninety-third birthday, having passed through many troubles and adversities, but she has retained a cheerful outlook on life, a youthful mind, and much wit and humor. Her motto is: "What can't be cured must be endured." In the late hours of December 1951, she lay in bed listening for sounds of the ushering in of the New Year. These lines came to her mind: Not a bell was rung, Not a song was sung, And thoughts were very few, When the old year just passed away And in came fifty-two. If we pause a moment just to think And listen to the tide, One more year has come and gone And crossed the Great Divide.... Her literary compositions, in addition to poetry, include a charming love story and many fine pieces of prose. She served in Relief Society for many years and was a beloved visiting teacher. She has always subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine. She is the mother of ten children, five of whom are still living. Her grandchildren number nine, and her greatgrandchildren eighteen. She still receives great joy by bringing sunshine and happiness into the lives of others. Winter Evelyn Fjeldsted Like a shadow winter reaches far. The days seem only half awake; And drifting into night are lost In darkness while the tempests break. The snow rides high on whistling winds, To destinations still urkknown. Distance calls to the wheeling gales To fly where birds have never flown. While tunneling through winter's length, The earth is warm beneath the frost; And wildest music thunders by— Melodies forever lost. Page 41 Potato Starch Making Alice R. Rich O the youthful truth seeker, a wide horizon sometimes opens and startling facts spring from the most common things we see around us every day. The widely used and well-known potato, a native of the Western Hemisphere, took on a new and important meaning to Martha that bright June day when she came in for a word of help for her talk on pioneer industries. She was dressed in a circular cotton skirt, rustling in its crispness and snowy whiteness. Underneath, and just barely showing, were her ruffled crinoline petticoats. She looked very much like a full-blown double petunia in all its summer beauty. "Martha, you look very pretty in your summer finery, and you seem as happy as you look." "Thanks Gramy! Now I need your help. You always know so much about pioneer life, I wish you would tell me about some pioneer project that you really helped with and know all about." ~ "Your new outfit, with its standout skirts, gives me an idea. These permanently stiff fabrics are rather modern. Many of them have been produced since you were born, but the idea of stiff flaring ruffles dates back many years." "How did you make your truffles stand out?" "We used starch, the thicker we made the starch the stiffer our ruffles ironed out. But each time when our clothes were laundered, the starching process had to be done over again." Page 42 "What is starch made of, anyway?" "There are many kinds of starch today," explained Gramy, "but when I was a child we made our starch from potatoes." "From potatoes! 'That we eat at the table, mashed, baked, or in French fries?" "Yes." "Well, tell me about it." "T must go back to the planting to give you the whole story. In the spring, after the frost was out of the ground, the time was ready for planting. We cut each seed potato into sections, with each piece having an eye or seed germ in it. These we planted in hills about twentyfour inches apart, and they grew into sturdy plants which blossomed with a blue-white flower somewhat resembling the snowdrop. From each piece of planted potato many roots grew out and reached down into the rich black soil and each root grew one or more potatoes. All summer the plants needed irrigation water and occasional hoeing to keep the soil loose. In October, before freezing weather came, we harvested them. It was fun to follow behind the plow, to watch the big steel blade turn over the soil and shell out the ripened potatoes, some large and some small. 'The potatoes seemed glad to get out into the sun and air, and we thought they looked at us with their many dull eyes as we gathered them into buckets and baskets. The large ones we stored in pits for table use, and the small ones we washed at the clear irrigation ditch in the back POTATO STARCH MAKING yard ready for starch making the next morning. "Harvesting potatoes was a full day's work, and we celebrated with a roast in the evening. We built a good fire with wood chips and _ buried the potatoes in the hot coals and ashes. While they cooked we played 'Run Sheep, Run,' 'Steal Sticks,' and 'Pomp, Pomp, Pull Away,' in the light of the bonfire. When we took the potatoes from the fire, they were sometimes a little burned and always very hot to handle, but we enjoyed eating the flavorful fluffy centers with a sprinkle of salt on them. "After a night's sleep we were up and at our next stage of our harvest —starch making." "How could you make starch from potatoes?" "The first thing we must have a grater. 'This was made by piercing nail holes in a large piece of tin, bent and tacked in a bow on a board. We carefully shredded the 43 small potatoes on this and let the bits fall into a tub of clear water. "A potato is seventy-cight per cent starch, and only about two and twotenths protein. The starch readily separated and made the water milky white. After stirring the mixture well, we covered the tubs and let the mixture stand overnight. Next morning, the pulp, washed clean of starch, floated on top the water and on the bottom of the tub we found a thick layer of damp starch. When this was dried, it crumbled into flakes or granules ready for use for the family laundry. On wash days we dissolved a few spoonfuls of the dried starch in a little cold water and poured boiling water over it and it became a creamy mass. 'T'his we put into the last rinse water for our cotton clothes to make them iron out smooth and stiff." "Thanks, Gramy, for a very interesting bit of pioneer lore. My teacher and the class will be glad when I tell them about it." Old Organ Ida Elaine James Here in this dusty room of memory Where cluster mutely the intaglio Of things once loved and lost, it speaks to me, A silent voice from out the long ago. I seem to see a tattered songbook spread Across the holder of frail curlecues Flanked on each side by lowered wicks which shed From shaded lamps, a light to guide the muse. There come to me again beloved words That warm the heart: "Blessed Be the Tie That Binds'— The healing music of those time-worn chords That lifted heavenward young hearts and minds. Fondly my heart goes back into the mist Where echoes follow "Oh, Abide With Me." Once more youth is the mellow organist And tender voices keep it company— Young faith repeated in the dust and gloom Of a bent antiquary's cluttered room. Shree-Part Songs for Relief Society Singing Mothers SUGGESTED BY FLORENCE J. MADSEN Title By O Lord Most Merciful—*(E) Concone Peace I Leave With You—(E) Roberts My Soul Is Athirst for God—**(M) Stickles God So Loved the World—(M) Stainer How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—(M)_—_ Liddle-Cain Bless the Lord, O My Soul—(M) Shumaker Publishers Lorenz Boston Music Co. Schroeder & Gunther Belwin Music Co. Boosey-Hawkes Presser (''e" flat may be substituted for the high "g" in the soprano part) I Will Lift Mine Eyes—(M) Spross The Heavens Resound—(M) Beethoven Jesus Our Lord We Adore Thee—(M) James O Saviour of the World—(M) Goss-Ray O for a Closer Walk with God—(M) _ Foster If With All Your Hearts—(M) Mendelssohn How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—(M) Smart (2 or 3 part) O Saviour Hear Me— (Violin Obl.) —#(D) Gluck-Riegger The Peace of God—(E) Gounod-Lynes O Come to My Heart, Lord Jesus—(M) Ambrose Grant Me, Dear Lord, Deep Peace of Mind—(D) Stickles Eye Hath Not Seen—(M) Gaul The Silent Sea—(D) Neidlinger The Birthday of a King—(M) Neidlinger (2 or 3 part, Christmas number) I Walked 'Today Where Jesus Walked | O'Hara (2 part — E) (3 part—M) The King of Glory—(M) Parks God Is Love—(M) Shelley Grateful, O Lord, Am I—(M) Roma The Good Shepherd—(E)_ Barri (2 or 3 part) I Come to Thee—**(M) Roma (2 or 3 part) Come Unto Him—(M) Handel-Krones Let the Mountains Shout for Joy—(M) Stephens-Scholin Beside Still Waters—* (E) Hamblen Enough to Know—(E) Ogden Softly and Tenderly—(M) Thomson-Rieger Open the Gates of the Temple—(M) Knapp (2 or 3 part) It Was for Me—(E) Blount Still, Still With Thee—#(D) O Lord, Remember Me—(M) F. Jepperson Madsen Roma-Trinkaus The Peace of God—(M) Gounod-Lynes The Lord Bless You and Keep Come, We That Love the Lord—(E) Barnes (2 part) I Will Exalt Thee, O Lord—(D) Harris *E——Easy **M—Medium Page 44 John Church Co. Birchard G. Schirmer Broadcast Music Co. Ditson Arthur P. Schmidt Presser Flammer Arthur P. Schmidt Ditson Willis Presser G. Schirmer G. Schirmer G. Schirmer Kjos Music Co. G. Schirmer Witmark G. Schirmer Witmark Belwin Belwin Boosey-Hawkes Miller Music Corp. Flammer Carl Fischer Witmark G. Schirmer Witmark Arthur P. Schmidt Summy Willis Arthur P. Schmidt #D—Difficult You—(M) Lutkin Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in this Magazine on page 47. Tee "a Ay ary Sh ee BS Photograph submitted by Annie B. Larson WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION, YUKON TERRITORY, WHITEHORSE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY WINS PRIZE IN DOMINION-WIDE QUILT CONTEST Left to right: Leone Jorde; Crystal Jorde, Secretary-Treasurer; Grace North, First Counselor; Ethel Robertson, President; Beth Drayton; Myrna Robertson. Annie B. Larson, President, Western Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports: "This quilt was designed by Leone Jorde, who also won two individual awards for quilts. Crystal Jorde won an individual award for an afghan in the same contest. Beth Drayton, who lives 150 miles from Whitehorse, took part in the quiltmaking by mail. The Whitehorse Relief Society was organized in September 1956. It is probably one of the most isolated in the world. Whitehorse is located on the Alaskan Highway, and over one thousand miles of rugged northland separate these sisters from the nearest branch of the Church. And, despite this isolation, these sisters have an outstanding Relief Society.... The Dominion Contest which these sisters entered receives entries from all over Canada, and to win a prize among such stiff competition is a distinct honor." Page 45 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 Photograph submitted by Martha C. Eagar JUAB STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Martha C. Eagar, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, is seated second from the left in the front row; First Counselor Helen B. Jones at the left, front row; Mary G. Jensen, Second Counselor, is seated in the third row, eighth from the left; chorister Vivian P. Hoyt and organist Jennie Hintce are seated at the right in the front row. Sister Eagar reports that the Singing Mothers chorus of Juab Stake numbers 100 members and comprises six wards. The chorus sings at stake quarterly conferences. Photograph submitted by Marion N. Pinkston LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ARLINGTON WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNUAL BIRTHDAY PARTY Left to right: Maude Sanders LaF rankie; Jeannette Wride Redd; Leone Haymore Tyler; Edna Layton Jones; Vera Eddington Thomsen; Caroline Layton Naylor; Artemesia Woolley Farr; Vivian Hastings Kerr; Artell Funk Lent; Evva Osborn Vorhees. Helen Barlow Clayton was not present when the picture was taken, Marion N. Pinkston, President, Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Arlington Ward was organized in 1936 and has had eleven Relief Society presidents, all of whom are still living and active in Church organizations," NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47 Pa Photograph submitted by Lovell W. Smith CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA CENTRAL DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS RETIRING PRESIDENT AT SOCIAL, September 29, 1957 Left to right: Ruby Braddock, retiring Secretary; Alice Brewer, retiring President; Jessie Roberts, President; Mary Ball, First Counselor; Leone Johnson, Second Counselor; Beulah Aldridge, Secretary. Lovell W. Smith, President, Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The retirement of Alice Brewer as Relief Society President of the North Carolina Central District, occasioned a social in her honor at the Colfax chapel. Attending were the executive officers of the district and branch Relief Societies. On behalf of the members throughout the district, Sister Brewer's successor to the presidency, Sister Jessie Roberts, presented a gift in appreciation of her seven years of faithful and productive service." Regulations Governing the Submittal of Nlaterial for "Tlotes rem the Sield ' HIS section of the Magazine is specifically devoted to pictures and accounts of activities and accomplishments of Relief Societies from all over the world. 'UVhrough this section are revealed blessings of this great organization as they touch the lives of sisters in small, remote areas, in the larger organizations in the increasing number of the stakes of the Church, and in the widely scattered missions throughout the world. From the pages of this section new ideas may be gained for conducting the various phases of the program of Relief Society, and it is hoped that all members of Relief Society far and near will sense more fully the great sisterhood of which they are a part, all striving in their particular Relief Society organizations for the accomplishment of the same general goals. Each stake and each mission is entitled to have published in "Notes 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 From the Field" one picture and accompanying descriptive material each year. Inasmuch as the space available for this section is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions, it is reserved for the accounts and pictures of organizations or groups in ward or stake Relief Society organizations, rather than for individuals. When submitting pictures, it is requested that only one picture be sent, rather than submitting several pictures with the request that the general board select one from the group for publication. Pictures can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. In making arrangements for having pictures taken, the person in charge should carefully check the following points: 1. Be sure that the women in the picture are arranged so that all of the faces will be visible. 2. The photographer should stand as close as possible to the group, as long distance shots do not reproduce well in the Magazine. 3. Note the position of each woman, especially those who are seated. 4. When the picture shows a large group of women, it is more effective to arrange them in a number of shorter rows, rather than in one or two long lines. 5. The print should be finished in glossy black and white and should be made in size eight inches by ten inches, if possible, although smaller prints will be accepted. Information accompanying the picture should give a descriptive title of the picture, and state the activity represented or the purpose of the meeting of the group. The date of the event should also be indicated. Identification of persons in the picture should be made on the reverse side. Names should be given from left to right, and written clearly. Officers in the picture and such other women as may have been leaders in the project presented in the picture, or those who are especially honored on the occasion, may be identified. Give first names of the women, such as Jennie N. Davis, instead of Mrs. John Davis or Sister Davis, and state position held. Notes and pictures should be submitted as soon after the event as possible. Pictures published in the Church News will not be published also in the Magazine. All material submitted for "Notes From the Field" should be sent through stake or mission Relief Society presidents and should be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The name of the person submitting the material should be indicated, together with the name of the stake or mission it is to represent. (See also Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. ) The general board would like to express its appreciation for the excellent co-operation received from the stakes and missions in submitting material for "Notes From the Field." —=—_— SSON DEPARTMENT Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 7—The Three Special Book of Mormon Witnesses Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Sections 5, 6, 8, 9, 17) For Tuesday, April 1, 1958 Objective: To emphasize the importance of the testimonies of the men who assisted Joseph Smith at the time of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon. Unm and Thummim and Revelation ECTIONS 8 and 9 of the Doctrine and Covenants are directed to Oliver Cowdery, whose acquaintanceship with the Prophet Joseph Smith began April 5, 1829. It is interesting to notice that Section 6, as also Section 3 and others, was received through the Unm and Thummim. (See the superscription.) This fact points up a use of these sacred instruments other than for the translation of ancient writings. Oliver Cowdery Meets Joseph Smith Oliver Cowdery had been teaching school in the New York, Manchester township area where the Prophet's father's family resided. As was customary in those times, the school teacher lived with the families in the school district "who sent to the school," and, by this means, Oliver became acquainted with the Smith family. Before this he had heard from David Whitmer, a friend, about the Prophet having received The Book of Mormon plates. Two days after the arrival of Oliver Cowdery in Harmony township, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, where the Prophet was residing, the Prophet "... Commenced to translate the Book of Mormon, and he [Oliver] began to write for me" (The Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:67). Sometime during this same month of April 1829, Joseph inquired of the Lord through the Urim and Thummim and received Section 6. Joseph Smith Received Divine Revelation The principal value of this revelation in our study is to learn wherein the testimony given to Oliver contributes to the fact that Joseph Page 49 Smith received divine revelations. The Lord herein reveals only that which Oliver Cowdery knew before meeting Joseph, but this same information was revealed to Joseph and thus the Lord sustained him as a prophet in the eyes of Oliver. With the foregoing facts in mind, let us turn to verses 14-18 of Section 6: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, blessed art thou for what thou hast done; for thou has inquired of me, and behold, as often as thou hast inquired thou hast received instruction of my Spirit. If it had not been so, thou wouldst not have come to the place where thou art at this time. Behold, thou knowest that thou hast inquired of me and I did enlighten thy mind; and now I tell thee these things that thou mayest know that thou hast been enlightened by the Spirit of truth; Yea, I tell thee, that thou mayest know that there is none else save God that knowest thy thoughts and the intents of thy heart. I tell thee these things as a witness unto thee—that the words or the work which thou hast been writing are true. Therefore be diligent; stand by my servant Joseph, faithfully, in whatsoever difficult circumstances he may be for the word's sake (D. & C. 6:14-18). Notice from this scripture that Oliver would not have come to visit Joseph, if it were not for the fact that his prayers had been answered. The Lord here makes known that the thoughts and intents of the heart are known to him, and that, in this case, Oliver Cowdery had received a witness that the work of translating the plates of 'he Book of Mormon in which Joseph Smith was employed, was of the Lord. Consequently, he is admonished to diligence in assisting Joseph. In order that Oliver might not lose sight of the witness that had been given to him, and also that he might understand more fully that he was, in fact, helping a true prophet of the Lord, this revelation continues in verses 22 to 24 inclusive, with further confirmation: Verily, verily, I say unto you, if you desire a further witness, cast your mind upon the night that you cried unto me in your heart, that you might know concerning the truth of these things. Did I not speak peace to your mind concerning the matter? What greater witness can you have than from God? And now, behold, you have received a witness; for if I have told you things which no man knoweth have you not received a witness? (D. & C. 6:22-24). In this way, the Lord confirmed the witness Oliver had_ received. Notice the significant words: ".. If I have told you things which no man knoweth, have you not received a witness?" Joseph Smith, by revelation, now knew what only the Lord and Oliver had known previously. In the Prophet's history, we find this record of the witness given to Oliver: After we had received this revelation, Oliver Cowdery stated to me that after he had gone to my father's to board, and after the family had communicated to him concerning my having obtained the plates, that one night after he had retired to bed he called upon the Lord to know if these things were so, and the Lord manifested to him that they were true, but he had kept the circumstance entirely secret, and had mentioned it to no one; so that after this revelation was given, he knew that the work was true, 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT because no being living knew of the thing alluded to in the revelation, but God and himself (D. H. C. 1:35). This circumstance resulted in the Prophet obtaining secretarial assistance which was much needed in the translation of 'The Book of Mormon plates. Oliver Cowdery did not return to schoolteaching, but remained with the Prophet to participate with him in many of the great spiritual blessings of this dispensation. If you had the same experience as Oliver Cowdery in regard to Section 6, how would you have felt toward the Prophet and his work? Oliver was promised that he might have the gift to translate even as Joseph Smith (D. & C. 6:25). It is further revealed that "... In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established" (D. & C. 6:28) and that if the world accepts the word of the Lord given by the testimony of witnesses they shall be blessed (D. & C. 6:28-31). Martin Harris and Section 5 We shall now turn our attention to what the Lord has said concerning the witnesses who would testify with the Prophet Joseph Smith to the truth of the gospel message. In Lesson 5 we learned that Martin Harris had received evidence of the existence of 'The Book of Mormon plates by receiving a translated portion of the plates which he had lost. He was still desirous to obtain further evidence, notwithstanding he had received confirmation from Professor Charles Anthon that the copied characters from the plates were true hieroglyphics. (See D. H. C, 1:20.) As a result of this desire of Martin, the revelation 51 now known as Section 5 was given (DO. &G, 5:2). The Prophet was under covenant to show the plates only to those whom the Lord would designate (D. & C. 5:3). Many times today nonmembers of the Church suggest that if they could see the gold plates, they would be convinced that Joseph Smith actually had an ancient set of records. It seems that many believe, if the plates were put on exhibit, this would be sufficient evidence to them. In this revelation the Lord does not concur with such a thought. He says: Behold, if they will not believe my words, they would not believe you, my servant Joseph, if it were possible that you should show them all these things which I have committed unto you (D. & C. 5:7). The world is to have the word of the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith (D. & C. 5:10). The Lord speaks through his divinely appointed servants. What he reveals does not always agree with what man thinks is true. 'The prophet Isaiah revealed concerning the workings of the Lord that the Lord's thoughts are not the thoughts of men, "... Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts" (Isa. 55:8-9). Rather than the plates being put on exhibit for everyone to see, there were to be three special witnesses (D. & C. 5:11-15). Joseph was not to be the only testator of the existence of the gold plates, but in this way others would also bear witness of The Book of Mormon. And their testimony shall also go forth unto the condemnation of this generation if they harden their hearts against them (D. & C. 5:18). The rejection of their testimony would result in "a desolating scourge" to be poured out from time to time unless the people of the world would repent. (See D. & C. 5:19.) 'To emphasize the fact that the Lord's word is always fulfilled, he refers to the destruction of Jerusalem anciently as an example. (See D. & C. 5:20.) Martin Harris was promised that he should be one of the three special witnesses to view the plates, but only on condition of humility. If he did see the plates, it was necessary that he should make it known to the world. (See D. & C. 5:24-28.) Background of Section 17 As a background for our study of Section 17, which is directly connected with Section 5, a brief review of some events in the Prophet's life seems appropriate. Joseph was at this time living in Harmony township, Pennsylvania, where he had met Emma Hale whom he married on January 18, 1827. He worked at various jobs and had acquired a small farm near his fatherin-law's at Harmony. By this time Oliver Cowdery had met the Prophet and the work of translating the plates was continuing. The Priesthood was restored (see Lesson 8). In June 1829, the Prophet became acquainted with Peter Whitmer of Fayette township, Seneca County, New York, who provided residence in his home for the Prophet, Emma, and Oliver. It was here that the translating of the plates was finished. As the work of translating progressed, it was learned that there were to be three special witnesses, "... Provided by the Lord, to whom he would grant that they should see the plates from which this work (The Book of Mormon] should be translated..." (D. H. C. 1:52). These witnesses were to bear record of what they saw and heard, as indicated in the following Book of Mormon references: Ether 5:2-4; 2 Nephi 11:3; 27:12. In response to the Prophet's inquiry of the Lord concerning those who should be the three witnesses, Section 17 was received 'in June 1829. A Footnote Reference Study Section 17 begins with a promise that these witnesses were not only to see the plates, but also the breastplate, the sword of Laban, the Urim and Thummim, and the Liahona, also called the miraculous directors. (See D. & C. 17:1.) An informative experience for the reader is to consult the footnote references pertaining to each one of these items. Answers to such questions as these will result: Were the Urim and Thummim in use during the period of the Old Testament? 'To what extent were the Urim and Thummim used during the Nephite dispensation? What relationship is there between the breastplate and the Urim and Thummim? What is the history of the miraculous directors and the sword of Laban amongst the Nephites? Proof That Joseph Had the Plates The Lord made known that it would be only by faith and _ his power that the plates would be seen. (See D. & C. 17:2, 5.) In Sec- 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT tion 5 and 17 we discover proof that Joseph Smith actually had the plates. What do you believe this proof to be? Both of these revelations contain promises that on certain conditions, the plates could be seen. Verses 2 to 5 of Section 17 make this clear, as do also the following verses from Section 5. And in addition to your testimony, the testimony of three of my servants, whom I shall call and ordain, unto whom [I will show these things, and they shall go forth with my words that are given through you. Yea, they shall know of a surety that these things are true, for from heaven will I declare it unto them. I will give them power that they may behold and view these things as they are (D. & C. 5:11-13). No person of intelligence would make such promises in his own name or in the name of the Lord unless he could thereafter produce the plates and have their truthfulness declared from the heavens. To be unable to do these things would show him to be a fraud before those who desired to be witnesses and all men who should later learn of his deceitfulness. The Promise of Witnesses Fulfilled Joseph Smith did not falsify. The promises made to the three witnesses were fulfilled. Not many days after Section 17 was received, Martin Harris, David Whitmer, Oliver Cowdery, and Joseph Smith retired into the woods on the Whitmer farm and prayed that the Lord would fulfill the promises given in this revelation. After each one of the four persons had prayed in succession without 53 success, a second attempt was made in the same manner and with the same lack of success. Martin Harris then proposed that he withdraw from the others, as he believed his presence was the cause for their failure. He withdrew and the Prophet records that the angel showed them the plates and "... We heard a voice from out of the bright light above us, saying, "These plates have been revealed by the power of God, and they have been translated by the power of God. The translation of them which you have seen is correct, and I command you to bear record of what you now see and hear'" (D. H. C. 1:54-55). The Prophet then went to Martin Harris and while in prayer with him, the same vision was repeated, whereupon Martin Harris cried out, apparen ey in an ecstasy of joy, "... "Tis enough; 'tis enough; mine eyes have beheld; mine eyes have beheld,' and jumping up, he shouted, 'Hosanna,' blessing God, and otherwise rejoiced exceedingly" (Ibid., 1:55). The testimony of the three special witnesses to The Book of Mormon (found in the forepart of each copy of that book) verifies the divine mission of Joseph Smith. Their later experiences in and out of the Church bear solemn witness to the actuality of the things to which they bore record. Each one of these three men was excommunicated from the Church. (During the past few years evidence has been found that Martin Harris was excommunicated by a High Council Court, a fact which had not been known before. This is stated in the article, "*... Publish it upon 54 the mountains,' the Story of Martin Harris" by William H. Homer, Jr., in the Improvement Era, June 1955, page 357.) If the three witnesses had been in collusion with Joseph Smith to deceive the world, it would have been the most normal thing for them to expose the falsehood they were attempting to perpetuate. Admitting that some people live lies, the declarations they make on their deathbeds usually reveal the truth. Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris maintained to the end of their mortal lives that an angel had appeared to them and given them a view of the plates. (Consult B. H. Roberts, New Witnesses for God, Il:157, 162, 167-8.) The fact that David Whitmer never returned to the Church strengthens the validity of his testimony. Eight additional witnesses also testified to the existence of The Book of Mormon plates. They saw and they examined the plates with their hands. (For information about the Three and Eight Witnesses, consult Preston Nibley, Witnesses of The Book of Mormon.) Additional Items on Sections 6, 8, 9, and 5 Section 6: Comment upon verse 7 will be made when we study Section 11. We are reminded in verse 13 that to be saved in the kingdom of God "... Is the greatest of all the gifts of God...." In concluding this revelation, the Lord admonishes Joseph and Oliver to fear not to do good, "... For whatsoever ye sow, that shall ye also reap; therefore, if ye sow good ye shall also reap good for your reward" (D. & C. 6:33). This scripRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 ture is applicable to all Latter-day Saints. The thought in the last verse is a part of the account which begins with verse 32, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, as I said unto my disciples..." which suggests that Joseph and Oliver were to think and ponder over the fact that Jesus is truly the Savior of the world, and that faithfulness in keeping the commandments will bring an inheritance in the kingdom of heaven. This last verse also serves to identify the Christ as the giver of the revelation. Section 8: Oliver Cowdery is to have the gift of revelation (verses 3, 4), which, if followed, would deliver him from his enemies. 'This is the same spirit by which Moses was able to bring the children of Israel through the Red Sea in safety (verse 3). In a world of unbelief, Latter-day Saints have greater reason to believe this miracle of the Old Testament. Notice the counsel given to Oliver in verse 10 concerning the necessity of faith. This is a truth which also applies to all Latter-day Saints. Section 9: This revelation stresses the point that Oliver Cowdery failed to translate because he believed it unnecessary to expend effort in that attempt. The emotion or reaction described in verse 8 as a burning within one, frequently accompanies the giving of revelation or the witness of the truth. This "burning" was present with the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, who received instruction from the resurrected Jesus. (See Luke 24:13-35, especially verse 32). Oliver was not to translate but to continue to be Joseph's scribe. Section 5: This appears to be the LESSON DEPARTMENT first revelation to the Prophet where it is even hinted that he might be slain (martyred) for his witness of the truth (verse 22). Questions for Discussion 1. In what way does Section 6 give evidence that Joseph Smith was divinely ditected? 2. Discuss: If the plates of The Book of Mormon were placed on exhibit, peo- 55 ple would be convinced that The Book of Mormon is true. 3. How do Sections 5 and 17 give proof that Joseph Smith had The Book of Mormon _ plates? 4- Wherein does the testimony of the Three Witnesses differ from the Fight Witnesses? 5. Discuss: We can believe the witnesses to The Book of Mormon. 6. Are Latter-day Saints committed to a belief in miracles? Explain. Visiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 7—"Look Unto Me in Every Thought; Doubt Not, Fear Not" (D. & C. 6:36). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, April 1, 1958 Objective: To emphasize the fact that when we place our complete trust in the Lord we gain strength and peace of mind. PRESIDENT McKay tells a story abcut a group of Swiss botanists who were in the Alps collecting specimens of rare flowers. The group, he says:. Started out one morning from a small village and after several hours' climb came to a precipice overlooking a green valley dotted with a peculiar flower, which, examined through field glasses proved to be of unusual value. From the cliff on which the party was standing to the valley was a sheer drop of several hundred feet. 'To descend would be impossible, and to reach the valley from another approach would mean a waste of several hours. During the latter part of their climb a small boy had attached himself to the party and had watched with interest the maneuvers of the botanists. After discussing the situation for several minutes, one of the party turned to the boy and said, "Young fellow, if you will let us tie a rope around your waist and lower you over this cliff so that you can dig up one of those plants for us... We will give you five pounds." The boy looked dazed for an instant then ran off... But within a short time he returned, bringing with him an old man, bent and gray, with hands gnarled and calloused by hard labor. Upon reaching the party of botanists, the boy... Said, "Sir, this is my dad. I'll go down in the valley if you will let my dad hold the rope." (Cherished Experiences, Clare Middlemiss, page 190). The simple, unquestioning confidence this boy had in his father is the type of pure trust our Father in heaven hopes we, his children, will have in him. He knows that if we put our trust in him we will keep his commandments and follow the paths he has laid out for our happiness here on the earth and for our eternal joy in the life to come. This truth was beautifully expressed by Solomon when he said: Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths (Prov. 3:5-6). A trust in the Lord gives us the inward strength and spiritual power to overcome life's temptations and to meet courageously its trials and sorrows. 'The human soul has great need for the sustaining strength that comes from the assurance that someone is near who can be depended upon. This is particularly true in family relationships. Every child needs the feeling of security that is present only in those homes where love, confidence, and trust abound. In a similar manner, all of us constantly need to be able to rely upon our Father in heaven. We need to be able to come to him and unburden our souls and seek the solutions to our problems. In this way, we can gain spiritual strength and can find peace of mind. Jesus sald: Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light (Mt. 11:28-30). If we live each day the best we can, placing our complete trust in the Lord, we will have no need to fear, no need to regret, nor to worry, nor to doubt. Work Mleeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 7—Savings and Added Happiness Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, April 8, 1958 Objective: To gain an understanding of the importance of savings to our personal happiness and to the preserving of our way of life. T was natural for the beehive to become a symbol of proper living among the Mormon pioneers. 'The ancient trademark of the savings bank is a beehive. The active, working bees are suggestive of the life of successful people who become the depositors. The honey stored in the comb for a day of need is representative of savings. Savings can truly be called the nectar of our labor, because savings are essential for one's full temporal and spiritual happiness, and to preserve our way of life. 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT Correct Point of View Toward Savings Some people have misunderstood the real meaning of statements in the scriptures and have belittled the importance of savings and the appropriateness of attempting to become financially independent. The development of our talents, the gaining of knowledge, the accumulation of savings is blessed if, ",.. Ye will seek them for the intent of good" (Jacob 2:19). Remember, it may be easier to be meek when poor, but it may be more noble to be meek when rich! Importance of Savings A fool can earn money; but it takes a wise man to save and dispose of it to his own advantage (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 292). Savings are important for many reasons. 1. We are not in this world only to provide for ourselves, but to provide for others, and our capacity to help others is very limited unless we have accumulated some "riches." But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel (I Timothy 5:8). Idleness and wastefulness are not according to the rules of heaven. Preserve all you can, that you may have abundance to bless your friends and your enemies (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 290). 2. It is the duty of each person, or each man and wife, to be self-sustaining, if possible, during emergencies and to prepare for the later years in life. Who are deserving of praise? The persons who take care of themselves or 57 the ones who always trust in the great mercies of the Lord to take care of them? It is just as consistent to expect that the Lord will supply us with fruit when we do not plant the trees; or that when we do not plow and sow and are saved the labor of harvesting, we should cry to the Lord to save us from want, as to ask him to save us from the consequences of our own folly, disobedience and waste (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 293). Only after we have done our best, are we prepared to ask others for help, if outside help is needed.. Mature individual, and especially the head of the family, will find that a savings account makes the difference between economic freedom and being an economic prisoner. There are so many ways that building up a savings account will be an aid to success. A working person can usually make wiser decisions regarding employment opportunities if he has a reserve fund. The business man and the farmer with reserves on hand will be able to make the most of opportunities. 4. Savings invested in equipment make possible the more efficient use of time. Everyday examples are automatic washing machines versus doing the job by hand; vacuum cleaners versus mop and_ brooms; tractor versus horse; and truck versus wagon. 'l'o most, none of these can be had without savings. 5. Living so that expenses are less than income, and thus permitting the accumulation of savings, increases one's power to serve the Church. This family will be prepared to sustain a son or a daughter on a mission, and maybe the parents themselves will someday be able to enjoy a mission together. This family will have the margin of income over expenses that permits them to contribute to building chapels, and responding to other requests. This family can do these things cheerfully without creating emergencies because their financial house is in order. 6. The democratic way of life is no more secure than the ability and willingness of people to have and to use savings wisely. Products and services such as oil and gas, electricity and telephone, that are so essential to modern living would not be possible unless there were savings with which to buy the facilities and finance the business. Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapter 26, "Thrift and Industry," is replete with choice ideas and suggestions on the subject of savings. It is also recommended that Chapter 27, "Wealth" be read. Brigham Young wanted the saints to live and to develop themselves so that they would become a wealthy people. He also wanted everyone to understand that "Wealth brings happiness only when used for the Gospel" (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 313). Me eneno Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson. 15—Macbeth, Villain or Hero? Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, April 15, 1958 Objective: To realize the ruin which comes to one who, possessed of basic virtues, yields to the powers of evil. (Spoken of Macbeth) Who then shall blame His pestered senses to recoil and start, When all that is within him does condemn Itself for being there.... Macbeth, Othello, Hamlet, and King Lear are usually considered to be the four principal tragedies of Shakespeare. One of the best proofs of his genius is that, when each play is being studied, so complete is its dominating power over us that we scarcely recall that Shakespeare wrote anything else. V. 2. 22-25 The Intensity of Macbeth As in King Lear, the accumulative intensity of Macbeth becomes so personal and overwhelming that we almost cry out to Shakespeare for mercy. But whereas Lear overcame his personal weaknesses, Macbeth and his lady were overcome by theirs. As in Othello the mystery of 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT evil is everywhere present; in Macbeth terror is dominant. For lago evil is the normal, dominant power in the universe; and yet, most pitiful, Iago never consciously recognizes evil as evil. In this attitude Lady Macbeth resembles Iago rather closely, since she lacks the imaginative insight to realize what the effects of murdering Duncan will be, either within herself or within the hearts of loyal Scotsmen everywhere. Not so, alas, with Macbeth. The tragedy of his own self-created destruction may well be the most terrible in Shakespeare because, both before and after his murderings, his basically noble, moral nature constantly reminds him that he himself has become evil even while he remains at heart a fearless and a courageous man. What can be more terrible than to commit an evil which you know to be evil? This is Macbeth's dilemma, yet though his suffering is extreme, it fails to burn out entirely a larger nobility within him, which is never more strongly seen than in his last words to Macduff, whom he now recognizes as his own foreordained killer: Though Birnam Wood be come to Dunsinane, And thou opposed, being of no woman born, Yet I will try the last. Before my body I throw my warlike shield. Lay on, Macduff, And damned be him that first crics "Hold, enough!" V. 8. 30-34 Why Macbeth so willingly allows himself to be seduced by evil while Banquo resists the same temp- 59 tation, we cannot entirely know. But through Banquo, Shakespeare tells us that without question the witches represent primitive evils from beneath and below, come to violate man's better nature: The earth hath bubbles as the water has, And these are of them, whither are they vanished?... Were such things here as we do speak about? Or have we eaten on the insane root That takes the reason prisoner? I. 3. 79-80, 83-85 We are to witness, however, a basic conflict within Macbeth as we watch fear, largely self-fear, destroy its most distant opposites: love and honor and justice. 'The uniting love which made Macbeth and Lady Macbeth so harmonious a union at the opening of the play is not so much destroyed as replaced entirely by fear and inner distrust. Lady Macbeth was ready to deny her own conscience and maintain outward appearance until it killed her — which it did. 'The first scenes in the play are entirely successful in their painting Macbeth as the bravest of men, and yet even while he remains fearless, his own frankly acknowledged inner fears unman him until he becomes other than himself. The word fear appears more frequently in this play than in any other; indeed it states a major theme. Yet Macbeth's better self is never utterly destroyed. As in Lear, this play is mostly ending, since after Duncan is murdered, Macbeth is most aware of what his fate is to be:... [Tam sick at heart.... I have lived long enough. My way of life Is fall'n into the sear, the yellow leaf, And that which should accompany old age, As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends, I must not look to have, but in their stead Curses, not loud but deep, mouth-honor, breath, Which the poor heart would fain deny, and dare not. V. 3. 19, 22-28 Plot Macbeth and Banquo, generals to King Duncan of Scotland, have just defeated rebellious Macdonwald and the treacherous Thane of Cawdor. Three witches prophesy to them that Macbeth shall be Thane of Cawdor and king thereafter, while Banquo shall be no king, but father of kings. Immediately after the witches disappear, messengers come from the King to appoint Macbeth Thane of Cawdor. Macbeth, spurred on by this fulfillment, his own ambition, and his iron-willed wife, stabs Duncan to death while he is a guest at Inverness, Macbeth's castle. 'Then in seeming rage at the guards' denial of committing the crime, Macbeth kills them. They have been drugged and smeared with blood by Lady Macbeth. In fear of their lives, Malcolm and Donalbain, the king's sons, flee the country, which focuses guilt on them, and Macbeth, being nearest remaining kin, is crowned king. Knowing that Banquo suspects him, Macbeth arranges a banquet in Banquo's honor, but previously Macbeth has arranged with two murderers to murder Banquo and his son Fleance as they approach the castle. The murderers attack Banquo and kill him, but Fleance escapes. At that evening's banquet Banquo's ghost appears only to Macbeth, who is so panicked by fear that his assembled noblemen are aghast and Lady Macbeth dismisses them in confusion. Knowing that powerful Macduff also suspects him and also has the courage to act against - him, Macbeth seeks out the three witches' cavern and there the three apparitions warn him that he shall be harmed by no man born of woman, and not until "Great Birnam Wood to high Dunsinane Hill Shall come against him..." (IV. 1. 93- 94) need he fear. Immediately upon learning that Macduff has escaped to England, Macbeth has Lady Macduff and her children murdered, then begins fortifying Dunsinane castle against attack from combined Scotch and English forces led by Malcolm and Macduff. Lady Macbeth goes mad and takes her own life just as the attackers appear before the castle, each man holding a branch of a tree from Birnam forest before him for concealment. Jolted by the sight of the moving forest, Macbeth still trusts the prophecy that no man born of woman shall harm him, and goes forth to battle. Macduff reveals to Macbeth that he (Macduff) was not of woman born but "... Was from his mother's womb untimely ripped" (V. 8. 15-16). Even so, Macbeth refuses to yield and fights to the end. Macduff kills him, and brings his head before victorious Malcolm, whom he addresses as the new and rightful King of Scotland. The Supporting Frame Macbeth is Shakespeare's shortest popular play; therefore if it is to 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT Reproduced by Permission of the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre Stratford-Upon-Avon, England 61 Courtesy Ramona W. Cannon "THE THREE WITCHES" FROM "MACBETH," Act 1, Scene 3, ff. Achieve the powerful impact which Shakespeare's audiences expect, each character and scene must contribute even more heavily to the accumulative effect. And so it does. Macbeth himself is the heart of the drama. All lesser characters, including his wife, but serve as warnings and motivation to Macbeth before the murder, and afterwards provide intensification of his own sufferings, either through similarity or contrast. 'The total shape of the play —its texture, tone, course of action as revealed in specific characters and scenes—is to serve as background and frame for Macbeth's personal conflicts. Thus, on the surface level, all events preceding Duncan's murder serve to reveal Macbeth as a successful nobleman possessing every bounty of life: a loving wife, the respect and love of both his fellow noblemen and his kinsman King Duncan. All acclaim Macbeth as a good man and a valiant warrior utterly without fear, with inevitable advancement just ahead as reward for his loyalty and selflessness. Donalwald's rebellion and the Thane of Cawdor's treason, point sharply to Macbeth the fate of those who endanger the established order, yet Macbeth persists in his concealed action. At the first appearance of the witches, Macbeth's better self knows at once that they are evil, and we are not at all convinced when Macbeth attempts justifying himself by explaining them as forces of good. (Read I. 3. 130-142.) Instead of approving his succumbing to evil, we suffer his conflict 62 with him, particularly when intensified by his iron-willed wife who goads him to the murder, not by asking that he too be "'unsexed..." and filled "from the crown to the toe, topfull of direst cruelty," but that he might act the part of a man. As the play to this point has proved, Macbeth's greatest pride rightly lies in his valor and honor, yet she defines these greatest strengths as his most dangerous weakness:... Yet do I fear thy nature. It is too full o' the milk of human kindness To catch the nearest way. Thou wouldst be great, Art not without ambition, but without The illness should attend it.... I. 5. 17-21 In her mouth "milk of human kindness" is white, not red; it is womanish, weak, and contemptible. When later Macbeth and his wife know King Duncan is to be their guest, it is she who decides to murder him at once. Macbeth senses her fanatic determination and _ is warned by it; he asks that they discuss it no further. But she taunts him, "... Wouldst thou... Live a coward in thine own esteem...." (I. 7. 41, 43) and Macbeth is forced reluctantly to agree to murder. His better self is beaten, and he knows it, as the last line in the bitter scene reveals: Away, and mock the time with fairest show. False face must hide what the false heart doth know. I. 7. 81-82 Once Macbeth is king, contrasts to his own tortured self and his failure as a king multiply on every hand. Though Banquo is sorely tempted, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 never does he actively succumb to the lust of ambition and the wry words of the witches. But in complete contrast to the tyrant Macbeth, Macduff is ready to die fighting for loyalty and principle. Ambiguity in Macbeth Fair is foul, and foul is fair. Hover through the fog and filthy air. I. 1. 11-12 Thus, in the first scene Shakespeare establishes both his method and his tone. Macbeth is so real to us because Shakespeare so successfully details the vast difference between what Macbeth appears to be outwardly, and what inside he actually desires and fears. How fascinating it is to watch him mouth words of loyalty to the very man he plans to kill. And after the murder, how appearances must be maintained at all costs, even while poor Macbeth—he who has "murdered sleep" —inwardly relives his sin every minute of every day, ever and forever knowing it to be evil. Macbeth is fully aware of his different selves, for early in the play he says, "Nothing is but what is not" (I. 3. 141). While on occasion Macbeth speaks the truth in an aside directed to the audience, mostly nothing is what it appears to be. And because we of Shakespeare's audience alone know this, throughout the play the impact of appearance's ambiguity or double meaning is particularly sharpened. As a more detailed study of examples will show, it is this skillful use of ambiguity which, perhaps more than any other artistic device, gives to the play its irresistible power. LESSON DEPARTMENT Once we become conscious of it, this play is saturated with proof that nothing is what it seems, that "Fair is foul, and foul is fair." Is Macbeth dominated by manly bravery or by fear? Which is the real Macbeth? In the second scene of the play we are told of:. Brave Macbeth—well he deserves that name— Disdaining fortune, with his brandished steel, Which smoked with bloody execution, Like valor's minion [darling] carved out his passage. I. 2. 16-19 Such a passage tends to make Macbeth almost too rashly brave to be normal. Yet in the very next scene the witches appear to this "valiant, brave man," so shaking him that Banquo asks: Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear Things that do sound so fair? I' the name of truth, Are ye fantastical, or that indeed Which outwardly ye show.. I. 3. 51-54 Of course Macbeth starts from uncontrollable inward fear since the witches' prophetic utterances to the two generals have revealed Macbeth's secret ambition to become king through the murder of Duncan. When Macbeth refuses to discuss further with Lady Macbeth the murdering of their guest, she skillfully employs the one taunt which finally vanquishes his moral scruples: Lady M.... Art thou afeard To be the same in thine own act and valor As thou art in desire? Wouldst thou have that 63 Which thou esteem'st the ornament of life And live a coward in thine own esteem, Letting "I dare not" "T would..." Macbeth. Prithee, peace. I dare do all that may become a man. Who dares do more is none.... I. 7. 39947 wait upon Actually Macbeth is dominated alternately by fear and manliness. He is enough of a good man to fear his deed; but fears even more to be thought a coward. 'This his wife knows too well, and her "illness to evil" triumphs over his cowardly conscience. How thoroughly she exemplifies the advice she gives Macbeth, "... Bear welcome in your eye, your hand, your tongue. Look like the innocent flower but be the serpent under 't...." Act II, scene 1, balances between ambiguity and revealing soliloquy. Banquo first asks that he himself not succumb to his own evil thoughts concerning the King, which self-confession he conceals as he meets Macbeth late at night in the castle. Instead he speaks ambiguously that "all's well," with the King sleeping above them in "measureless content." He then reminds Macbeth of the three witches' promise to them both, but ambiguously Macbeth lies that he never thinks on them, and they bid each other a cordial goodnight. Then Macbeth in turn speaks his "Is this a dagger which I see before me" soliloquy which fully reveals his own inner ambiguity, since herein he questions whether the dagger with which he is soon to murder Duncan is dream or phantasy. 64 In Act IH, scene 2, Shakespeare employs double meanings to contrast the conspirators' reactions now murder is done. Lady Macbeth is fearless, contemptuous of Macbeth's cringing; she regards Duncan's mutder only as a practical necessity, whereas Macbeth is entirely aware of the deeper, more terrifying currents he has set in motion. Even as the murder is being accomplished she worries and gloats: Lady M.... I laid their daggers ready, He could not miss em. Had he not resembled My father as he slept I had done 't. [Enter Macbeth.] My husband! I have done the deed.... This is a sorry sight. [Looking on his hands.] Lady M. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight. There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried '""Murder!" That they did wake each othmT...: One cried "God bless us!" and "Amen" the other, As they had seen me with these hangman's hands. Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen" When they did say "God bless us!" Lady M. Consider it not so deeply. Macb. But wherefore could I not pronounce "Amen"? I had most need of blessing, and "Amen" Stuck in my throat. Lady M. These deeds must not be thought After these ways. So, it will make us mad. Methought I heard a voice cry "Sleep no more! Macbeth does murder sleep" — the innocent sleep, Sleep that knits up the raveled sleave of care, Macb. Macb. Macb. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 The death of each day's life, sore labor's_ bath, Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, Chief nourisher in life's feast— Lady M. What do you mean?... Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy Thane, You do unbend your strength to think So brainsickly of things. Go get some water And wash this filthy witness from your hand. Why did you bring these daggers from the place? They must lie there.... I'll go no more. I am afraid to think what I have done, Look on 't again I dare not. Lady M. Infirm of purpose! Give me the daggers. Sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures. "Tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil.... [Knocking within.] Whence is that knocking? How is 't with me when every noise appals me? What hands are here? Ha! 'They pluck out mine eyes! Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine, Making the green one red. TI, 25 "aailte noble ~ Macb. The Macb. Thus must we pity poor Lady Macbeth; even while we wonder at her courage and her supreme will. For her to think that murder could ever lie forgotten in one's memory, or become merely routine! But time, which has already begun its workings in the more perceptive Macbeth, eventually murders her own secret peace as it does his. Inevitably she comes to understand only too well Macbeth's words which LESSON DEPARTMENT earlier seemed to her cowardly gibberish. And was Macbeth a "moral coward"? Do his fears and seemingly ambiguous images prove him unable to face reality? Rather do they portray him the bravest of men, since he knew the moral consequences of murder before ever he murdered, while afterward to the very end he never refused to face all the impli- 65 cations of his accumulating crimes, but fought his own evils—hopelessly knowing them to be evil—until Macduft's sword delivered him from such sustained agony. Hero or villain? Nay, but both. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What is the great tragedy of this play? 2. What are some of the outstanding scenes? What makes them outstanding? Social renee — | siter-da Saint Family Life yy y Lesson 13—Love—A Basic Ingredient Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, April 22, 1958 Objective: To show that love is essential for family happiness, Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God (I John 4:7). OVE is the finest of all human emotions. It is constantly before us, in our lives and in story and song, and while it is beautifully simple, it defies an easy definition. The warmth of love dispels fear. It is love from which come inspiration to accomplish, the will to seek a better way, and the strength to suffer grief and pain. The sanctuary of love is the heart where its sweetness is felt and the impulse to express is born. It is that feeling of strong personal attachment which exists among people. Its aspects include, but are not limited to fondness, respect, regard, admiration, affection, tenderness, sacrifice, sympathy, attachment, devotion, adoration, and understanding. 'The presence of love dwarfs disagreement. It impels men to die for their loved ones if need be. Its absence fills the heart with despair, hate, and error. It is an essential ingredient for happiness and for intellectual, emotional, and spiritual growth. It is the greatest of the three biblical virtues of faith, hope, and charity, the last of which is generally translated by modern scholars as "love." Mormon tegarded charity as "the pure love of Christ," and taught "whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him" (Moroni 7:47). The best-known description of the aspects of love, or charity, is that recorded by Paul in his first Epistle to the Corinthians: Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, 66 Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth... (I Cor. 13: 4-8). Love Begins at Home It is in the family setting where love springs forth and is expressed in its finest form. How and to what extent it develops depend largely upon the husband and wife, who establish the emotional tone of the home. A newborn child feels love, or its absence, first from his parents. As the child's personality develops, he discovers the necessity for love in every phase of his life. In the first weeks of life he develops a feeling of affection for those who care for him, who at that time represent the world about him. The type of care he receives is prompted by parental love. The feeling of the infant, obtained from his early experiences, remains with him for a considerable length of time. The importance of this early relationship-has influenced the development of lying-in hospitals and less-rigid feeding schedules for infants. 'This philosophy has also returned the rocking chair for the mutual enjoyment of mother and child. At about twelve to fifteen months age the child recognizes himself as an individual and from that time on he begins to learn about right and wrong and many other things. He often asserts himself in defiance, and it is the true love of the parent at this time which can convey security as freedoms and limitations are passed to him. As the child expresses his initiative, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 wise bestowal of love by parents is most important so as not to stifle him. He is helped to avoid fear. "There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear..." (I John 4:18). When a child is successful in an undertaking, he is encouraged to further accomplishment by the love and approval of parents. As he moves into adolescence, being alternately a child and adult, parental love needs to be strong in patience and guidance and should be shown skillfully. 'These qualities are also greatly needed through the period of making friends, and, gradually, relying less upon home and parents. The influence of love on the molding of feelings and attitudes continues through adulthood. Though the role of love may change as we mature, its constancy needs to be felt. If we have family members about us who are patient and understanding, who recognize our worth as individuals, who encourage us in our accomplishments, and who truly love us, the will to progress is strong, for we are happy. President Joseph F. Smith, during his lifetime, often said:... The love of a true mother comes nearer being like the love of God than any other kind of love (Gospel Doctrine, page 315). While this is no doubt true, mothers have no monopoly on love. It is received and expressed by family members at all ages. From the letters of Thomas Jefferson, the third President of the United States, and from whose pen came the Declaration of Independence, we can observe the love among family mem; LESSON DEPARTMENT bers at various ages and under differing circumstances. As we take excerpts from his letters, note particularly the concern prompted by a father's love for his family. In 1785, at the age of forty-two, Jefferson wrote to his seven-year-old motherless daughter, Maria, who was then living with an aunt and uncle: I hope you are a very good girl, that you love your uncle and aunt very much, and are very thankful... For their goodness to you; that you never suffer yourself to be angry with anybody, that you give your playthings to those who want them, that you do whatever anybody desires of you that is right, that you never tell stories, never beg for anything (A Jefferson Profile, Saul K. Padover, page 29-30, John Day & Co. 1956). When Maria was nine and was shortly to return to her father and sister Martha, Jefferson wrote to Martha, then fifteen: When she arrives, she will become a precious charge on your hands. - Teach her, above all things, to be good— because without that, we can neither be valued by others, nor set any value upon ourselves. Teach her to be always true. Teach her never to be angry.... And teach her industry and application to useful pursuits. I will venture to assure you, that if you inculcate this in her mind, you will make her a happy being in herself, a most inestimable friend to you, and precious to all the world (Ibid, page 50). Upon Martha's wrote to her: marriage, he The happiness of your life now depends on continuing to please a single person. To this all other objects must be secondary, even your love for me, were it possible that could ever be an obstacle.... Cherish, then for me, my dear child, the affection of your husband, and continue to love me as you have done, and to ren- 67 der my life a blessing by the prospect it may hold up to me of seeing you happy (Ibid., page 85). At the age of eighty-three, Thomas Jefferson wrote his grandson, 'Thomas Jefferson Randolph: You kindly encourage me to keep up my spirits; but oppressed with disease, debility, age, and embarrassed affairs, this is difficult. And later in the letter, in speaking of his family: Their affectionate devotion to me makes a willingness to endure life a duty, as long as it can be of any use to them. Yourself, particularly, dear Jefferson, I consider as the greatest of Godsends which Heaven has granted to me. Without you, what could I do under the difficulties now environing me? (Ibid., page 342). Thus we see in the life of a great man some of the aspects of love in the family. When parents treat one another with courtesy and respect, said President Joseph F'. Smith:. It will be easy... To instill into the hearts of their children not only love for their fathers and their mothers, not only respect and courtesy towards their parents, but love and courtesy and deference between children at home. (Gospel Doctrine, page 284). While a general atmosphere of love pervades the happy home, within such a setting are found some rather specific relationships which serve as steady supports of family solidarity. Among these relationships are those of husband and wife; mother and daughter; mother and son; father and son; father and daughter; brother and _ brother; brother and sister; sister and sister; and others. Each of these is indi- 68 vidual and specific, and while they all have similar ingredients, the proportions of these ingredients vary. Family members are closely cemented together as love crisscrosses among them. Love is, indeed, an essential and leavening influence in the happy home. It is not costly paintings, tapestries, priceless bric-a-brac, various omaments, costly furniture, fields, herds, houses and lands which constitute the ideal home, nor yet the social enjoyments and ease so tenaciously sought by many; but it is rather beauty of soul, cultivated, loving, faithful, true spirits; hands that help and hearts that sympathize; love that seeks not its own, thoughts and acts that touch our lives to finer issues—these lie at the foundation of the ideal home (Ibid., page 303). The Expression of Love How is love expressed? While doing Or saying specific things may be expressions of love, such are only parts of a larger concept. Love comes from a basic "feeling" rather than a willed attempt to "show love." From the "feeling" for our loved ones comes the emotional atmosphere in which -their love for others is nurtured. Actually, research confirms what clinicians believe: That it is the overall emotional tone of the home that counts for most, and that the specific techniques are valuable chiefly when employed by _parents who can carry them out with competence and genuine concern for the child's well-being (Fact Finding Report Digest, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950, page 39). Parents who reason they must show love to their children proceed from the wrong end. Actually, if they feel properly towards the child, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 their love will be expressed and they need not worry too much about how or when to show it. Authorities in the field of child development say that through the actions of welladjusted parents, stimulated by their natural impulses, children receive the kind of love best suited to their - proper development. Love is expressed in ways other than in giving. Doing that which is best for a child, even though it may mean a limitation or a depriviation is an expression of love. Asa parent disciplines a child, he should make certain the child understands that it is what he does that the parent disapproves and that the discipline is not a lessening of affection for the child. 'The impulse to improve the child by such correction is itself an expression of love. One of the best ways to express love to a child is by the devotion of time and interest to him. Parents at times do things for their children under a misconception that love is shown. 'This might be damaging to the child. This will occur when a parent has not fully accepted a child or has a feeling a child is a millstone about his neck or has deprived the parent of some desired things. 'Io compensate for what is likely a feeling of guilt, the child is showered with many tangible things, things that can be seen. This is unfair to the child because it teaches him to expect too much from others, and, when he leaves the protection of the home, he continues to expect too much from the world. 'The result is unhappiness and problems. Instead of providing the child with security, it often makes the child more insecure. President Joseph F. Smith has LESSON DEPARTMENT touched upon this problem as follows: It is just as wrong systematically to give a child everything he desires as to deny the child everything. When indulgent parents fancy that they are adding to the pleasure of their children's lives by giving to them whatever they wish, such parents are in fact destroying the capacity of their children to enjoy the gratification of desires weakened and perverted by over-indulgence. The ability to give to children wisely is indeed a rare attainment, and is acquired only by a thoughtful and prudent exercise of the highest sense of duty which parents can feel for their children (Gospel Doctrine, page 298). Love Never Faileth In 1950, outstanding authorities in the field of child development were assembled at the call of the President of the United States at the White House Conference of Children and Youth. This conference in its published report concluded that children require, for their fullest development, among other things:. Loving care and guidance from mothers and fathers who have a sense of the privilege and responsibility which parenthood involves, and who have confidence in their own capacity to rear a child (Proceedings, Midcentury White House Conference on Children & Youth, page 29). The effect of love is aptly described by President Joseph F. Smith, not only upon the recipient but upon the giver, who in his case was his mother, of whose love he said: It was life to me; it was strength; it was encouragement; it was love that begat love or liking in myself. I knew she loved me with all her heart. She loved her children with all her soul. She would toil and labor and sacrifice herself day and night, for the temporal comforts and blessings that she could meagerly give, through the 69 Sacred Music for the Church Pianist —. CHAPPELL'S SACRED SONG FAVORITES ooo. Eeeeee ee$1.25 me CONCERT TRANSCRIPTIONS OF FAVORITE HYMNS |... 1.00 28 LORENZ SACRED PIANO DUETS 1.50 —_ PIANO HYMN VOLUNTARIES— VOLS. 1, 2, $....0..-----sessecceeceeesea. 1.50 ares SABBATH DAY MUSIC............... 1.25 FA SACRED MUSIC PIANO SOLO...... 1.50 = SACRED PIANO SOLOS............... 1.00 ee SACRED MELODIES WITH VARIATIONS W000. 1.25 Scere SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO.... 1.50 =. SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC |... 1.25 — TRANQUIL HOURS...................... 1.50 == TWENTY PIANO DUET TRANSCRIPTIONS |... 1.25 ast TWELVE SACRED SONGS.......... 1.25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank a a ee ee; | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 1 15 E. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah! \ \ | I Please send the music indicated above.: (J On Approval (1 Charge C] Money Enclosed ' \ \! \ ' 1 \ \ j \ Nome........ Cececcececenseosencscsacencesescntencaseceseeseneeeeeees Daynes Mice _| ATLALATITLITAI E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO #f Salt Lake City 11, Utah results of her own labors, to her children. There was no sacrifice of self—of her own time, of her leisure or pleasure, or opportunities for rest—that was considered for a moment, when it was compared with her duty and her love to her children (Gospel Doctrine, page 314). A satisfactory affectional relationship in a home prepares children to fit properly into an adult world. In this connection the U. S. Children's Bureau observes: One of the things that complicates our bringing up children is that they have feelings and so do we.... The wise bestowal of affection and love proves a great advantage to the child. Unwisely handled, love can prove as dangerous as anger and fear. Parents can find it so satisfying to have a child depend upon them that they do not see to it that he reaches out to form ties with other people. When we give this kind of love to a child, he may expect to receive love from others, but not know how to give it (Your Child From One to Six, U. S. Children's Bureau, 1956, page 7). A child who has not lived in a normal intimate friendship with his parents and other family members often lacks the know-how to create a proper affectional setting for his own family when he reaches adulthood. This state can easily become a family pattern passed from one generation to the next, and it is, therefore, important that each family create now a wholesome, affectional atmosphere. If properly applied, whatever our age, love prepares us to accept and meet stress in life's situations, as well as to avoid stress. We can accept economic problems as they come. Even the jealousy sometimes expressed by one child towards a newborn in the family can be lessened if we treat such expressions as a desire for reassurance in the parent's affection. Through love and understanding, such an event will not be a threat to the child's place in his parent's affection. Parents must consciously try to be impartial to all children in the home, in spending time with them and in other expressions of love, even though parents are naturally inclined to be fair and just. Love in the home can result in unlimited happiness, but the lack of love is disastrous. Harry Bakwin, writing in the October 1949 issue of Journal of Pediatrics, under the title, "Emotional Deprivation in Infants," states that: Infants under six months of age who have been in an institution for some time present a well-defined picture. The outstanding features are listlessness, emaciation, and pallor, relative immobility, quietness, unresponsiveness to stimuli like a smile or a coo, indifferent appetite, failure to gain weight properly despite ingestion of diets which are entirely adequate. Poor sleep, and appearance of unhappiness, proneness to febrile episodes.... Emotional deprivation in childhood has a tendency to "warp" the child. Children who have been deprived of normal parental love, when placed in the atmosphere of a normal home, are seen to blossom forth with new beauty of body and personality. 'The satisfactions thus obtained, of child and foster or adoptive parents, are reciprocal. Adults who are unloved become most miserable, sometimes mentally ill, and indulge in negative thoughts and attitudes which destroy the spirit of love. The Scope of Love The concept of love and its application is far more than affection 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT running to and from those with close kinship. Love can be extended to all human relationships and to the relationship between man and God. (See John 3:16.) President George Albert Smith was a living example of the power of love and its expression. He was often heard to say: "We must love people into this Church," and there are many examples of his doing just that. The Savior urged his followers to love one another and said that by this characteristic his disciples would be known. A new commandment I give unto you, That you love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another (John 13:34-35). If we have pure love in our hearts, living the gospel is simplified since we have a single purpose. For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an oc: casion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself (Gal. 5:13-14). As love is developed, family members take upon themselves more desirable attributes by which they are attracted to the magnetic pull of perfection. Our earthly homes are but a prelude to the family in eternity. The family with an abundance of true love, whose members are diligent in doing the things they know to be right, will carry their happiness through the veil of death, and as they grow in happiness and perfection they will know that "love is of God" (I John 4:7). 71 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH e@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles —...... 239) 150 to 300 miles —_...... W 2... 39 300 to 600 miles.... 'i 600 to 1000 miles..... 1000 to 1400 miles.... 1400 to 1800 miles... Eee Over 1800 miles....0....00...2.20. Sees eeeeee PF Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah rere 4 Supplementary References 1. The Greatest Thing in the World— Henry Drummond, Thomas Y. Crowell Company. 2. From the Crossroads, R. L. Evans, pages 107-126. 3. "Charity Never Faileth" — George H. Mortimer, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1956, page 644. 4. "Helping Hands"—Flo Whitmore, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1956, page 673. 5. "Objectives of Relief Society" — Mark E. Petersen, The Relief Society Magazine, January 1956, page 4. 6. The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, pp. 799, 802, 803, 805, 814, and 817. Questions for Discussion 1. How can the aspects of love found in I Corinthians, chapter 13, be applied in modern-day living? 2. Cite examples of the influence of love upon the lives of our Church leaders. Of national leaders. 3. Illustrate with general examples the wise bestowal of love upon children. The unwise application of love. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 4. Someone has said, "If you want your children to love you, let them work for you and with you." Discuss. In what ways can children express love for parents? 5. Why is love so important in all family relationships? Discuss its application and influence at the various age levels within the family group. 6. Why is the Relief Society a perfect organization for cultivating and _ spreading the spirit of love? 7. "Lasting Lessons in Spiritual Values," Olga Jones, National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 18. 8. "Baby's Demands and Parents' Desires," Kent A. Zimmerman, M. D., National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 25. If "What Makes a Happy Home," Wilma Boyle Bunker, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, page 93. 10. "It Is Love," Gene Romolo, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, page 122. 11. "I Explore the Upstairs," Zipporah Layton Stewart, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, page 114. 12. "Mother," Dora Toone Brough, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, Page 79- _< Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Two Miss EMMA BANDLEY Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Marcaret PRAETON Burlington, Wyoming Ninety-four Mrs. Mercy Waters PEAY Provo, Utah Mrs. Ciara FIsHER SAMUELS Oakland, California Mrs. Mary J. SEELEY Castle Dale, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Marcaret Jones FIELD Roy, Utah Mrs. Josepuine N. CuHrisTENSON Logan, Utah Mrs. Saray JANE SMITH WALL Santaquin, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. ANNIE GARMET HANSEN Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. ExvizA Marr Heber City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Annie GLADE NUTTALL Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Racuet Crump WILLIAMS Springville, Utah Mrs. Dora GuyMon CRANDALL Springville, Utah Mrs. Annie S. P. KEetcH St. Charles, Idaho JUST PUBLISHED SACRED AND SECULAR PIANO ALBUM Composed and Arranged by Seldon N. Heaps Price $1.00 OTHER FINE SACRED PIANO ALBUMS CHAPEL ECHOES PIANO HYMN VOLUNTARIES TWENTY-FOUR VOLUNTARIES SCHIRMER'S FAVORITE SACRED SONGS INSTRUMENTAL CHURCH SERVICE Selections I and II EIGHTEEN HYMN TRANSCRIPTIONS Concert transcriptions of favorite hymns Also many others which we will be happy to send on approval We carry a complete line of music suggested for the RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake—74 So. Main Ogden—2546 Washington Blvd. Provo—57 No. University NEW ZEALAND Temple Dedication Tour sails from San Francisco on the fabulous Mariposa April 2, 1958. Note: You will be delighted to know that Mrs. Matthew Cowley, who lived in and traveled throughout the South Pacific during the years her husband, the late Matthew Cowley, presided over that mission, will conduct this tour. BUROPZE The definite date for the dedication of the temple in England is not yet known, but we shall have tours to Europe in June, July, and August of 1958. For further information write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 LIVE BETTER ELECTRICALLY with Full HOUSEPOWER Electricity Costs So Little You Can Afford a Lot UTAH POWER & WIGHT co For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES New Classes Begin Soon Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 1. Doctrine and Covenants Study Questions Roy W. Doxey Over twelve thousand questions in this timely book reveal the highlights of The Doctrine and Covenants. References to each question are given, indicating where scriptural answers can be found. Pertt This is an excellent way of studying and determining the significance of scriptural truths. Yee CoeTSF $1.50 2 The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future Roy W. Doxey at An excellent reference book that helps interpret and give insight into basic Church doctrine. It also gives the history of The Doctrine and Covenants and points up the three principal purposes of this Standard Work. An important study book on modern-day scriptures and the conditions under which these truths were revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 3. Doctrine and Covenants Commentary j Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl Passage by passage explanation of The Doctrine and Covenants. An excellent commentary for Church or home study. $4.00 4. Joseph Smith, the Prophet ered to present the most complete biography to date of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The only book of its kind in print it includes sermons and letters 28 of the Prophet as well as valuable information on _ his life and work. 44 East South Temple Salt take City r Gentlemen: Fw os Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 ee ee ee ee a es ce ay Z (Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax.) I | | | | | J Twenty-six years of work have been gathPreston Nibley MA@AZIN A VOL. 45 NO.2- > 07-5 dessons for May / "FEBRUARY 1958 a LZ gE A f Fol | 4 Song for Winterset Lizabeth Wall Madsen Walk gently now into this winter night. Hold in your eyes the filigree of frost Upon the lace of branches and the white Cold footsteps where the ice has lately crossed The river. Memorize the drifts along The fences. And the roadbeds, and the veils That smoke is weaving on the sky, the song Of wind that cries between the pasture rails. Only a little time is left of gray And white, the cool and colorless, the still. Remember it before you walk the way Of sun again to climb a golden hill. Go gently; there is little time to know The brief white healing of the thinning snow. The Cover: The Matterhorn in the Swiss Alps Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: The Grand Tetons, Wyoming Photograph by Josef Muench Cover design by Evan Jensen From Tear and Sar As this is the season for expressing a good wish, I am taking this opportunity to tell you that I think your editorials are masterpieces, not only of English composition, but transcendent in thought. Many thanks for their inspirational beauty. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah There is more information in The Relief Society Magazine than in any other I can get. How you make it up for the low subscription rate is wonderful. The stories are good, but the poems are better. In "Thanksgiving Song,' November 1957, by Margery S. Stewart, I believe is the first expression that I have seen of someone being thankful for nurses and doctors, along with other people and things. Being a nurse, I appreciate that thought. —Eva W. Alsip Middleboro, Kentucky A few years back my dear mother gave me a most wonderful birthday gift. It was a subscription to our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I have enjoyed it so very much and wish to thank my mother and everyone who has made this Magazine possible to me. —Fontella Varney Dearborn, Michigan I want to express how-much I enjoyed the September Relief Society Magazine, and the cover was so interesting to me as I have climbed to the top of that Pagoda (Tiger Pagoda in Hong Kong, China) several times, and the view from the top is breathtaking. The picture brought back many memories of our missionary work in China. —Hazel M. Robertson Provo, Utah I have been an admirer of our wonderful Magazine a year now, since after a visit to a cousin in Provo, Utah. I find many wonderful things in the Magazine, it is a delight to receive it. —Louise Carroll Washington, Michigan Page 74 Thank you for publishing my poem "For You at Christmas" in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. It surely was a thrill to appear in the same Magazine again with Iris W. Schow and Mabel Law Atkinson. We appeared together as winners in the 1951 Eliza R. - Snow Poem Contest. Since then Sister Atkinson and I have become pen pals, and I surely watch for and enjoy everything she writes. I think that Iris W. Schow's poetry shows great talent, it is very rich and deep, the diction is beautiful. Her mother, Eleanor W. Schow, writes with a great depth of feeling and tenderness, so beautifully expressed in "Blessed Among Women," in the December issue. I believe the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine is some of the best I have ever read, and it is an honor to be published in this Magazine. —Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah MY GUEST I have a very special guest Who comes to call and stays, And she is just the sweetest thing— With unpretentious ways.... She has a multitude of friends, But she still has time to spare; I know she would come into your home, If you'd invite her there. Please subscribe to your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE —Arlene L. Guy Manteca, California We all enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much out here in the mission field. It is the "bridge" or "path" over which we can travel right into the very hearts and homes of the sisters everywhere. —Flo Cole Dewey, Oklahoma Each issue of The Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful help, and gives one so much inspiration. I especially enjoy the editorials. —Camille C. Nuffer Bozeman, Montana THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson "Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. BD er Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - = - oS c 5 - - = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 FEBRUARY 1958 NO. 2 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Family Unity ——— ee Dantzel W. Nelson 76 The Swiss-Austrian Mission o. I.... C. Cccccec ccc ec ccecesecceeeececeeceeececeeceesconeseesvoneensaseseeneaeeeeseeePreston R. Nibley 88 A Relief Society Tribute.....20...... I. Maurine R. Goold 100 Joy in Service ooo... Cece cece cece ee —. Jennie Brown Rawlins 100 We Are All Alike—But Different.. Il. Elsie C. Carroll 109 On Starting the Day Right oo... CceceecccceeceseteeececeeseeeeseceseeesceeeeseneeessseensanecveceueeeeWilma Boyle Bunker 113 Life Is Not a Holiday. Anne S. W. Gould 118 Fifty Singing Aprils—Second Prize Story......... _ Mabel Law Atkinson 80 Never Wish for the Moon ooo. Cceccec cece ceseseesenscesecessseneescseeesscoseensccsnatececersseeseeseceeeeeDorothy S. Romney 90 The Gift and the Giver —......00 0.0... A Frances C. Yost 104 Elizabeth's Children—Chapter II Olive W. Burt 114 From Near and Far 74 Sixty Years Ago SS ee... Ee. - 96 Woman's Sphere......... A aRamona W. Cannon 97 Editorial: ''Be My Valemtime' 2... Ccceec cece cceseeccecseececceseacesenenececenecesnensecesseecosMarianne C. Sharp 98 Birthday Congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman 99 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 0.020... Hulda Parker 119 Birthday Congratulations 2......222.--2-c-cceceeecceeeeececeeeeeeeeeeceteeeeeeeeeeee: 144 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Swiss-Austrian Mission............ Ecesssseeeseseee-ccoeeees LaVelle D. Curtis 101 Mary Bauer Clark Makes Quilts of Exquisite Workmanship.. 103 Scissor Happy 2....... Cecececccecescccssseescoseeescssseceasceecsessseceneecsoeeenes. Helen H. Jones 108 An Easy Way to Make Rugs oon. Cece ceseesceceseeeeccseneeseeeneeee Eugenie Daniels 110 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Restoration of the Raronic Priesthood ooo cece cecesceeecsceecseeenenseeeeeeRoy W. Doxey 124 Visiting Teacher Messages: "'.. Be Faithful and Diligent in Keeping the Commandments of God 20) ieececeseececeeneeeeseeens Christine H. Robinson 129 Work Meeting: Debts and Truble eeWilliam F. Edwards 130 Literature: The Tempest — W000... Briant S. Jacobs 132 Social Science: Families Have Neighbors 22.0.0.... SssssescsceseecsseneesecesseeescenesseeseeceseeesJohn Farr Larson 138 POETRY Song for Winterset—Frontispiece Lizabeth Wall Madsen 73 Winter Etching oo. Eee cectee cseeceescsesecsscceneeseeecseecsuseeeessoeeanavessesenecsearesvereeceseatecesenenaveceatesGrace Ingles Frost 79 Loneliness oo. Ceeeeecccceeccecesseceseeeeescoeeeeee.. Linda Crane 79 Refuge ms LE aaaHazel Loomis 86 Assignment for TOMOrrOW oocsesssssscscsssssessssessesssssvvessseesevovsevees sseesae nessesMabel Jones Gabbott 87 This One Day once. Ccecececseeeecceceoeececneeeeeeeeees — swues---Constance Timberlake 99 On Entering a Small Boy in the feacital - nenElsie M. Strachan 102 Heart's Oasis oo... Ecceceecceeeeeeseeeeee seen ee aEva Willes Wangsgaard 103 To a Child Pushing a DollCarriage - Ida Elaine James 108 ROPES -..._... Sccec-cscsesssnececeasoncevsensnevensacnevevenserccececuscecesecsscerouscaesenenausneneassencsaseassnsersorneesernseseseversseHelen H. Winn 113 Winter Time........... PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE 'GENERAL 'BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of 'October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 75 Family Unity Dantzel W. Nelson S the only male member in our family of seven, our Daddy is slightly outnumbered. He also has to be a bit of a Solomon to help smooth over the temperamental crises that arise. In our family, Daddy acts as the steadying influence in keeping family unity in our home. It can _ be noticed first thing in the morning when the "good fairies" (including Daddy) scurry around straightening beds while Mother is preparing breakfast. With much praise and exclaiming from Mother, a happy feeling of accomplishment prevails at breakfast, and thence into family prayer which is called to order by the ringing of a little bell, the sole use of which is to call the family together. To ring the family prayer bell is a privilege, enjoyed especially by two-year-old Sylvia. Family prayer constitutes an important support for unity in our home, for it is evident that "The family that prays together, stays together." Morning and night, and at mealtimes we unitedly give our thanks for our many blessings and pray for the righteous desires of our hearts. The opportunity of being leader is given to each in turn. Of course, with our Daddy being a doctor, his work frequently prohibits his being with us, but we still are a family and try to carry on the same without him as when he is here. We do strive to be all together at least once a day, and it usually is for the evening meal. As a family, we celebrate as many occasions as possible with a party. Page 76 We find that we have our most fun and satisfaction preparing and _planning to please other members of the family. Even our Family Hour has become more successful since it has been known as our "Family Party." One night a week, we try to have our Family Party. It begins early in the day, as one of the four oldest girls is to plan the menu and help prepare dinner for that night. Whatever she prepares for dessert, we use as refreshments at the end of our party. It's amazing how everyone tries her best to eat all that has been prepared so our little cook for the evening won't be disappointed. Of course, the cook is so pleased if everyone enjoys her masterpieces. As of the present, Mother has to give a few hints and a bit of help, but it won't be too long before all the girls can plan and prepare a meal with skill. Marsha, our nine-year-old, presents an especially well-prepared dinner already, and with very little assistance. After dinner, our party begins with prayer and then opens with the business portion. Responsibilities are delegated, and problems are discussed at this time. Recently, for example, the discussion evolved around the change in bedrooms and sleeping companions necessitated by the expectation of a little newcomer into our family circle. Following the business portion is the program where the children each participate. They tell a story they have heard in school, or sing a song, or play the piano. Wendy, age six, and Gloria, age five, especially enjoy acting out FAMILY UNITY DR. RUSSELL M. NELSON AND HIS FAMILY Left to right: Gloria; Wendy; Dr. Nelson; Dantzel White Nelson, holding Sylvia; Marsha; Brenda. Nursery rhymes. The family must guess what they are attempting to depict. Brenda, age three, likes to dance to a record. Then, after closing prayer, we have our refreshments, and after a quick cleanup, the girls are all tucked into bed. Not every family might is conducted in this manner. For variety, we may watch home movies, or visit other members of our families, or on special occasions, such as Christmas, we may decorate the tree, prepare homemade gifts, or sing carols together. BIRTHDAYS provide another important time for family celebrations. 'These are days when we try to give special attention to one in particular; something that is otherwise difficult to achieve in a large family. Even if the birthday gitl is only one-year-old, she has her own birthday cake and a party, with small gifts from each of her sisters. We blow up balloons and _ sing "Happy Birthday" after a family dinner. Grandparents, uncles, aunts, and cousins are invited to come in during the evening for cake and ice cream. For the older girls, friends are included as well, if this is their desire. Sisters are always included in the party and bring small gifts as do all of the invited guests. Daddy usually gets home for the end of the party and takes pictures so each one may have a record of her birthday event. In twelve years of married life, we have moved seven times, including sojourns from Salt Lake City to Minneapolis, to Washington, D. C., to Boston, to Minneapolis, and finally, back to Salt Lake City. As a consequence, the move has usually represented the only vacation time that we have had. We have always moved together, and our trips in the car have been most enjoyable. Recently, we motored to the Zion, Grand Canyon, and Bryce national parks. Such excursions constitute an unexcelled opportunity to learn to get along with each other and the lessons of tolerance and adaptability. On-the-spot education relating to points of interest in the history of our country and Church has been possible at places like Provincetown, Plymouth, Palmyra, Kirtland, Nauvoo, and many other interesting sites. For nearly four years, we have traveled in our station wagon, that is expertly packed by our Daddy with a "bedroom" in the back, "sitting room" in the middle, and with Mother and Daddy in the front. Each child gets a turn at each place. We spice up the monotony of travel by playing games; mostly guessing games. Particular favorites are the singing games where each one gets a turn to hum a song while the others hasten to state the name of it. For diversion, a surprise sack is prepared before departure in which are individually wrapped surprises, such as tiny dolls, crayons and coloring books, puzzles, bright shiny measuring spoons for the baby; anything that will keep them occupied. 'These are given out one at a time when tempers begin to flare and little backs get tired of sitting. Often, this has saved the day and helped restore peace to troubled tots. What a thrill it was to take our sweet little girls to see the Salt Lake, St. George, and Manti temples; to answer their questions and explain that, because of the temple martiage of their Mother and Daddy, we may be privileged to continue our family relationships into the eternities ahead, if we keep ourselves worthy. Never has there been such a feeling of closeness in our family, and how thrilled we were when our oldest girl said, "When I grow up, I'm going to marry someone like Daddy in the temple; then we can always be together, too." How we hope and pray each day that she and her sisters will all prepare to achieve this goal! Tis a wonderful thing for children to have a Father who really enjoys his children; a Father who is vitally concerned about their spiritual, as well as physical, well-being. The girls look forward to his coming home. He washes their hair, helps teach them cleanliness, plays with them, and even takes them on special trips with him. Our oldest gitls have each had a trip with their Daddy when he has traveled out of the State on speaking engagements. They have journeyed by train, taxi, and plane, and these trips are something they never will forget. Not only is it educational for them, but they get the opportunity to become better acquainted with their Daddy. They come back with a new love for each other and an understanding that comes from being treated "like a princess." It is such a good way to get close to each other in a way they can't do at home when Daddy has to be divided five ways. At home, we try to get special time alone with each child, but it is difficult to get away from doctor's duties, home duties, and Church duties, etc. Long enough to spend much individual attention on each child. 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 FAMILY UNITY Many things we do in our family would be rather difficult to carry out in a home where children are older, but certainly the feeling of love and unity can be cultivated in any home. We find it better to welcome our children's friends here and provide space and equipment for them, than to worry about where each one is playing away from home. A good friend once said, "Be grateful and enjoy your children while they are young. You can tuck them all in at night and know they are safe. In a few years, other worries will start. Each child will go her own way and then you will have worries." While this is undoubtedly true, we hope to build a founda- 79 tion of trust and love for each other that will carry us through the future. Only time itself will tell us if we have succeeded. Certainly, we have problems that must be faced and many that have not been solved. There is one source that is a constant guide to us — the gospel of Jesus Christ. 'The messages of our prophets today that we all hear each Sunday as we attend Sunday School and sacrament meeting together are a constant inspiration and source of ideas. The Auxiliaries help us; our faith helps us; and our prayers help us. We constantly hope that our home will be a home of love, unity, and dedication to the teachings of our Savior. —e~<>--— Winter &tiching Grace Ingles Frost Like folds of white chiffon, a morning mist Wraps itself about the mountain heights, As if to hide from view their nudity, Then billows out across an inland sea, To mingle with the spindrift and the gulls That cry their disapproval raucously, Till shot by shafts of sun it disappears In beauty to remember through the years. Loneliness Linda Crane Alone, and in the loneliness I see The loneliness of others. It may be They're sensing, too, within each silent heart The walls eternal, locking us apart. Their eyes, alleged windows to the soul, Remain opaque — conceal their truest goal. We share our tears, our happiness, our fears, And yet remain alone through endless years. Each treads a private world, sails his own sea. On courses separate, lone, eternally. But when I call to him from humble knee My loneliness is gone, he walks with me. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Fifty Singing Aprils Mabel Law Atkinson MABEL LAW ATKINSON FLASH of cerulean blue wings through the lacy, greening limbs of the old black willow and a lark-flute calling from the fence post announced to Susan Barclay that spring had come. "Another singing April!" she said softly to no one in_ particular. "Another singing April, and I have a letter to write this morning!" Her step was buoyant as she walked the winding path of stepping stones from her back garden to her kitchen door, noticing the bordering tulips still in their green nightcaps, and the snow-on-thePage 80 mountain just beginning to send out its green tendrils. A half hour later, she was sitting at her desk when the doorbell rang. She looked up to greet four smiling little boys. "Happy anniversary, Grandma they called in unison. Then Rodney, the oldest of the four, continued, "We brought our gift early so you can enjoy it all day, you and Grandpa." "Daffodils!" exclaimed Susan. "My favorite April flowers! A splash of sunshine, I call them. And so many!" "There are two dozen, Grandma, for I counted them." Eight-year-old Robert's face was as radiant as the yellow blooms. "Two dozen! And so beautiful! Let's put them in this large blue swan, with its frog, so each flower will get its proper share of attention. 'There now, spring is in my room." Susan gave each a kiss and felt little arms about her. Even thirteen-year-old Rodney was not too big to receive and give affection. "Why, Grandma, you were writing a letter to Grandpa, and he isn't away from home. I saw him in the yard when we came." It was tenyear-old Richard who spoke. "Yes, my dear, I always write a letter to your grandpa on our anniversary." (P4 FIFTY SINGING APRILS "Do you mean you've written Grandpa forty-nine letters before this one? This is your Golden Wedding, you know." Incredulity was in Rodney's voice. "And he has been right at home with you every time?" "He has been away a few times." "But why do you do it, Grandma?" asked Richard. "Because he wanted me _ to." Susan's eyes were twinkling reminiscently as she explained, "We had been married but one week when your grandpa said, 'Susan, only one regret I have, and that is that I shall not be getting letters from you now. Yours were wonderful letters, darling. I can't give them up entirely.' Before he could finish I said laughingly, 'All right, I'll write you sometime, say on our first anniversary.' "' "And it ended up by your writing a letter each anniversary." Rodney's quick mind anticipated what she was going to say. "Yes, Rodney, it turned out that way." Later, after the boys had gone, their hands filled with cookies, and wee Johnny's pockets bulging, too, Susan Barclay sat down to finish her letter. She was thinking how blessed she was to have Aileen and her family living in the same town. The four little Randals, as she called them lovingly, were like the sunshine of spring no matter what the weather. She picked up her pen, but sat idly musing, "Fifty joyous years together! I wonder what John will give me_ today. Something special, I am sure. And to think that tonight our five children will be here, and our grandchildren, too!" 81 "Fifty years together!" she wrote. "Can it be possible! Fifty good, strong, and beautiful years, each with a harvest of its own, yet each a part of one great harvest!" She lifted her pen, looked far away for a moment, then continued writing, "Remember, John, how those teachers at college urged me not to marry?" Again she heard the voice of Miss Janfrey, her creative writing teacher, "Marriage is not for you, Miss Lee. Any woman can marry and raise a family. You must go on unhampered with your career. The world has a right to demand this of you. With your talents, you must influence the race not just a child or two of your own." Her pen was moving again, "Remember how you laughed, John, when I told you that I had said to her, that my highest ambition was to get married and have a family?" 66 ANP get married we did, and we have our family. 'Tell me, Susan, have you one little regret or feeling of frustration?" It was John who spoke. He had come in quietly and had been reading over her shoulder. "I did not really intend to snoop, you know, not really," he explained. Seeing his slight flush of chagrin, Susan consoled him with, "I forgive you, John. And let your mind be at ease, for I haven't any regrets or frustrations. What if I haven't written books, painted pictures, or become a great vocalist? I have created beauty by giving smiles to my children's faces; making little pinafores and shirts; and never once have I taken the brown loaves from the oven without experiencing the thnill and beauty of creation." "And you have sung lullabies, and solos in church." John continued her line of thought. "You know, my dear, you were the most beautiful of all to me singing a lullaby to a new, little pink-faced guest from heaven, with other little ones about you, wonder in their eyes." "And always you completed the picture. Don't you see, a living work of art? But now, out with you, John, or I shall never get your letter finished." Still he lingered and said reminiscently, "It seems but yesterday that you wrote me my first anniversary letter, and it was such a masterpiece, giving the beauty and strength I needed, that I asked you to write me each year as your gift to me. I have all your letters, Susan, every one. They build my morale even now, for in them you seem to forget my failures. Always you have been my inspiration." Susan interrupted him, "And you have been my _ strength. There have been no failures, John, no real failures. 'Time is proving that more and more." "Thank you, my dear." And with a light kiss on her forehead he was gone. Susan sat motionless for a while, a half-smile playing upon her features. Then her pen broke the silence with its rhythmic strokes, "Did you know you are a handsome man, John, that age is becoming to you? And you have been handsome all through the years, not with the flawless perfection of features, but with a certain rugged and honest beauty reflecting the sincerity of your soul. Now, in recalling the past years, never have you been more handsome, your countenance hit by a light from within, than you were that afternoon when I returned from seeing Dr. Eliason and he had assured me that another baby was coming, our third. Do you remember, John? "T shall never forget. That had been our poverty year, but clouds were lifting, and our budget showed we could afford you a new overcoat. Remember how I had mended the old one, the one you had before we were married? As I told my news, I watched your face closely to see if the slightest shadow would cross it to dim the exultance I felt. Not a flicker of a shadow, John! But the sun in full glory! You said, 'Mend my old overcoat once more, Mother. Pil wear it another year, and wear it proudly.' " Susan finished her letter and gave it to John at lunch time. His tender smile and his kiss after reading it told her his heart was satisfied. As the hours sped happily, Susan's heart never once stopped singing, but she wondered what John was up to in delaying giving her his gift. She knew he had not forgotten, but had purposely timed its giving. So, although her anticipation increased, she felt no anxiety whatever. She could wait, for she knew her John. WR OK Ok OK é 'T GUESS it's a good thing you didn't have any more children, Grandma Susan, you and Grandpa, or where would you have put us all?" It was seventeen-year-old Patty who asked the question, her eyes surveying the one long table and the two small ones with the family seated around them. 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 FIFTY SINGING APRILS "Why, that's easy to answer. Grandma would set a table in the kitchen, too, if there were more of us," volunteered twelve-year-old Janet. "And in the bedroom, too, if she needed!" said four-year-old Jamie. "Wouldn't you, Grandma?" "At any rate she would never leave any of us out." Rodney spoke with conviction. "Now it's time for the candlelighting ceremony! Boy, oh, boy!" cried Robert a half hour later while Susan's daughters removed the dinner plates. "Then come the ice cream and the cake!" cried Richard. "The best of all!" Father and Mother Barclay lighted the fifty candles, all of them, and John, Jr. Turned out the lights in the room. As the candles burned, each one in turn, even two-year-old little Susie spoke a wish for the honored pair. "Now to see if your wishes will come true!' cried several grandchildren in chorus. John and Susan stood up, leaned over the cake and, with one united blow, extinguished every candle. "That is teamwork for you, the result of pulling together for fifty years." Grandpa's voice held overtones of love, and he placed his arm about his wife as he spoke. "Grandma Susan, what did Grandpa give you?" asked Patty innocently. "'I haven't heard you say, and none of the gifts on your chest bear his name. You didn't forget her, did you Grandpa John?" Grandpa smiled tantalizingly as he answered, "I don't have to give her a gift this year, do I? Surely 83 when I've given her forty-nine of them I should be exempt this time. Don't you think so, Susan?" Without hesitation his wife answered, "You have done very well, Iam sure." But the twinkle in her eyes spoke her faith that a fiftieth gift was forthcoming. Pe. Jr. Was master of ceremonies for the program which followed in which everyone participated. "Bless their talented hearts," said Mother Barclay as their grandchildren sang a melody of loved childhood songs. The in-laws brought laughter with their rollicking song, "When Grandpa Courted Grandma," the words having been written by Francine and the music by Gordon. Father Barclay cleared his throat a time or two, and Mother wiped her eyes while John, Jr. Gave the "Life History of John and Susan Barclay," concluding with, "So Father worked joyously and unceasingly to feed and clothe and educate us, and Mother gave up her career of being a writer, musician, and artist to create boys and girls and men and women." Father blew his nose then, and the tears ran gently down Mother's cheeks. After Francine had given the story she, herself, had written for the occasion, Gordon played old loved melodies on the organ around which they had sung in childhood. Then Aileen and Janice sang "I Love You Truly," followed by "This Day Is the Beginning Not the Ending," another creation by Francine and Gordon. When Mother Barclay arose to speak, Patty, with shining eyes, exclamed in an audible whisper, "Isn't Grandma Susan beautiful! Why, she looks young as a girl!" "Thank you, Patty dear," was Susan Barclay's introduction, "I think I feel as young in spirit as you tonight." Then, facing them all, she continued, "I am a proud and blessed mother and grandmother. Proud of each one of you. John, Jr. Has told you of my girlhood dreams. I have found fulfillment of them all in you children; | am writing my poems and stories through you, Francine, and you, John; singing through you, Janice and Aileen; and playing my music through your fingers, Gordon." Her eyes took on a faraway look of tenderness, and she continued, "And I think I am painting my pictures through the artist hands of my own son in heaven. And I shall continue these activities through you, my grandchildren." ©NAOTHER doesn't need to be known through the work of you children. She is already an author of merit in her_own right," John announced. Susan looked quickly and inquiringly at John as he continued, "In proof of this, I now present my gift to you, Mother." He handed his wife a small, neatly wrapped parcel. "Here, Susan, I hope you like it." Susan's fingers were trembling with eagerness and excitement as she removed the ribbon and tissue to reveal a book, beautiful with its restful blue jacket with the words, Fifty Singing Aprils, by Susan Barclay staring out at her. She could not speak, but when she removed the jacket and saw the subdued gray-blue cover, with its silver writing, she gasped, "The very colors I would have chosen!" "Tell the children about it, Susan," her husband prompted tenderly. "You do it, John, please." Mother Barclay's joy welled from her brimming heart to her eyes and ran in slow tears down her cheeks. "This book is entitled Fifty Singing Aprils, and was written by your mother, Susan Barclay, as it says here." He held up the book for them to see. "Most of you know that Mother has written me an anniversary letter each year. Nearly a year ago when I was rereading them, their literary merit struck me forcibly. Your mother, in a style that to me seemed perfect, had really written the history of our years of joyous struggle together. It came to me she had given a pattern for successful married life which could profitably be read by young and old. "You remember, Susan, when I was gone those three days those months ago? That was when I took your letters to find out what value those who knew would place on them. I went first to a highly recommended family counselor. He glanced through them and was all interest as he requested, 'Leave these with me till tomorrow, will you? I want to read every word. Come back in the morning and I will give you my opinion of their value.' "' "Oh, John, did he really?" interrupted his wife. "He did, my dear, for when I returned he said, "These should be published in book form and made 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 FIFTY SINGING APRILS available to the public. Such a book is one of the most needed additions to the literature on family living, for herein is the story of a sound, normal, happy, and _ lasting marriage. Such detailed pictures of wholesome family life with its joys and occasional sorrows are almost nonexistent. 'These letters give the story of a family whose budget was never large, yet who enjoyed celebrations which sometimes consisted of a simple picnic lunch eaten in a canyon or even their own back yard, with perhaps a book of poetry or a story to read, or games with the children—a way in which we all should emphasize our happiness more frequently by looking for the simple realities that can make life more worthwhile, then sharing them. 'The parents in this family have the values of life straight, and hold that the greatest of all vocations is parenthood.' You see I've been reading this from the flap of the jacket. "Buoyed up with this encouragement, I went to the publishing house." "And what did they think, John?" Y dear, this book is evidence of what they thought. And listen, Mother, they published your book on the royalty basis. They have that much faith in it. All I had to put out was the cash to pay for the books I ordered for myself. And what is more, Mother, you will receive thirty per cent royalty on all sales, and it may be a best seller." "Surely not, John!" "The publishers think so, Susan. And I must tell you they did not change one word of your letters. Here, I'll read part of their com- 85 ment—on the other flap—'Here we have the work of an artist with words which at times flow with the lyric imagery of poetry, and always with beauty.' "So, little Mother, you are a writer and may yet be famous. And, who knows, you may achieve in music and painting, too. You have time for study now and to do the things you love. We have good years ahead of us, Susan." John Barclay spoke directly to his posterity then, "I have your mother's book for each of you. Come, Patty, Janet, and Rodney, you may help me pass them out." He took them into his room. In a few moments they returned with the precious books. Janet was giggling as she said, "Bet you wish you knew where these books were hidden, Grandma!" But her remark went unchallenged in the excitement of turning pages. "But how could Grandma Susan write her fiftieth anniversary letter before the anniversary was here?" Wonder was in Patty's voice. With young-girl eagerness, she had openened her book at the back to get the ending. John Barclay smiled, sent the silent message to Susan that he knew she would understand, and _ said, "You see I could not be left entirely out of the book—as a writer I mean—so I wrote the last letter for her." Instantly all turned to the last letter, Susan first of all. 'This is what she read: "Our Fiftieth Singing April! The best and most rewarding of them all: the anniversary with its shining halo of dreams ful- filled, and its prophecy of new dreams yet to be spun. "Fifty joyous years, fifty Singing Aprils, have proved the truth of my philosophy that life is beautiful and earth can be heaven." "Father, you are a writer, too." It was John, Jr. Who spoke, his voice husky with emotion. Later, John and Susan stood by their front gate in the moonlight till their dear ones could no longer be seen or heard. As they walked arm in arm to the house, the air fragrant with hyacinths in _ their garden, John asked, "'Satisfied, Susan?" After fifty years his voice still fell like music on her ears. "Yes, dear, more than satisfied. To think that by giving up one career for a greater one, I have achieved both. And always there will be another Singing April, for eternity is forever." Mabel Law Atkinson, Dayton, Idaho, began writing poetry in childhood, and some of these poems were published. However, it was not until 1950 that she again began to publish her work. She has received many awards for her poems, stories, and radio scripts, some of these awards being in national contests. A graduate of two poetry classes (after she was fifty) by correspondence, she is a member of the American Poetry League, Avalon, Idaho Writers League, Midwest Chaparral Poets, Word Weavers, and Ars Poetica. She is the author of a brochure and two books of poetry: Portrait of Mother, Inviolate Eden, and Touch of Wings. The wife of Earl J. Atkinson, she is the mother of three daughters and two sons, the eldest of whom died in 1942. She has served the Church in many capacities in the Auxiliary organizations. Refuge Hazel Loomis Where mallards soar and feast in marshes, Where muskrats swim and beavers make their home, The noble moose in rapt reflection pauses To stand as silent as a stone. Where bear will come to feast on berries And cubs will wrestle playfully; The gaunt coyote starved on the prairies Grows sleek and beautiful to see. Where come the geese so wildly honking, Without fear of man or gun, Their body boats, pink feet paddling, Scarce a ripple they move on. Where comes the stag, great antlers lifting, Moving proudly as a king, Throws back his head, his bugle sounding— Shrill echoes from the forest ring. On polished hooves, the spotted fawn Has come, and sure as sun, the timid doe! Would all the world might come And water at the Bow. 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Don Knight CALLA LILIES -_- Assignment for Ala aaeeecie Mabel Jones Gabbott Listen for the sounds of peace; But listen closely, lest they cease To be familiar, be a part Of this world's overburdened heart. Tune your hearing once again To autumn rustling in a glen, To soft waves lapping on a shore, To rain on rooftops and the roar Of thunder falling down the sky, A child's quick laugh, a lover's sigh, A mother's small caressing song; Oh, listen closely, listen long For gentleness and patient tone, Or carefree noise from lads half-grown... Tomorrow, morrow, never cease To listen for the sounds of peace. Paqe 87 the Swiss-Austrian TTlission Preston R. N ibley Assistant Church Historian Al a mecting held in Frankfurt, Germany, on October 6, 1937, attended by Elders 'Thomas E. McKay, Alfred C. Rees, and Philemon C. Kelly, the Swiss-German Mission was divided into three missions, the East German, the West German, and the Swiss-Austrian. Thomas E;. McKay became the president of the Swiss-Austrian Mission, with headquarters in Basel, Switzerland. At the time of its organization, the Swiss-Austrian Mission comprised the German-speaking part of Switzerland, the province of Alsace Lorraine, and the country of Austria. The membership of the Verlag Beringer & Pampaluchi Photograph submitted by LaVelle D. Curtis Church in the mission numbered 1881. World War IT broke out in September 1939 and was soon raging in great fury. Missionary work was completely disrupted in Austria and Alsace Lorraine. Fortunately, the little country of Switzerland remained neutral and missionary work was continued, though very much curtailed. President 'Thomas E. McKay of the Swiss-Austrian Mission was released to return home in February 1940, and Elder Max Zimmer of Basel was appointed acting mission president; Elder Zimmer served until May 1946, when he was succeedBERN AND THE ALPS, SWITZERLAND Page 88 THE SWISS-AUSTRIAN MISSION Photograph by George Thomas Elliott Submitted by LaVelle D. Curtis 89 £4 3 2k BRIDGE ACROSS THE VIERWALDSTADTER, LUCERN, SWITZERLAND Beneath the gables of this famous bridge are many paintings depicting the history and legends of the surrounding country. Ed by Elder Scott Taggart of Salt Lake City; President Taggart served until January 1949, when he was succeeded by Elder Samuel Bringhurst; President Bringhurst presided until December 1952, when he was succeeded by William F. Perschon; President Perschon presided until July 1956, when he was succeeded by Jesse R. Curtis, who presides at the present time. On August 5, 1953, President David O. McKay dedicated, at Bern, Switzerland, the site for the first temple to be built by the Church in Europe. Construction work went forward rapidly, and on September 11, 1955, in the presence of a large number of Latterday Saints and amidst the most solemn ceremonies, the temple was dedicated by President McKay. At the end of October 1957, there were 3,078 members of the Church in the Swiss-Austrian Mission, located in twenty-nine branches. 'Thirty-three Relief Society organizations, with 528 members were reported in December 1956. LaVelle D. Curtis presides over the Swiss-Austrian Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, The Matterhorn in the Swiss Alps, Photograph by Josef Muench, is typical of the mountain grandeur of Switzerland and Austria. See also "Recipes From the Swiss-German Mission," 101, by LaVelle D, Curtis on page Never Wish for the Moon Dorothy S. Romney ORNA carefully tucked her drowsy baby into his crib and tiptoed out of the nursery. Sleeping in his high chair took the edge off his drowsiness, and he sometimes wakened and missed his nap completely. This, she thought grimly, was not the morning for a missed nap. Fortunately, she had caught him just as he was beginning to nod, and he had slept through the transfer. She took an unhappy look at the mess in the living room. No one but another mother of two small boys would believe she had cleaned it thoroughly yesterday. Lorna made a mental schedule of all she had to do before Bill brought his out-of-town clients home for dinner at six-thirty—a horrible hour for guests! "Living room and dinette, forty-five minutes: pies—one hour; feed young Bill—half an hour; type Bill's brief—one hour; Primary—two hours, including prayer meeting, and traveling time. Cut flowers, clean the bathroom, make beds, hang out wash, press a dress, set the table." And then she remembered! She hadn't as yet prepared her activity for her class today. She'd intended to cut the sticks from the poplar trees in her backyard yesterday, but it had rained—sticks for the windmills she had promised the children would be today's activity. Even a mathematician like Lorna could realize, almost immediately, that there weren't enough hours in any one day to do all of it. "Something's got to go," she told herself, Page 90 "and there's only one thing that can—Primary." It would be embarrassing, when she had expressed her opinion so often of teachers who called at the last minute with excuses. "But what else can I do?" she asked herself. Bill's career was important. As a struggling young lawyer, he needed all the help she could give him, both in typing his briefs, and entertaining his customers. As she walked to her typewriter she glanced through the window, and saw Hilda, the Brooks' maid, sweeping their front sidewalk. Now if I were the wife of a successful doctor, and lucky enough to have a maid, I could spend all afternoon reading, and greet my guests fresh as a daisy, she thought, somewhat bitterly. Maybe I could get Nell Brooks to teach my Primary class. But of course she couldn't—that had been tried before—and Nell always had a lame excuse why she couldn't serve on different committees. Lorna felt a little ashamed of herself for these thoughts. After all, Nell had been kind enough to take Ricky to the park this morning, to keep him out from under Lorna's feet. And she was a lovely person —a little hard to get acquainted with, but very pleasant. Thé Brooks had recently moved from Lorna's home town, and although she hadn't known Nell or any of her family there, she felt she had some home folks near, NEVER WISH FOR THE MOON She thoughtfully inserted paper in her typewriter. 'The machine buzzed on in the silence of the almost deserted neighborhood, and she was halfway through the "whereases" and the "party-of-the-first-parts," when the commotion began. She heard a car stop in front of the house. She looked out. Nell and her two boys and Ricky got out. Ricky was wailing loudly. Lorna left her typewriter and rushed out. "Don't be alarmed," Nell said, "it's nothing serious. I took them through the zoo, and a tiger growled and frightened Ricky. He ran, stumbled, and hurt his knee. He wanted you." "Oh, is that all?" Lorna. Asked, relieved. She bent down and Ricky hugged her tight, his hands grimy. "The tigers won't hurt you, darling, they're safely locked in cages." The knee was scarcely scratched. "Come on," Nell said, extending her hand to the now smiling Ricky, "we'll have lunch at my house." When he hesitated, she offered, "Pink lemonade." She knew he could never resist pink lemonade. "Oh, thank you,' Lorna said gratefully. "The baby just went to sleep, and I've Bill's brief to type...." "It's nothing," Nell cut in, looking slightly embarrassed at Lorna's gratitude. "Besides, think of the peace and quiet I'll have while my two wild Indians are at Primary with you. 'Trading them for an hour with your adorable Bill is the best exchange ever." Lorna didn't have the courage to tell Nell just then that she was considering calling Sister Lambert and begging off Primary today. She was 91 glad when Nell and the boys disappeared through the opening in the hedge. She frowned as she walked back into the disorderly living room. She could see through the dinette to the kitchen, where the breakfast dishes were stacked and awaiting their turn. The hands of the clock pointed to ten. LORNA sat down again, and typed so fast her fingers almost tripped over each other. About one o'clock Bill popped in to pick up his papers. He took a dismayed look at the living room. "Tl get at it as soon as the baby wakes up and I dare use the vacuum," she assured him. "But sixthirty is so early. Couldn't you stall them until seven? Take a tour of the city, or something." "Tl try," he promised. His only comment on the papers she had typed so carefully and painstakingly was to look at the backs of the sheets and say, "Good girl! You got the carbons in right side to this time!" She still hadn't called Sister Lambert. She promised herself she'd do it the minute she finished the breakfast dishes and washed the best china which hadn't been used for so long it was dusty. She almost dropped one of the plates—$2.75 each and out of stock now—a wedding present—when the phone rang. It was Sister Lambert. "Could you possibly take Sister Martin's class in with yours today?" she asked. "Her mother has taken ile? When Lorna didn't reply immediately, she urged. "There are only four of them, you know." "Yes, I know," Lorna answered. They were the Rainbows, the class next to Lorna's in age, and fitted in with her own class best, but four more, and today of all days! She knew the disappointment of the children when their teacher didn't report. Her mind was in a turmoil. "Tl take them," she finally said. She just couldn't voice her excuse — especially now when Sister Martin wouldn't be there. She should have known all along that her training and ideals wouldn't let her bow out for so trivial a matter as a dinner. "And, Lorna," Sister Lambert added, "would you mind picking up the Martin girls? My car is full to capacity." "Tll remember them." It would mean leaving fifteen minutes earlier than usual. Baby Bill started crying lustily. "Not already," Lorna moaned, but there he was wide awake and demanding attention. She gathered him up in her arms, held him tight, grateful for moments like this, when she could make her children feel more secure in this rapidly moving world. ER tasks loomed ahead of her, mountainous and insurmountable. Her thoughts went to Nell again, and her carefree mode of living. Why — she led almost a little girl's existence, no responsibilities or tasks. She was a charming person, but after all, what else did she have to do except be charming? Lorna wondered then if Nell had the deep satisfaction from life that she herself had. Just then Ricky banged the back door. "Hi, darling," Lorna greeted him. "Home already?" "Uhhuh," he agreed, and Lorna thought she detected a storm brewing. "You didn't quarrel with Jeffry or Ned?" Lorna asked. "Naw, there wasn't anything to do over there," he answered. "Want to help mother?" she asked. "What with?" Ricky had his father's measure of caution. "Cutting windmills for Primary." She hoped it sounded exciting to him. "Okay." She got some paper. She'd draw the patterns. For a_ five-year-old, Ricky was very expert at manipulating scissors if he had lines to follow. She could see through the kitchen window that Nell was reading a magazine in her hammock, a daily practice while her boys napped. "How can she content herself with being such a drone?" Lorna asked herself for the hundredth time. Going out to dinner several times a month with the doctor and the boys seemed to be her only recreation or change. Lorna caught herself up angrily. Was she criticizing Nell? Or was she envious of her carefree existence? Whichever it was, it would never do. "My hand's getting tired," Ricky complained. "All right, we'll go out and cut the sticks," Lorna answered. "May I carry the knife?" he asked. "You may, but don't open it." Bill was released from his high 92 'RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 NEVER WISH FOR THE MOON chair. He followed along, his footsteps uncertain. Nell looked up from her magazine and waved. By the time the sticks were cut, Ricky had lost interest and disappeared through the hedge, and Lorna could see him talking to Nell, who, it seemed, had finished her reading and was simply sitting. What a pity to waste so much precious time, Lorna thought. Once back in the house, she put Bill in his play pen. She counted the paper windmills Ricky had cut. There were fourteen. She hastily cut eight more. OW to the housecleaning! 'T'wo hours later she sat down to recapitulate. Roast almost cooked in the electric roaster (she'd add potatoes and turn it on low again before she went to Primary). There'd be the table to set. Iced tomato juice would be served in the living room. While this was being consumed Lorna could put the hot foods in serving dishes. She called Ricky, and by threethirty they were ready to go to Primary. Nellie's boys knocked on the kitchen door. Behind them stood a smiling Hilda. "Mrs. Brooks is resting. I'm to keep the baby until she wakes up." She must have noticed Lorna's look of concern, for she added, "Don't worry, Mrs. Lindee, I've had lots of experience with babies." "Tm sure you have," Lorna assured her, yet that let-down feeling persisted. "Resting from what?" she asked herself. She shooed her little flock out to the garage, and carefully backed her car out, head- 93 ed it in the direction of the Martin home. Her class listened attentively while she gave the lesson, with the exception of one or two children. Then, she asked Gregory Hall to give the closing prayer, and was astonished all over again at the sureness of these five-year-olds. But that was part of the strength of the Church, she told herself, building character from babyhood. Time for the day's activity! 'Twenty-two eager beavers, Lorna thought as she directed them. 'Their enthusiasm was boundless. Sister Lambert stopped Lorna on the way out. "We need new teachers. Do you have any names to submit to the bishopric?" Nell, Lorna thought. Nell should surely be glad to fill in some of her empty hours teaching a class. "Yes," Lorna answered, neighbor, Nell Brooks." Sister Lambert seemed surprised. "T don't know, Lorna, she's turned down requests to work on dinner or luncheon committees, without any explanation—I don't know." "She isn't at all busy," Lorna explained. "Tl feel her out on the subject," she volunteered. "Well, all right," Sister Lambert assented, doubtfully. Lorna delivered the Martin girls, drove home and into her own garage. Nell had young Bill in tow, and seemed to be enjoying his company immensely. She thoroughly loved children, all children, Lorna felt sure. It wouldn't take much courage to ask her to be a Primary teacher. She wasn't as unapproachable as people thought. Nell came through the hedge, a my relinquished Bill, and took her two in charge. "Nell," Lorna began, "'the Primary needs teachers. Would you....?" "T'm sorry — I couldn't possibly." Nell avoided looking at Lorna. "The doctor is taking us out to dinner. Pll have to rush. 'Thanks for taking the boys." She was gone! LORNA could have wept then and there. She had been wrong about Nell, after all. She was completely remote and untouchable, doing only the things she wanted to do — shirking, yes, shirking her duties. Lorna felt awfully tired. She hurried into the house and checked her roaster. Something had gone wrong — the meat wasn't more than half cooked, and only an hour until her guests would arrive. She lighted her gas oven, frantically grabbed a long fork, and lifted the roast to transfer it to another roaster. It plopped back into the grease and splattered her dress. "Steady, girl," she told herself, as she reached for the big apron that hung on a hook beside the refrigerator. "You won't make it this way." Bill had started to cry. "See if you can quiet your brother," she told Ricky. He tried, but the baby's screams only grew more piercing. Lorna looked at him. He looked feverish. She felt his face, Oh, dear, she thought, I forgot it was his turn to cut another tooth. She hoped that was all it was. She gave him a cracker to chew on, and he quieted down. She'd take his temperature as soon as she had a few minutes free. Ricky was being an angel. "Thank goodness for that," she breathed. At six o'clock she took time to undress Bill. His temperature was one degree above normal. She could see the red spot on his gum where the new tooth was trying to break through. She rubbed it with her finger, and the baby seemed soothed. He wouldn't take the liver and vegetables she tried to feed him. Perhaps a bottle and to bed. The Larsens would have to view her cherub while he slept, she was afraid. Lorna put Bill to bed and came back into the kitchen. Her angel child was at the sink on a chair, contentedly pouring the can of peas she'd opened for dinner down the disposal. She heard the front door open and voices in the entrance hall. Bill came into the kitchen. "Take your apron off and come in and meet the Larsens." Lorna took off the apron and met the Larsens. It was only when she got back to the kitchen that she remembered the grease spots on her dress. She took an apron out of the kitchen drawer, a company apron, with frills. 'There'd be no time to change or cover up the redness of her face with fresh makeup. From that time on she was in a daze, doing the things she knew she had to do, answering questions, joining in the conversation, supplying Ricky's wants. She could feel a band tightening around her forehead and wondered if she was going to have one of those frustrating headaches. She hoped the roast was done sufficiently. It seemed a little rare. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 NEVER WISH FOR THE MOON HE dinner was half over before Lorna began to feel less tense. "T understand you have some old neighbors of ours living in town now," Mr. Larsen was saying. "Yes," Mrs. Larsen said, "we did so want to see them, had time permitted." "Dr. And Mrs. Brooks," Mr. Larsen put in. "Maybe you know them." "Our next-door neighbors," Bill said. "Oh, really? 'Then you know what a lovely person Nell Brooks is," Mrs. Larsen said, turning to Lorna. "Tell me, has her health improved? She was so active in Church and civic affairs before she took sick, and I understood it would be some time before she completely recovered." Nell Brooks ill! 'The whole house seemed' to clatter down about Lorna's ears. Why, she couldn't possibly be—she was so cheerful and uncomplaining. Lorna's eyes met Bill's. "Is something wrong?" Mrs. Larsen asked. "Wrong?" Lorna wanted to shout it. She felt her cheeks burning. "We didn't know Nell was in poor health," she admitted. "She has never said anything...." "No, she wouldn't," Mrs. Larsen agreed, thoughtfully. "Probably doesn't want anyone making a fuss over her or feeling sorry. Nell is that kind of person. Perhaps I shouldn't have said anything...." She looked stricken. "Tt's all right," Bill assured her. "It will go no further, but I think Lorna should know." Dear, wise Bill, Lorna thought. Of course I should know — should 95 have known without being told that Nell wouldn't willingly be a drone. But I'll make it up to her for everything I've been thinking—somehow. "Best dinner I've ever eaten," Mr. Larsen declared heartily, as they bade Lorna and Bill goodbye. "That pie was delicious." "It was a lovely evening," Mts. Larsen said. "How do you manage things so smoothly, all alone?" "Oh, I just muddle along," Lorna laughed, "but, thank you. It was so nice to have you." Goodbyes were said. Bill would drive them to the airport. KK KK OK sePPHERE will be no dishwashing tonight," Lorna promised herself, as the door closed on Bill and the visitors. She turned the lamps low and let the moonlight flood the living room. Soon Bill came in. "Hi," he said, and sat down at his desk. He always had work to finish up. His papers rustled in the stillness of the night. Lorna thought of her heavy work schedule for tomorrow. "Never wish for the moon," she said softly. "No, my girl, never," Bill agreed, "one of these days you may get it." "True," Lorna answered, "and I'm afraid I wouldn't know what to do with it. In fact, ''m quite certain of it." She couldn't wait for tomorrow to begin, with its tasks and the blessings they brought. She'd start the day by doing something especially nice for Nell. 'There were so many things she could do for Nell, by way of a silent apology for the thoughts she'd had. She started counting them over. It made quite a list. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NatTIons" GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL ENTERTAINMENT: The George Washington Memorial entertainment on Saturday evening, February 19, was a great success. 'The entertainment was given at Major and Mrs. Downey's residence, 808 East, First South. 'The house is admirably adapted for entertaining, spacious halls and rooms large and connected with folding doors. The decorations were simply superb and one could not help feeling the enthusiasm that comes from flags, stars and stripes, banners, and martial music.... Some of the ladies of the committee were in the costumes of 1776 — with powdered hair, feathers, high combs, and rare old laces.... —News Note WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY Arise — 'tis the day of our Washington's glory, The garlands uplift for our liberties won; Forever let 'Time tell the patriot's story Whose sword swept for freedom the fields of the sun.... —Selected REPORT FROM LAIE, OAHU, HAWAIIAN ISLANDS: I am pleased to say that the work is progressing nicely, and I think our association will compare favorably with others. We find among the Hawaiian sisters many faithful and energetic workers. They take great interest in learning of things pertaining to the gospel and I have known some of them to walk from three to eight miles to attend meeting.... At present there are twenty-eight branches, and as a rule meetings are held weekly.... Once in six weeks I send some of the leading sisters to the other islands to visit them in their conferences, and I hope that we missionary sisters may be able to visit all the branches on the islands in the near future. —Alice R. Woolley MOTTO: The more we live for self the less we shall find the value of existence; the more we live for others and out of self, the greater will be the joy and satisfaction of living. —Selected A POET'S EVENING: On the evening of Friday, January 21, a number of old-time friends of Sister Eliza R. Snow, the sublime and eminent leader among the women of Zion, kept her birthday anniversary at the home of the writer. There were about forty of the sisters present, among whom were the venerable women Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella Horne and Bathsheba W. Smith and others not so far advanced in life. These three mothers in Israel were members of the first organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and had always been closely associated with "Sister Eliza.".... Many of the ladies present read choice selections from her favorite poem of the esteemed and revered poetess. The memory of the beloved ''elect lady" was fresh and tender in the minds of all present. Her writings, her teachings, her travels at home and abroad, her labors among the people and in the Temple were all remarked upon in the general conversation.... —Emmeline B. Wells Page 96 MBs. TAI YOUNG LEE-CHYUNG is the first and at present the only woman lawyer in Korea. Along with two male Korean lawyers, she was recently a grantee in the Specialist 'Traming Program sponsored by the United States Department of State. She attended lectures on American law at Southern Methodist University, in Dallas, 'Texas, and_ traveled throughout the country learning about our laws. Mrs. Lee-Chyung is especially interested in the legal status of women and children and in learning about our juvenile courts. She established and personally finances the Korean Legal Center for Women in Seoul, which is training other women lawyers. DONNA HILL, literature leader in the Manhattan Ward Relief Society, New York City, has written and illustrated a picture book about Spain for children from ages three to eight. It is titled Not One More Day (Viking Press), and is listed by the New York Times Book Review Section (November 17, 1957) in "One Hundred Outstanding New Books for the Younger Reader." Donna Hill read her story and showed slides of her book at the "Explore the World in Books" festival held during Book Week at the World Affairs Center in New York City. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ESTA P. CRAWFORD, Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, won the Deseret News Christmas Story Contest for 1957 with her entry "Aria in the Wilderness," and Mabel Jones Gabbott, a contributor to the Magazine, was awarded the poetry contest prize for her poem "The 'Three Witnesses." ME. AND MRS. PETER PETERSON (Celestia M. Terry), ninety-seven and ninety-six years old, a Latter-day Saint couple from Fairview, Utah, celebrated their seventy-ninth wedding anniversary December 11, 1957. They are believed to be the longest-married couple in the United States. 'They have forty-eight grandchildren, 149 great-grandchildren, and_ thirty-two great-great-grandchildren. 'Three of their children have celebrated their golden weddings. NNABEL DOUGLAS McARTHUR and MERLE SINCLAIR have written a dramatic story of the signers of the Declaration of Independence. 'This gives all sorts of interesting information about the men who signed the Declaration, which all of us ought to know, but most of us do not. They Signed for Us has a good ready reference (New York: Duell, Sloan and Pearce, Inc. 1957). Page 97 CO-—D EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 45 FEBRUARY 1958 "Be My Valentine. éé BY Mine," "My Heart Beats for You," "Ever Thine." 'These expressions, whether written on a small candy heart or elaborately inscribed on a valentine which was delivered from the red and white ruffled post office box in the schoolroom, still have the power, years later, to evoke that happy, singing feeling which swept over the youthful recipient of loving messages. As one passes through life's experiences, however, youthful assurance, in turn, is slowly replaced by youth's uncertainties, adult reasoning, mature reflection, and elderly realities, and the custom of exchanging visual or verbal symbols of love and affection is often discarded. As this Valentine Day approaches, it might be well to recapture that childish delight and bring its joys to others. Although physical appearances change, hearts may ever remain young and eager. One of the most effective ways to relieve care, discouragement, and sorrow, is an expression of solicitude and friendly affection for others— the giving of service. Probably there are on every block of homes, persons who need to be given a valentine. It may be a visit to express the spirit of friendliness and concern for another's daily welfare. It may be tending the children of a burdened mother — to allow her time to go out of the home or even to seclude herself in her bedroom Page 98 for rest. Who does not recall the blessed feeling of being able to go to bed when ill or tired, knowing that mother would take care of everything, of wrapping oneself in a cocoon of oblivion, half-hearing the dear, familiar sounds of household tasks accomplished without any effort by oneself? Bestowing this feeling of release, for just a short period, revives the spirits of the overburdened and is a welcome valentine. Another valentine to be treasured is the giving or lending of a book— not necessarily one of instruction, but one to be enjoyed—for relaxation. One woman always leaves "a valentine" in the form of a book where she has been a house guest. Her visit is recalled whenever the book is seen or remembered. A "valentine" party will bring old or new friends together. During one's school days, how often two chums went to lunch together and then to a movie. 'That custom could persist as a valentine to a cherished friend. Every person needs to know that he is "special" to one or many other persons. On this Valentine Day it would be heartwarming to give "valentines" to the lonely, those far from their own loved ones or from their own native lands, to a young mother who feels in need of encouragement and praise, to a newcomer in the ward. EDITORIAL The true spirit of Valentine's Day is one of warmth and loving kindness which may Icave behind a tangible expression, be it ever so 99 fined to February the Fourteenth, but should be lavishly given throughout the year, so that "I Love You Truly" and "Be My Valentine" will small, so that the rememberance of the occasion will linger on. This valentine spirit of solicitude and affirmation should not be conbe constantly echoing and re-echoing in hearts made warm and joyful. —M. C. S. <-> Birthday Congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman Former General President of Relief Society February 7, 1958 T is with appreciation and much affection that we extend birthday congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman, former general president of Relief Society. She is cherished in the stakes and missions of the Church as one who has given her strength and her time to the building of the world-wide sisterhood. Her many years of service and leadership have been devoted to giving inspiration and direction to the many phases of Relief Society work. Sister Lyman has ever emphasized the effectiveness of service in the lives of women, and the blessed continuity of Relief Society as an organization designed to direct the energies of women into channels of personal development and charity and helpfulness to those in need. We would say of Sister Lyman, she is among us as "one that serveth." Relief Society women throughout the Church extend congratulations and best wishes to Sister Lyman, and we wish her much happiness for her birthday. Shis One Day Constance Timberlake Let us arise to greet the Sabbath day With grateful hearts. This one day of the week Is ours to have, to worship, and to pray; Remembering Christ, as we his presence seck. What love! He had to suffer and to die! The highest price was paid for you and me That we might live, our bodies not to lie Forever dead, but raised eternally. As we this day the sacred emblems take, With meekness thus renew again our vows To strive to live, and day by day to make Our light to shine; no clouds darken our brows; Until the dawn of perfect joy and peace, To do his will our labors shall not cease. A Relief Society Sribute Maurine R. Goold 'IIE Relief Society organization was given as a sacred gift to the daughters of God. The women who are called to preside over this wonderful organization are elect ladies. 'They have been chosen for this work because they are honorable in purpose, honest and humble of heart, because they are obedient to God's command, because they are blessed with the spirit of charity and love, wisdom and faith. Through their ability as leaders they can inspire those working under their direction to walk in righteousness before the Lord. The Lord has appointed them as bearers of peace: Where there was strife and hatred, they have sown seeds of love. Where there was sorrow and despair, they have brought hope. Where there was darkness, they have spread the light of the gospel. Where there was sadness and suffering, they have brought joy and comfort. Where there was weakness, they have brought courage and strength. Blessed are these beloved ladies for their devoted and cheerful service to the Relief Society, for their work has been a labor of love. Blessed are they who remain faithful to their task, for they shall know the beauty of God's eternal love. —-_ Joy in Service Jennie Brown Rawlins T is a well-known fact that to be of service is one of the most fundamental of a woman's inherent needs. I have known women to be happy in ill health, or in the direst of physical circumstances, but I have never known one to be happy who felt herself unloved, or unneeded. Give her someone to care for, though, someone to whom the touch of her hand brings comfort, and she will be like a choice book filled with lovely thoughts. Why is this so? What is the source of this joy that seeps into the heart as the sunlight seeps into the chill and rain-soaked earth? Perhaps one reason is the transfer of attitudes. For instance, a woman who considers only the happiness and comfort of those about her, naturally pleases those whom she serves, and their love and appreciation create a warm cocoon of good feeling and security in which she dwells. But let us consider the missionaries, who, it seems, are the purest examples of service to be found. Sometime their messages are ill-accepted, sometimes they are treated with cold indifference or even contempt. Yet thousands who have spent from one to three years in the mission field testify that it was the happiest time of their lives. Joy derived from service must spring from another source than merely the transfer of attitudes. What is it? We know there is a law by which those who find fulfillment live—whether they are aware of it or not. It is this: True joy is given only to those who put themselves in tune with God's holy plan. It is part of his plan that mankind shall serve his fellows, service given freely, without thought of recompense. Woman, whose heart is a fine-tuned instrument sensitive to the suffering of her fellow beings, finds, when she is able to render service, the music produced as by the hand of a master, becomes a beatitude of beauty that is solace to her ever-thirsting soul. Page 100 Recipes From the Swiss-Austrian Mission Submitted by LaVelle D. Curtis BrrCHERMUESLI Maria Weissenburger 1 No. 2 can fruit cocktail 6 oranges, or equivalent quantity of any 1 No. 2 can pineapple juice one or more of grapes, strawberries, 1 No. 2 can chunk pineapple raspberries, apples, or any other 6 bananas seasonal fruit which is available 2 c. Uncooked oatmeal (or more if sugar to taste needed ) 2 pts. Whipping cream (whipped and 1% c. Ground nuts sweetened ) juice of two lemons Mix all ingredients together, except the whipped cream, and let stand in refrigerator for one hour. Add cream and let stand for one-half hour in refrigerator. Serve in bowl. It is very filling and can be used for the main course. This recipe makes a very large amount. WIENERSCHNITZEL (Veal Cutlets ) Hanni Wysard 2 Ibs. Veal cutlets %4 inch thick fine bread crumbs salt and pepper to taste shortening 1 egg lemon slices parsley Rub in the cutlets a little salt and pepper, dip them in egg batter, and cover with fine bread crumbs. Fry in large amount of shortening four to six minutes until brown and tender. Arrange on platter and garnish with lemon slices and parsley. Serves four to six persons. BERNER PLATE Hanni Wysard 2 Ibs. Fresh green beans 2 c. Bouillon 1 tbsp. Butter salt 2 tbsp. Flour spice according to tast onions and parsley 1 Ib. Bacon for the entire recipe or one sparerib for each person Pour hot salt water over the beans and drain. Melt the butter, add onions and parsley cut in small pieces and brown the mixture. Add the flour and the beans and stir; add the bouillon and spice. Add bacon or spareribs and boil for forty to sixty minutes. When the beans and bacon are well done, take the whole piece of bacon out and cut it into pieces according to the number to be served. Place the beans on platter and decorate with bacon pieces. Carrots Hanni Wysard 2 Ibs. Carrots salt to taste pinch of sugar onions, parsley as desired 1 tbsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Flour mixed in 1 c. Water additional water to cover carrots Page 101 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Peel and slice the carrots. Melt the butter, add parsley and onions cut small. Brown onions and parsley in butter; add flour mixed in water, and stir; add the carrots, a pinch of sugar, and salt to taste, and enough additional water to cover carrots. Cook slowly twenty to thirty minutes until tender. BERNER POTATOES Hanni Wysard 3 Ibs. Boiled potatoes salt to taste 2 tbsp. Butter or fat Peel potatoes and cut in slices, brown in frying pan with butter or fat, salt to taste. Form in a mold and cover with plate or lid. Cook for about fifteen minutes slowly until it forms a light brown crust. Turn upside down on plate and serve. This can be served with green salad and cold meats. ORANGE SiruUP FOR DRINKS Anna Gallati 2 qts. Cold water sugar to taste peelings of five oranges lemon flavoring to taste Pour cold water over peelings of oranges, let stand for five days in cool place or refrigerator. Strain the juice off, add half as much sugar as juice, cook to the consistency of light sirup, add a little lemon flavoring. Let it cool, put in bottles, and cover until ready for use. Keep in cool place. Serve with ginger ale, or other carbonated beverages. STRAWBERRY PIE 3 Ibs. Strawberries 1% c. Sugar 2 eggs 3 c. Flour 3 tbsp. Butter or margarine 1 tsp. Baking powder peeling of 1 lemon Put some sugar over the strawberries and let them stand until there is some juice. For the batter, mix the eggs with the butter or margarine and the sugar, and stir well. Add the flour, the baking powder, and the grated lemon peeling and stir. Fill the mixture in a pie pan and bake. When the crust is cold, put the strawberries, without the juice, on it. To the strawberry juice add 1 c. Water and 1 tbsp. Sugar, then cook. Dissolve 2 tbsp. Corn starch in 1 c. Cold water and add to the cooking juice. Cook it slowly for about four minutes and pour hot over the sugared strawberries on the pie. Serve cold. It is very good with whipped cream over it. IP On Entering a Small Boy in the Hospital Elsie McKinnon Strachan How shall I tell you of his small-boy need, Whose days have been bright meadows in the sun, Whose willingness outrides a pinto's speed When love endorses any task begun? How shall I tell the charm of praise: that one Soft word will quiet his initial dread? The tribute of your smile, warm-lit with fun, May ease his Hoppy-hat from tousled head— But, nurse, say cowboys all wear spurs to bed. . > # Fs zs, is83 si F, we »? 4 x. Yee ve ph FESR, TEES ate RS x eee oe at, lark Makes Quilts of Exquisite Workmanship Mary Bauer c ARY Bauer Clark, Cedar City, Utah, is an artist at quiltmaking. Her dainty, even stitches are outstanding in neatness and perfection. She has made more than 150 quilts, including more than twenty-five for her children and grandchildren. For thirty years she has been head of the quilt committee in the Cedar City Second Ward Relief Society. She also does lovely crocheting and knitting. Well known as an outstanding mother and homemaker, Mrs. Clark has seven children, twenty-two grandchildren, and twelve great-grandchildren. Fleart $ Oasis Eva Willes Wangsgaard Lovely flower in my hand, I would keep you fresh and bright. Spices old as Samarkand Rise and scent my lonely night. Surely, love is that, a flower, Rare to find and hard to keep. Heart's oasis, in this hour Love blooms where wells are deep. «et ' The Gift and the Giver Frances C. Yost ISS) Mattie Wilkins had come downtown to buy material for a new spring dress for herself. A new dress, she thought, would raise her spirits. Why, a new dress sometimes changed a person's whole life. She walked through the stores, looking at the display of yardage on the shelves and counters. And then, suddenly, there it was, a blue and pink plaid, delicately shaded. Miss Mattie paused, feeling the fine-textured cloth. It was fiftyfour inches wide. 'Then, taking the material to a nearby mirror, she let it fall in folds before her. Draped about her face, the material made her eyes bluer, and made her heart soar. Why, Miss Mattie thought, one might even meet love, in a dress made of this. "May I help you, Ma'am?" the clerk asked politely. "Why, yes, Pll take four yards of this material."" Then Miss Mattie added, "I want some thread, pink buttons, and a zipper to match." Miss Mattie watched the clerk run the material through the automatic measurer. 'The end of the bolt was nearing, was there enough for a dress? The clerk was wearing a little worried frown, too, then her face turned to smiles and she looked up and said: "Four and one-eighth yards. The small extra piece is a gift from the store." "Thanks," Miss Mattie mutmured. 'Then she added, "I'm so glad there was enough." Page 104 With the bundle under her arm, Miss Mattie hurried from the store. Just buying this beautiful piece of material had given a decided lilt to her step. But it wasn't until she was home and glanced at the calendar that she remembered her sister Millie's birthday, which was less than a week away. "What can I give Millie?" Miss Mattie thought. There were so many things Millie always needed with her large, growing family. She always needed sheets and _ pillowcases, and towels and dish towels, and tablecloths and napkins. But this birthday, Mattie thought, I want to give her something personal, something lovely. "T could give her the yardage I bought downtown!" Miss Mattie toyed with the idea. But she so wanted the dress for herself. However, she could get along with what she had. She certainly didn't need a new dress nearly as much as did Millie. Miss Mattie visualized her sister in the new pink and blue plaid. Millie's eyes would seem even more blue. Millie might even want to make curtains for one of the upstairs bedrooms. The windows were so tiny, there would be cloth enough for a room, it was so wide, and lovely. Miss Mattie wrote a note: "Happy Birthday, dear sister. I'm sending some yardage to use as you wish. All my love, Mattie." Quickly, lest she change her mind, and keep the material for herself, THE GIFT AND THE GIVER Mattie wrapped the cloth, the thread, the zipper, and the buttons. "Tl mail it this very afternoon, so the package will get there well in time for her birthday," Miss Mattie said. AS Millie Mathews took the package the mailman handed her, her heart seemed to flutter with excitement. "Thank you," she said politely, but could hardly wait for the friendly postman to pass the time of day and be on his way. Hurriedly, she went to her room and opened the package. "Why it's from Sister Mattie. It's... It's material for a new dress!" Millie feasted her eyes on the fine-textured material. "Bless dear Mattie's heart," she said softly. Millie Mathews held up the material against her face as she looked into the mirror. The cloth made her eyes look more blue. "I know just how I'll make the dress," she said aloud. "I won't show it to any of the family, until I have it all made. Then I'll just put it on and surprise them." Millie had a nice, warm feeling in her heart, just thinking about the lovely dress which would soon be hers to wear. It was two days later that Millie Mathews went upstairs to see why her daughter Jody was so very quiet. She found Jody lying on her bed, and her eyes were red from crying. Jody was a sophomore in high school. As Millie looked at her through a mother's eyes, she had to admit how really charming Jody was, even with the bridge of freckles across her nose. Millie just couldn't stand to see Jody unhappy. She put her arm around her and spoke ever so gently. 105 "What's wrong, Jody dear?" "It's really nothing, Mother." Jody tried to squirm away. "Please tell Momie, Jody," Millie pleaded. "Well, Mother, I didn't intend to worry you about it, because you probably can't do anything about it either, but...." Jody hesitated and wiped away an unbidden tear. "But maybe I can help, if you tell me," Millie urged softly. "Well, the senior class is sponsoring a dance a week from Friday, and Monte, you know that new boy who's so nice... Well, he asked me for a date, and well...." Jody's voice hesitated, then, taking courage, continued, "Everyone will have new dresses for the dance, nice dresses with full skirts, fresh and pretty. I wish... I wish that I could shut my eyes and a fairy godmother would bring me cloth for a dress. I know just how I want it made." Jody's voice faded away with hopelessness. Millie Mathews put her arms around her teenage daughter very tenderly. Millie thought of her sister Mattie. Would she care too much if she gave the material to Jody? What had the note said: "Tm sending you some yardage to use as you wish." Well, she wished to use it for Jody. She would tell Mattie in the next letter about the dance, and how happy Jody was with the cloth she had sent. Mattie would understand a mother's sacrifice. 'The material would look so very lovely on Jody. It was such a youthful color combination. Yes, this was what the material was meant for. "Jody, shut your eyes, and give your fairy godmother two minutes." Millie slipped softly out of Jody's room and quietly into her own room. Withdrawing the material, the thread, the buttons, and the zipper, and leaving the gift wrapping and the card sentiment tucked safely away in her drawer, Milhie slipped back into Jody's room and laid the material on her lap. "Now, open your eyes, Jody dear," Millie said excitedly. "Oh, Mother, oh, Mother! It's beautiful! It'll make a gorgeous dress." Jody ran with the material to the mirror and, dancing on her toes, exclaimed: "Oh, Mother, you're better than any fairy godmother!" ONDUS, Jody's older sister, came home from college Friday evening. It had been a long time since Nondus had been home, and all the family were most happy to see her. "It's sure good to have you home again, Nondus," Jody said. "Tt's just wonderful to be home," Nondus replied. 'Then she added rather apologetically, "I know you never cared for hand-me-downs Jody, but maybe you won't mind clothes that have been_to college. The truth is, I just can't squeeze into them anymore." Nondus laid a number of nice dresses on Jody's bed. "Why you're not fat, Nondus, you're cute," Jody said. "Thanks for the compliment, Jody honey, it isn't that I'm so fat, it's just that I'm not a teen anymore. I. Guess I've reached womanhood, and these teen dresses just won't stretch." Nondus tried to appear cheerful about it, but she didn't fool Jody. "But Nondus, there's just everything here!" Jody looked at the pile of clothing on the bed. "All the nice school clothes you took last fall, the party dress, your formal, just everything!" Jody was amazed. "Yes, everything all right," Nondus agreed, "and I'm not exactly happy about not being able to wear them. Confidentially, my wardrobe amounts to two straight wool skirts and two sweaters. Just between us, I haven't the heart to tell Mother. She, well she couldn't do anything about new clothes right now. So..." Nondus managed a smile, "Tl just make my sweaters and skirts do until school's out, and then Pll get a summer job and buy material to make me some summery dresses that fit." Jody looked at the avalanche of nice dresses she had suddenly fallen heir to. "Well, thanks anyway," she laughed quietly, "I guess your loss is my gain." "I guess,' Nondus agreed, then added warmly, "but I don't know anyone I would rather give them to than you, Jody." Jody thought of the pretty blue and pink plaid material. It would look lovely on Nondus. Jody visualized for the last time the boys standing in line, waiting to dance with her. Just waiting for their turn to swing the girl in the pink and blue plaid dress. Then she visualized Nondus sitting in hot classrooms, wearing itchy sweaters and wool skirts, clear until June. "Nondus, Mother gave me some cloth to make a dress for the dance next Friday, but now that you've given me all these nice clothes, well I just won't need it now. I want you to have it. It's here in my drawer." Jody went over and withdrew the 106 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 THE GIFT AND THE GIVER ink and blue plaid yardage, the thread, the buttons, and the zipper, and brought them over to Nondus. "There's a cute pattern for it, too. You were always good at altering patterns, if it's a little small." Jody was talking extra fast, as though if she didn't get all the words out at once, she might change her mind and keep the dress for herself. "And, Nondus, if we pitch in tomorrow morning, it's Saturday, | could help you sew and we could have it all finished for you to take back to school. Why, you could even wear it Monday, if you wanted "? Jody thought of her mother. Mother wouldn't care that she had given it to Nondus. Mother was always so understanding and would consider it as a very generous act. Mother knew how much the cloth really meant to her. Jody looked at the array of clothes Nondus had laid on the bed. 'There was a red and white checked gingham, with a full skirt. It would look nice for the dance, if she washed and starched it. What was Nondus saying? "Oh, Jody, oh, Jody! You don't know what this means to me." Nondus was exuberant. "When I, if I ever get out of college, and get a good paying job, I'm going to buy ou some really lovely clothes. You'll know what it's like not to have to wear hand-me-downs, Jody. I, I guess it sounds over-sentimental put, Jody... - Nondus_ blinked away a tear, and continued, "I do love you, Jody!" NONDUS wore the blue and pink gingham dress to a dance in 107 the college recreation hall. Nondus was on the serving committee, and she was pouring punch when a young man came Up and spoke: "Pardon me, I'm Bob Southerly..- - I live at Ivy Hall... - Home town Bakersfield.... Pm a senior. - - majoring lm accounting.... May I have this dance?" It had all come out in one breath, and realizing the way it sounded, he laughed sheepishly. Nondus caught the humor of it, too, and laughed softly with him. Nondus scrutinized the young man standing before her. He was tall and neatly dressed, with a clean appearance, a nice smile, and dark wavy hair. "Ld be happy to dance this one." Nondus knew she was blushing. Then she added shyly, "Pm Nondus Mathews." "You've been around all year, and I wait until spring to find you. Pm slipping!" Bob Southerly smiled. Then he added, "You see, I've kept my nose to the grindstone. Majoring 'a accounting is stiff, but I believe lve made the grade, and well.. - - I felt like I should relax and loosen up my joints at a dance tonight." He laughed softly. Later that evening, Bob Southerly said: "I don't want to sound sentimental, but when I saw you there, pouring punch in that pretty dress, I knew you were the gitl I've been dreaming about." Nondus thought, funny what a new dress would do for you, she knew there would be other dances, other dates. Nondus thought of dear Aunt Mattie, who had never married, and 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 who was the original giver, as Mothblue and pink plaid dress that had er had explained while they were sort of introduced them. Perhaps making the dress. Aunt Mattie if Aunt Mattie had had a dress like would be happy to know about Bob this, when she was young, things Southerly. She would wnte and just might have been different for tell her about him, and about the her, too. Scissor Happy Helen H. Jones ODAY, yesterday, and the day before that my husband and a young German refugee called Gogee (really Gotfried) have been scissor-happy in our garden. Though they can't understand each other's language, they agree in this: everything must go, everything must be pruned, and the closer the better. "Cut," says my husband, moving two fingers to imitate scissors. Then, with a sweeping gesture of his slender school-teacher hands, "No good. Must go." Gogee nods. "I know, I know." Several times I've wanted to rush out and put up a battle for my blooming geraniums, the verbena still in flower. I don't because I know, much as I hate to admit it, that what they are doing to the garden will be for the best in the long run. In the long run. One of the abilities that God gave us when he created us in his image was the ability to see ahead, the vision to do today what will be best for us tomorrow. Those two men outside—my husband looking through bifocals, slightly bald, slightly round-shouldered from bending over interminable compositions that are always piled before the teacher of English, and Gogee, seventeen, with his shock of flax-like hair, clear blue eyes, work-hardened hands, and youthful strength—share the same wisdom. It is good to be scissor-happy when we are cutting away the old and useless to make room for the growth of the new and beautiful, though, at the moment, things ay they are may seem desirable. —— Jo a Child Pushing a DollCarriage Ida Elaine James With what proprietary airs You push your precious burden, child! A certain understanding tears At memory's heartstrings... So I smiled Into your lifted eyes a second As my thoughts raced backward... Far, Where sweet possessive hours unreckoned Flew like a tune's unmeasured bar. Fleetingly, my heart rejoiced In young and tender motherhood For you; in whispers my heart voiced: "You can keep her as you would, To love — smile on, for this is good." We Are All Alike—But Different Elsie C. Carroll "I can't believe it! It can't be true!" Those words were sobbed by a mother whose son had confessed his guilt to a serious crime. She thought she knew her son. But in a way he was a stranger to her. Recently another mother, proud and happy, when she learned that her daughter had won a great honor, exclaimed, 'It was a complete surprise to us all. We didn't even know she was trying for the award." Hearing of these opposite statements recalled to my mind lines of a little Japanese poem: The white iris and the purple iris Grow side by side in the pond, Yet never open their hearts To each other. Even though it is true that "No man is an island," and all our lives are intertwined with many other lives—in fact, as John Donne says in "For Whom the Bell Tolls," with all other lives—there are closed chambers in our hearts into which no one, however dear, enters. Often we are amazed to discover how little we really know about the people we think we know the best. A mother who watches her baby develop day by day from the time it is placed in her arms a helpless little mite, naturally feels for a time that she knows her child, that she understands its every thought and emotion. But this is not for long. Sooner or later every mother has the experience of the one who heard her child tell his sister, "Patty has gone inside herself and closed the door and pulled down the shades." Perhaps it isn't that Patty wants to shut her mother out. We all must live much of our intellectual, emotional, and spiritual experiences relatively alone, no matter how much we would like to share them completely with loved ones. But we are doomed to varying degrees of isolation no matter how many relatives and friends surround us. I know a child who runs to her mother once in a while saying, "Mama, let me sit on your lap. I feel alone." She can't explain just what this feeling is, but she doesn't like it, and it takes some time for the mother's reassurance to relieve her of the discomforting sensation. Parents sometimes forget that children inherit a complex heritage. If they could remember this, they could better understand tendencies in their offspring entirely different to any of their own, and, perhaps, have more sympathy when things that seem insignificant to themselves have tremendous importance to their children. We may be surprised when neighbor Jones begins to spend money she has saved from selling butter and eggs, not for better clothes, nor new rugs and drapes for her shabby home, but for violin lessons. Or when nephew Tom, upon graduation, refuses the partnership in his father's business and works his way to Europe on a freighter to see the great art galleries of the world. But we shouldn't be surprised. It is this aloneness part of us that makes us individuals. I once heard an eminent speaker pay a beautiful tribute to his wife. He said: "When I looked at our firstborn little daughter the wish that filled my heart was that she could be just exactly like her mother. But, on further thought, I realized the impossibility of such a thing, and that, if my wish could be granted, this little newcomer to our world would be deprived of the most precious gift to which life entitles each of us, individuality." Perhaps if we would think a little more about this fact—that each of us is an individual, each different from all others, we could sometimes be more understanding, more tolerant. Page 109 An &asy Way to Mlake Rugs Eugenie Daniels O you like homemade rugs? If you do, a toothbrush handle makes a useful needle to create an attractive rag rug, one that looks like the old-fashioned braided rug so popular in our grandmother's or great-grandmother's time. 'These rugs may be made of discarded clothing, blankets, draperies, bedspreads, or other available materials. You have a toothbrush with a hole in the handle? Fine! The hole sometimes has to be made larger, and that can be done by using a small drill or a penknife. Make the hole oval in shape (Figure 1). Now cut off the brush part (Figure 2), and use sandpaper to smooth the end and shape it to a point. The tug needle is now finished and ready to use. Page 110 Cut or tear the rags. If they are of cotton material, cut them to about two inches wide. Wool material should be cut narrower, about one and one half inches wide. Materials vary in weave, so cut them so that when twisted, they will be the thickness of a pencil. Keep the rug to one kind of material. Do not mix cotton and wool. The first step, in making this rug, is to use three strips, each a different color. This will make it easier to see how to start your rug, but is not a must! Have one strand longer than the other two, about eighteen inches long. Make a braid about six inches long, if making an oval rug. Braid a shorter length for a round rug (Figure 3). 'Turn under the rag-ends that you started AN EASY WAY TO MAKE RUGS with, and sew them neatly so no taw edges show. This is all the sewing necessary with this kind of rug, if the rags are spliced as the work progresses. Now thread the long strand in the end of the toothbrush needle (Figure 4). Run the needle through the outside loop of the braid, and pull it through, putting your thumb under the strand, form. Ing a loop. Throw over your left hand the rag strand and put the needle through the next section of braid. At the same time, put it through the loop over the thumb, from the top (Figures 5 and 6). Now pull the rag strand through both loops, releasing the loop over the thumb. The strand near the hand now becomes the loop on the thumb. This is repeated until the Tug is completed. At the end of an oval rug, widen by going into the braid twice in the same place. Widen like the spokes of a half wagon wheel. A round tug would require widening in the complete circle, closer near the center, but farther apart as the rug becomes larger (Figure 7). To add more rags to the working strand, just fold the end of each Tag and make a small cut (Figure 8), and put one end of the rag through the end of the strand fastened to the rug and back into the opposite end of the rag that you are joining. Pull all the way through, easing it a bit with your fingers to make a small knot. If these do not readily go through the rug loops, it is because the loops are being pulled too tight. If so, help by pushing the strips through with the fingers. Rags can be machine sewed together, if preferred. If rags are a 11 w————___ se) Figure 1 = Figure 2 Figure 3 Figure 4 Figure 5 Figure 6-A Figure 6-B short length, then it is a good idea to sew a few of them together on the sewing machine. A yard length tag is enough to handle with each threading of the needle. Sew the tags flat, placing the ends together for a seam. A rug with the center all of one color, then a row or two of a contrasting color, and the center color about every fourth row around, is very attractive. Black rags from socks are good to form patterns. Black works up well with gray and pastel colors. Brown is also a good border color, with beige as the main color. Socks are used by beginning at the top and cutting in a spiral down to the foot. - be used for borders. I i Figure 7 a Figure 8 Keep in mind that the larger the rug, the more material it will require of the same color to make a strip around. If you have only odds and ends, use them to make a wide portion of the rug with the "hit and miss" pattern, by using a darker shade, then a light, then a darker shade. In this way, plain colors can A discarded pink cotton bedspread made the center of one rug. A tan cotton back 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 AN EASY WAY TO MAKE RUGS of a drape was used around a twentyinch oval rug. A man's blue work shirt followed this. Two old blue crepe housecoats came next. 'hey made two rounds. Use only materials of fast colors, because you will want to wash the 113 rug. Sometimes neighbors will be glad to give you cast-off clothing. Sort out the materials, cut the rags, and keep them handy in boxes. If you are creative and want color harmony, then use a package or two of dye. Proposal Helen H. Winn Would I have understood if you had brought A brace of quail and laid it wordlessly Before me, or have read your unvoiced thought To pledge your hunter's skill with food for me? Would I have waited for a lover's words, For vows on which the heart alone could feed, Or would I have accepted these wild birds As offering your labor for my need? She of an older world would understand, Would answer you with bread of her own baking, Jellies from berries gathered by her hand, Served on a linen cloth of her own making. Words were not needed. It was better said By those who spoke their love with quail and bread. -_> On Starting the Day Right Wilma Boyle Bunker I am wondering if I, as a mother, realize how much my own morning outlook affects the entire family. If I am critical, high-strung, and discouraged, the atmosphere of the entire household becomes tense and forbidding. On the other hand, if I set about my morning tasks with a confident, unhurried, and optimistic frame of mind, I can send everyone to work and school happy and ready to tackle the problems of the day. I know there are mornings when things just don't run smoothly, when it is hard to remain calm and unruffled. That is the time I should remind myself that a bad day at the office for my husband, or a poor grade in a test at school for my son often can be traced to a gloom-ladened breakfast table. I believe I have it within my power to help shape the kind of day my family will have. Whether it will be one of depressed frustration, or one of confident achievement depends a great deal on how the day begins. It is my job as a homemaker to keep the house clean, to wash and iron and mend the clothes, and to serve nutritious meals. But it is also my duty as a wife and mother to try to create a serene and optimistic beginning to each day's activities. Elizabeth's Children Cuapter II Olive W. Burt Synopsis: Carol Wilson, the only unmarried one in her family, attends the funeral of her sister Elizabeth and tries to comfort the motherless children. Kathy, the eldest niece, begs Carol to stay and take care of them, but Carol, who is an artist, returns to her work in the city. Their grandmother will care for them. RENT Gibson, managing editor of Your Home Magazine, and Carol's boss, met her at the airport as she returned to the city from Wyoming and the funeral of her sister, Elizabeth. "How did it go?" Brent asked solicitously, as he greeted her. Then, before Carol could answer, he went on, "It was rugged, I can see from the way you look. 'Take it easy today, Carol. 'Try to rest and not to think. But I'll tell you one thing— I'm mighty glad to have you back. I was afraid you'd decide to desert me." His voice, Carol noticed, held a note of deep sincerity, not called for by the casual words. Carol raised her eyes to the familiar face, and then shifted them quickly. Once in awhile she caught a look like that in the man's eyes, and it always troubled her. 'They were business associates, that was all. And there was no reason for that intent, tender expression. "You weren't hoping instead of fearing, now, were you?" she tried to sound teasing, but she was too bone weary to make it believable. Brent, too, was trying to sound casual. "Not just afraid, terrified!" he said, and grinned down at her. Page 114 "A Wyoming ranch house filled with noisy kids is no place for my chief artist." 'Then he went on trelentlessly, "Your Mother's Day cover is about due, you know!" That was more like Brent. Carol smiled suddenly. "Slave driver! But it'll be ready." Back in her little studio, under the pressure of work to be done by a certain time, work that she loved to do, Carol felt release from the tensions of living. She could push Elizabeth's children back in her mind and lose herself in the creative effort required by her painting. And as an overtone to this effort, completely filling her consciousness, was the desire to create something that would meet the critical approval of Brent Gibson. As she stood before her easel she was subtly aware of what this picture must be. She hadn't consciously planned it, but it was there, in her mind's eye, complete to every small detail. She began to sketch in the rough outline of her idea. Her hand, trained and obedient, moved almost involuntarily in response to her imagination. HEN Brent Gibson dropped in a few days later to see how she was progressing with the assignment, he looked at the nearly completed painting and gave a low whistle of surprised admiration. "That's great, Carol! Truly great he said earnestly. Carol looked up, gratified at his 1' ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN genuine approval. His eyes moved from the painting to the artist, and he regarded her thoughtfully for a long moment. It was as if he were reappraising her, re-evaluating her. She flushed a little in embarrassment, and, to cover this emotion, she asked, "Do you get the significance?" "Of course. Who could miss it?" He turned his gaze again to the painting. It was Carol's memory of that evening in the bedroom with Elizabeth's children — the children who had lost their mother and were clinging to her in place of their mother. It showed a small girl at her mother's knee, praying. But the figure of the child alone was visible. Of the mother, only the skirt of a soft robe showed, with the bare feet of another child on the mother's knee, lifelike against the heavenly blue of the robe. It was the expression on the praying child's face that told the story. Somehow Carol had managed to convey in those rapt, peaceful features the whole essence of security and love —the security and love found at a mother's knee, with the spirit of God hovering, almost tangible, over them all. "It's a beautiful thought, Carol," Brent said softly. "And different. You've contrived to depict the essence of a mother's love, and without showing her face at all. It's great! For you've put here what any observing person must have realized—that the love between a mother and child has nothing at all to do with the mother's appearance. Always artists are showing the mother's face —and making her beautiful. But," his voice caught, "4t's the love that is important." 115 Carol's face was troubled. "After I got started, I began to have doubts. You know, Brent, I think I was just a bit confused about what a mother really looks life...." He took her shoulders between his strong hands and looked down into her questioning blue eyes. "You're worrying about your sister's children, aren't you? But they're all right?" "Yes," she said slowly. "I suppose they are. I tell myself that they don't need me — that I'm just being a sentimental old aunt." He shook her gently. "And this is the lady that came to me begging for a chance to show what she could do in the magazine world! The lady that promised breathlessly, without even being asked, that she would be a permanent fixture, growing with the magazine, staying with it as long as she was wanted. No fly-by-night! No silly young girl longing for a home and_ husband...." He broke off suddenly and turned away. "When can I send for the painting?" "Day after tomorrow," Carol answered, and there was no trace of emotion in her voice. But as soon as Brent was gone, she turned away from her easel, drew out her sewing machine and opened a big box she kept hidden in her closet. It was filled with material and patterns, and a_halffinished full-circle skirt she was making for Kathy. But before she sat down at the machine, she took a peek at the clothes already finished. There was a sort of balm for her heart in these lovely little garments —in the dainty dresses for Trudy and Becky and the elaborate cowboy shirt for Steve. While sewing for the children, she could summon up their images, could almost believe they were here with her. And when the children received these products of her time and skill, they would know that they had not been forgotten by their aunt. They knew that, anyway, she thought. She had written to them every day or two, and she had one letter from Kathy with a scrawled P. S. From Steve and crosses for kisses from the little girls. Kathy had told her that everything was fine. 'They were all well and happy and hoped she was the same. Carol smiled crookedly at the thought. Yes, she was the same—and always would be, she guessed. As the Christmas drew near Carol found herself constantly planning what she could do for Elizabeth's children, shopping for toys and goodies, searching the counters for gay surprises. She would have liked to fly up there, herself, and be with them over this, the best of holidays. But she didn't dare. She felt sure that if she saw them again, she would not be able to tear herself away. And that would be foolish. 'They were well cared for. And it was probably just her own selfish need for love, her own need to be important to someone, that made her think of thrusting herself into Fred's home on the pretext that his children needed her. Brent Gibson dropped into her studio one wintry afternoon while she was busy with her painting. "Tm calling for help!" he cried gaily. "I simply can't tackle the job alone this year!" "Now what job can that be?" Carol asked. "Shopping for the staff's Christmas gifts,' Brent said, and then went on with comical ruefulness. "That's old big-hearted Brent! Other bosses send an office boy out to do this little job—or, if they are very, very thoughtful they get their private secretary to take over. But not Brent Gibson. Oh, no! He has to go out and select each gift himself! Please tell me why!" Carol smiled. "It's because you're the best boss in the whole world. But don't let that go to your head— I don't really mean it." Then suddenly, inexplicably, "Yes, I do, too, mean it, Brent." "[''m glad you added that," he said soberly. 'Then, "Come along, lady, and help me out." S she reached down her hat from the closet shelf, she dislodged the box that held the clothes she had made for Elizabeth's children. It fell to the floor, the top came off, and dainty frocks and petticoats, shirts and scarves went scattering over the floor. Brent stared at them in surprise, as Carol tried to pick them up. He reached down and rescued one of Trudy's diminutive, ruffled frocks. "And what's this?" he asked. "Looks like a fairy-child's dress." "It is," Carol said gently, as she took the little garment from his hands and placed it back in the box. "It's Trudy's Christmas dress. Elizabeth always made the children new clothes for the holidays, and I'm not going to let the tradition die." "But you sent off a box of clothes just a few weeks ago...." "T know. But I like to sew." She 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN put the box back on the shelf and turned bright eyes to the man. "Come on, or you won't get much shopping done today!" she said brightly. The afternoon turned out to be a gay one, with Brent displaying an uncanny insight into the personalities of the men and women who worked for him. Carol, watching him select each gift with discrimination and, yes, affection, thought how sensitive and perceptive this man was. He ought to have a home and a family, she thought once. But this made her smile. He often said he was wedded to the magazine and the staff members were his family. That was all he wanted, really. Why did she have to sentimentalize over everyone? They topped the day off with dinner at the city's finest restaurant, and then Brent took Carol back to her studio apartment. "It's been a wonderful day!" he said as he told her good night. "And I here and now appoint you my permanent shopper's aid." Carol laughed. It had been wonderful. But when Brent was gone and she was alone, she slumped tiredly on the long couch. This was anticlimax—she was dreadfully lonely. Well, she would go home for Christmas. Her thought swung to Brent. What would he do on that day, sacred to family and family love? A sudden thought made her smile. She would take Brent home with her. He probably wouldn't enjoy it too much, confirmed bachelor that he was, but it would be better than spending the day alone. It proved to be a happy solution. Brent, as on that afternoon of shop- 117 ping, showed a cheerful adaptability to the demands of the situation. He played with her sisters' children, for both Grace and Denise lived close enough to be frequent visitors at their mother's house. Carol missed Elizabeth's children, but Fred had written that they didn't want to leave the ranch. "A Wyoming Christmas can't be beat anywhere!" he had declared. The little holiday made a pleasant break in the year's routine, but Carol was glad to get back to her studio and her beloved easel. She settled down, now, to the work that seemed to be piling up more urgently every week. She had finished illustrations for the little book, and the publisher had been so delighted that he had immediately commissioned her to do a far more pretentious job. It was a demanding piece of art, calling for imagination and creativeness, and Carol had little time to think of anything else. She did, however, manage to send letters regularly to Elizabeth's children, and was always moved by their careful, scrawled replies. HE weeks, the months slid by, and it was late spring when a letter came from Kathy that brought Carol to her feet with a little cry of pain. As usual, it was in the painstaking, stilted phrases that showed so plainly that the child had been warned not to bother her aunt with their troubles. Carol had been able to read between the lines, as clearly as if the words were printed there, "Grandma 'Trent and Daddy say I mustn't tell you how I really feel, Aunt Carol. 'They say I mustn't let you know that we are all awfully lonely and unhappy." Carol had read some such unwritten message in many of Kathy's letters, but she had pretended, even to herself, that it was not there. But this letter.... "We are all well and happy and hope you are the same." And there, as a poignant period to the brave words, was a big, soft blob where a tear had fallen, unnoticed by the child. Then, after the neat, "Your affectnate niece, Kathy" came a P. S. "Grandma Trent is sick in bed. I guess we've just about killed her, we make so much work. Daddy says I'll have to be the woman of the house now, till Grandma gets well again." And then Stevie's inevitable last word, "Gee, ant carol, things is getting pretty tuff around here." Carol stared at the expressive blob on the soiled sheet. 'Then she sighed and went to the telephone. She dialed the magazine's number and asked for Brent. "Brent," she said, keeping her voice under control, "I'm leaving tomorrow morning for Wyoming." "Oh! Something wrong up there?" "Everything, I guess. Though Kathy says they are well and she hopes I am the same. But Brent," her voice shook, "'there's a blob on the paper. She was crying when she wrote that. I've got to go...." "Steady, Carol!" Brent's voice was calming. "I'll come and take you to the airport." Good old Brent! Not a word about her work! Carol gulped. "There're still two weeks before the next cover's due, Brent. I'll get it done, somehow." "Of course you will. But don't worry about it. 'Take it easy, Carol. Take it easy." "Brent," Carol said carefully, "I may have to stay—really stay. You may want to get another artist...." "Let it ride, honey," Brent answered. "Wait till you see how things are. And don't jump in without looking! And looking carefully and honestly!" He laughed, embarrassed. "Listen to old Uncle Brent giving advice. But I mean it, Carol." "T know, Brent. But I've got to See?) ire "Tll be there for you—early enough so you can have your breakfast at the airport. Nothing like speeding the departing staff!" "Thanks, Brent." Carol cradled the receiver. Well, this was the end of her months of resistance. She was giving in—lock, stock, and barrel. She shook herself grimly. "No, I'm not! I'm not giving in. I'm just going up there to look things over!" She got up quickly and began to pack. (To be continued) Life Te Not a Holiday Anne S. W. Gould IFE is an education, we learn whether we want to learn or not. We should realize that trials and troubles are lessons to be learned, the steps by which we climb and grow. This realization should take the bitterness out of our trials; because we progress step by step, onward and upward, all our life. Life is not a holiday, life is an education. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 FROM THE FIEL ) Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Ficld'" in the Magazine, January 1958, page 47, and the Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Margaret R. Jackson NEW ENGLAND MISSION, PORTLAND (MAINE) BRANCH] RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAY OF PLANTS AT BAZAAR, October 18, 1957 Left to right: Sally Ann Chase, Scerctary-Treasurer; Alberta N. Richardson, First Counselor; Ruby S. Marino, Sccond Counselor; Mildred H. MacDonald, President. Margaret R. Jackson, President, New England Mission Relicf Socicty, comments on this outstanding bazaar: "There were twelve tables, including fancywork, homemade pastries, candy, preserves, aprons, dolls, and many other articles. Decorations were fall leaves, in all their beauty, and pine branches." Page 119 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Photograph submitted by Faye K. Nielson SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, September 8, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Berneice Anderson; Beth Gregerson; Florence Staples; Faye K. Nielson, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society; Nola Ware, pianist; Golda Bush, stake chorister; Dean Yergenson, organist; Della Ware; Reva Christensen; Mildred Christensen; Lucille Williams. Second row, seated, left to right: Julia Burr; Myrtle Peterson; Ida Johnson; Lucy James; Dona Bokman; Floral Rasmussen; Jennie O. Winget; June Barney. Back row, standing, left to right: Myrle Morrey; Rosalie Marble, Secretary; Ethel Herring; Lena Barney; Talitha Nielson; Marie Larson; Fiametta Adair; LaVerd Hansen; Helen Swalberg; Genevieve Tietjen; Lou Ella Lee; Ruby Hooper; La Verne Daniels. Photograph submitted by Dorothy S. Blaisdell SANTA ROSA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 27, 1957 Front row, standing at the right, left to right: Catherine Newman, stake organist; Dorothy S. Blaisdell, President, Santa Rosa Stake Relief Society; Alameda Neilson, stake chorister. Also appearing in the group are First Counselor Catherine Woolley and Second Counselor Sarah Neerings. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 Photograph submitted by Dorothy P. Christensen TAHITIAN MISSION, PAPEETE FRENCH AND TAHITIAN BRANCII RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Top picture, left to right, Papeete French Branch Relief Society officers: Afton Ward, organist; Muriel Lethuillier, First Counselor; Cherie Benacek, President; Edna Poroi, Second Counselor; Denise Gobrait, class leader. Bottom picture, front row, seated, left to right, Tahitian Branch Relief Society officers: Tiaki Menemene, First Counselor; Fsther Bennett, President; Raita Sam You, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Poia Palmer, Secretary-T'reasurer; Tiaki Parker, class leader. Dorothy P. Christensen, President of the Tahitian Mission Relief Society, reports: "Two weeks ago (from date of letter, October 26, 1957) the Papeete Branch was made into a 'Tahitian-speaking branch and a Vrench-speaking branch. A_ Relicf Society for each branch was orgamzed. 'The French Branch Relief Socicty is made up of the younger women in the branch. 'The 'Tahitian Branch is made up of the older group of women. We are looking forward to these groups to carry on the active program of the mission." 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Photograph submitted by Myrle B. Johansen EMERY STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT ANTHEMS FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 1957 In the center of the front row are seated: Myrle B. Johansen, President, Emery Stake Relief Society; to the left: Alice Day, Second Counselor; Claire Hunter, stake chorister; to the mght: Neva Jensen, First Counselor; Jane McClanahan, stake organist; Ona Tuttle, stake literature class leader; Ruth Litster, guest conductor from Cleveland Ward. Anna B. Larsen, guest conductor from Ferron Ward, was not present when the picture was taken. Photograph submitted by Ora H. Petersen DANISH MISSION, ODENSE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY TABLE DECORATED FOR THE OPENING SOCIAL, September 30, 1957 Ora H. Petersen, President, Danish Mission Relief Society, reports: "After the recently innovated summer vacation, the Relief Societies in each branch in Denmark held an opening social. All districts have reported an increase in attendance and activity. Many novel and original ideas for table arrangements were introduced. From Odense Branch came this picture of one of the most unique and beautiful arrangements, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 123 using autumn leaves, fall flowers, and part of the food as decoration. A shining silver channel graced the length of the table, in which sailed specially cut open-faced sandwiches in the form of mimiature boats, each flying a Danish flag in the stern. (Danish open-faced sandwiches are both appetizing and decorative, and are world renowned.) Also serving as decoration and food were luscious grapes and red and yellow apples. In addition, creamed chicken and asparagus in patty shells and lemonade were served. Because so many attended the opening social, and because the lesson books have been printed in an attractive, small size, which is easier to carry, even though twenty-five per cent more books were printed this year, they have all been sold, and it will be necessary to print more, "Special book marks on which was written 'The Glory of God Is Intelligence,' 'Read the Scriptures,' in gold lettering on blue, were presented as favors to each woman who attended. After the lunchcon, the new lesson book was presented, then a program, with talks and music, was enjoyed by all." Photograph submitted by Verney J. Olson SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAIT), BURTON WARD TOY DISPLAY AT BAZAAR Verney J. Olson, President, South Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, reports a successful toy-making project by the Burton Ward Relief Society: "In the picture is Geneva Birch, chairman of the toy making project. Sister Estella Walborn is Work Director Counselor. Under the supervision of Sister Birch 110 toys were made from scraps and used materials, with the exception of the monkeys, which were made from socks. 'lhe toys were all stuffed with nylon scraps from a factory, and so the profit was nearly one hundred per cent clear. It was a beautiful display of various toys, and it was a delight to see the joy the ward members showed in buving the toys. All but three toys were sold. Ledia Burrows is president of the Burton W Tard Relief Society." <-> Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle. In doctrine, in the law of the gospel, mall things that pertain to the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D. & C. 88:78). Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 8—The Restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Section 13) For Tuesday, May 6, 1958 Objective: To point out the importance of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood. Divine Authority Necessary NE of the great events in the restoration of the gospel was the conferring of the Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. In this lesson we shall consider some of the implications of this subject. As Latter-day Saints we know by modern revelation that in the beginning the Priesthood was given to man as a necessary part of the plan of redemption. 'There are a number of Biblical examples where men usurped authority and incurred severe punishment. (See 2 Chronicles 26:16-21; Acts 19:13-16.) Men who act without God's authority will be rejected in the day of judgment, declared the Savior. (See Matthew 7:21-23.) Background of Section 13 In preparation for the formal reestablishment of the Church of Page 124 Jesus Christ, or kingdom of God upon the earth, the Lord sent his messengers to confer the authority necessary to effect that organization. It was while Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery continued the work of translation of The Book of Mormon that they went into the woods to pray and inquire of the Lord respecting baptism for the remission of sins, that was mentioned on the plates. Joseph Smith continues his account by writing:.. While we were thus employed, praying and calling upon the Lord, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon us, he ordained us, saying: Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth 'LESSON DEPARTMENT until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness (D. & C. Section 13, See also The Pear] of Great Price, The Writings of Joseph Smith 2:68-69 ). He said this Aaronic Priesthood had not the power of laying on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, but that this should be conferred on us hereafter; and he commanded us to go and be baptized, and gave us directions that I should baptize Oliver Cowdery, and that afterwards he should baptize me. Accordingly we went and were baptized. I baptized him first, and afterwards he baptized me—after which I laid my hands upon his head and ordained him to the Aaronic Priesthood, and afterwards he laid his hands on me and ordained me to the same Priesthood—for so we were commanded. The messenger who visited us on this occasion and conferred this Priesthood upon us, said that his name was John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament, and that he acted under the direction of Peter, James and John, who held the keys of the Priesthood of Melchizedek, which Priesthood, he said, would in due time be conferred on us, and that I should be called the first Elder of the Church, and he (Oliver Cowdery) the second. It was on the fifteenth day of May, 1829, that we were ordained under the hand of this messenger, and baptized. Immediately on our coming up out of the water after we had been baptized, we experienced great and glorious blessings from our Heavenly Father. No sooner had I baptized Oliver Cowdery, than the Holy Ghost fell upon him, and he stood up and prophesied many things which should shortly come to pass. And again, so soon as I had been baptized by him, I also had the spirit of prophecy, when, standing up, I prophesied concerning the rise of this Church, and many other things connected with the Church and this generation of the children of men. We were filled with the Holy Ghost, and rejoiced in the God of our salvation (D. H. C. 1:39-42; also The Pearl of 125 Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:70-73.) Jesus' Evaluation of John the Baptist John the Baptist was considered by Jesus to be one of the greatest of the prophets. He said: "... Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist..." (Mt. 11:11). In commenting upon this statement, the Prophet Joseph Smith observed that the miracles performed by John could not have constituted his greatness, but three things pointed up John's greatness: First, he prepared '... The way before the face of the Lord"; second, he was entrusted with the mission of baptizing Jesus; and third, at that time, John was the only legal administrator in the affairs of the kingdom in holding the keys of power. (See D. H. C. V:260- 261.) We are indebted to modern revelation for additional information about John the Baptist and the Priesthood he held. The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 13 tells of some of these powers. Section 84 makes known that his calling was to administer the "preparatory gospel" (verse 26, 27), and that John was "... Baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews, and to make straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, in whose hand is given all power" (D. & C. 84:28). John the Baptist was a resurrected being when he restored the Priesthood. (See Matthew 27:52, 53.) An Old Testament Prophecy Jesus often referred to the law and the teachings of the prophets. Upon one of these occasions, he applied the fulfillment of an Old Testament prophecy to the mission of John the Baptist as one who should prepare the way for his coming. As we briefly examine this prophecy, let us see how it also fulfills John's mission of restoring divine authority in the latter days: Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. But who may abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when be appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap: And he shall sit as a refiner and putifier of silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness (Mal. 3:1-3). John's Two-Fold Mission As indicated, this prophecy was fulfilled in part during Jesus' lifetime, for he referred to the "messenger" of this prophecy as John the Baptist who prepared the way before him. (See Matthew 11:10.) It is very clear, however, that this same messenger, John the Baptist, was also to prepare the way of Jesus Christ before his second coming. These elements in the prophecy confirm this fact: first, Jesus was to come suddenly to his temple; second, the coming of John the Baptist would occur in the last days. Otherwise, these questions would not be relevant: But who may abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap (Mal. 3:2). The expression "refiner's fire" refers to the great heat required to bring ore into a fluid state making possible a separation of the precious metal from the dross with which in nature it is usually found mixed. "Fuller's soap" was used to cleanse garments and to whiten them. Thus we see that these expressions definitely refer to a burning and cleansing process, both of which are associated in the scriptures with the second coming of Jesus (See Malachi 4:1; II Thessalonians 2:8; and D. & C. 101:23-24.) Third, the sons of Levi were to offer an offering in righteousness. To ascertain whether these three points of Malachi's prophecy were fulfilled during Jesus' mortal ministry, all one need do is ask these questions concerning that period: (1) Did Jesus come suddenly to the temple of Herod? (2) Were the questions asked in the prophecy fulfilled in the ministry of Jesus? (3) Did the sons of Levi of that day offer an offering in righteousness? The answer to each one of these questions would have to be answered in the negative. They could be answered only in connection with Jesus' great second coming. But before that second coming, John the Baptist was to prepare the way by bringing again to the earth the power or authority to act in the name of God. We may say today that John the Baptist has fulfilled his two-fold mission: first, as the forerunner of the Savior in the meridian dispensation (See Mark 1:2-4; John 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT 1:19-23), and second, as the forerunner of Jesus' second coming by the restoration of divine authority in preparation for the re-establishment of the kingdom of God upon the earth. In a similar way Isaiah also foretold, in his fortieth chapter, the coming of John the Baptist in the last days. (See Isaiah 4o:1-5; Matthew 3:12; Luke 3:2-5.) Aaronic Priesthood to Continue When John the Baptist conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver, he used words which might suggest that the Priesthood so conferred would continue on the earth only until the sons of Levi would offer their prophesied offering in righteousness. 'This interpretation, however, can not be held because of a recognition that as long as mottality continues there will be a need for the performance of the ordinances of the preparatory gospel with which that Priesthood is associated. This point is confirmed in Oliver Cowdery's report of this event. He said in his testimony, quoted later in this lesson, that the Priesthood would continue that the sons of Levi might offer their offering. Some Lessons From the Restoration of Priesthood The Aaronic Priesthood was restored one year before the Church was organized. From the opening of this dispensation of the gospel, the Prophet Joseph Smith was being prepared for that formal organization. In addition to the numerous visits with the angel Moroni, Joseph's knowledge was greatly en- 127 hanced by the restoration of the Pricsthood. As one examines the circumstances which occurred on that beautiful day of May 15, 1829, he realizes how important this event was. Let us indicate some of the truths which are suggested by the event itself. (1) The Aaronic Priesthood is the power by which baptism is performed; (2) a valid baptism must be performed by immersion; (3) baptism is for the remission of sins; (4) the ministry of angels comes through sincere faith; (5) ordination to the Priesthood is done by the laying on of hands; (6) the Aaronic Priesthood is limited in its powers; (7) the restoration of Priesthood confirms the apostasy; (8) life after death is affirmed by the resurrection of John the Baptist; (9) John the Baptist acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, the apostles, indicating the difference between the lesser and greater Priesthoods, and also that all who hold the Priesthood act under the direction of one who holds the keys of the Priesthood; (10) the higher Priesthood was promised. Other lessons and truths might also be obtained from this one important event—the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood. Oliver Cowdery's 'Testimony Of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood, we also have the testimony of Oliver Cowdery, written September 7, 1534. _.. On a sudden, as from the midst of eternity, the voice of the Redeemer spake peace to us, while the veil was parted and the angel of God came down clothed with glory and delivered the anxiously looked for message, and the keys of the Gospel of repentance. What joy! What wonder! what amazement! While the world was racked and distracted—while millions were groping as the blind for the wall, and while all men were resting upon uncertainty, as a general mass, our eyes beheld— our ears heard. As in the "blaze of day"; yes, more—above the glitter of the May sunbeam, which then shed its brilliancy over the face of nature! Then his voice, though mild, pierced to the center, and his words, "I am thy fellow-servant," dispelled every fear. We listened, we gazed, we admired! "Iwas the voice of an angel from glory—'twas a message from the Most High, ard as we heard we rejoiced, while His love enkindled upon our souls, and we were rapt in the vision of the Almighty! Where was room for doubt? Nowhere; uncertainty had fled, doubt had sunk, no more to rise, while fiction and deception had fled forever.... I shall not attempt to paint to you the feclings of this heart, nor the majestic beauty and glory which surrounded us on this occasion; but you will believe me when I say, that earth, nor men, With the eloquence of time, cannot begin to clothe language in as interesting and sublime a manner as this holy personage. No; nor has this earth power to give the joy, to bestow the peace, or comprehend the wisdom which was contained in each sentence as it was delivered by the power of the Holy Spirit! Man may deceive his fellow man; deception may follow deception, and the children of the wicked one may have power to seduce the foolish and untaught, till naught but fiction feeds the many, and the fruit of falsehood carries in its current the giddy to the grave, but one touch with the finger of his love, yes, one ray of glory from the upper world, or one word from the mouth of the Savior, from the bosom of eternity, strikes it all into insignificance, and blots it forever from the mind! The assurance that we were in the presence of an angel; the certainty that we heard the voice of Jesus, and the truth unsullied as it flowed from a pure personage, dictated by the will of God, is to me, past description, and I shall ever look upon this expression of the Savior's goodness with wonder and thanksgiving while I am _ permitted to tarry, and in those mansions where _perfection dwells and sin never comes, I hope to adore in that day which shall never cease (D. H. C. 1:43, footnote from Message and Advocate, 1834). Not long after this event, Peter, James, and John conferred the Melchizedek Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, according to the promise made by John the Baptist. Questions for Discussion 1. Why is the Priesthood or authority to act in the name of God necessary? Z. What information is known about John the Baptist and his work? What part of this knowledge is known only to Latter-day Saints? 3. What evidence is there to support the interpretation of Malachi 3:1-3 in this lesson? (a) Who are the sons of Levi? (b) What is to be their offering in righteousness? 4. In what ways did the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood prepare for the organization of the Church? Verily, I say unto you, all among them who know their hearts are honest, and are broken, and their spirits contrite, and are willing to observe their covenants by sacrifice— yea, every sacrifice which I, the Lord, shall command—they are accepted of me (D. & C. 97:8). 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Ussiting Seacher Ilessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 8—"... Be Faithful and Diligent in Keeping the Commandments of God, and | Will Encircle Thee in the Arms of My Love" (D. & C. 6:20). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 6, 1958 Objective: To show that the only way to earn and share God's love is through keeping his commandments. Go's profound love for his children here upon the earth runs as a golden thread throughout the scriptures, both ancient and modern. God's love is the magic alchemy which, if we will but let it, can transform the common incidents of life into wonderful experiences for the growth and development of our souls. We as earthly parents are concerned with the welfare and _prosperity of our children. We try to rear them in an atmosphere of trust and love, and seek to guide and direct them past the pitfalls and dangers along life's way. Our Father in heaven, whose love is perfect, is ever mindful of us, his children. Since the beginning of time, he has sought to lead and direct us into paths of righteousness. He has given us the opportunity of coming to this earth so that we might grow and progress through life's experiences. In order that we might dwell with him forever, in his all-encompassing love:... He gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life (John 3:16). We, as parents, particularly appreciate those of our children who, by obedience to the teachings and regulations of our household, show their love for us. "A wise son maketh a glad father..." (Proverbs 15:20). So it is with our Father in heaven. We must hearken unto his word and be obedient to his laws if we expect his love and blessings. He has told us "I love them that love me..." (Proverbs 8:17). And "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14:15). Recently, there appeared in a newspaper a picture of a woman with tears streaming down her face, clutching lovingly the flag of the free country in which she had just been granted citizenship. 'This touching scene has been repeated thousands of times in recent years, when people from oppressed lands have found a haven of peace and security in the free countries of the world. In every case, however, before earning the protection of freeland citizenship, it was necessary that these individuals be willing to follow the rules and laws and abide by the "commandments" established by these countries for citizenship. Not one of these individuals gained such privileges and blessings Page 129 by wishful thinking, or merely by an expression of desire. In order to gain citizenship in God's kingdom we must know and follow his laws and commandments. He has repeatedly emphasized this fact by such statements as, "My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments" (Proverbs 3:1). "For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light..." (Proverbs 6:23). A warm glow of inner peace and security comes to those who earnestly strive to do the Lord's will and to keep his commandments. For surely these commandments and laws are a lamp and a light which shine forth assuring us an inner freedom from oppression. They hold us to the true course and assure us of the great blessing which the Lord promised when he said:... Be faithful and diligent in keeping the commandments of God, and I will encircle thee in the arms of my love (D. & C. 6:20). Certainly, there can be no greater blessing than to know that the Lord loves us, and that if we do his will, we will have his arms protectingly about us. Work Nlecting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 8—Debts and Trouble Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, May 13, 1958 Objective: To recognize that there are occasions when going into debt is proper and desirable, but that personal debts are undesirable, generally. ISCUSSION 4 on "Making Money More Valuable" introduced the subject of debts by emphasizing that savings should precede spending. 'That lesson should be reviewed as a part of this discussion. When Debts Are Justifiable Buying a Home: Few people can save enough to buy a home without a mortgage, except by delaying the purchase of their home too long. The most precious time to own a home is while the children are young, and, usually, a home is bought when savings are available only for the payment of the equity —a good down payment—and modest furnishings. This is a justifiable occasion to go into debt, if the following rules are followed: 1. The total cost of the home in condition for occupancy is reasonable in relationship to one's current and prospective income. For people of modest to average means, the total cost should not exceed four times current annual income, or, if the outlook is for considerably increased income within a reasonable period of time. 'To invest more in the home will probably mean that there would not be sufficient income to cover other essential 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT items, and thus life could become a constant struggle. 'Home, Sweet Home'' is a desirable and reasonably priced home. 2. Sufficient funds have been saved in advance so that the home can be furnished for living without added debts beyond the mortgage. Some of the most difficult family problems have been precipitated when people have failed to make allowance for the cost of preparing the grounds, buying furniture, and setting up housekeeping. Important though it is to own a home, most people will find it wise, if space can be rented, to delay the buying of their home until they have accumulated these savings. 3. The mortgage is paid off as rapidly as possible. This policy is sound for two reasons: a. The first is the general goal of being out of debt, which has been proved wise through generations of time and among all peoples. B. The second is because of the cost of borrowing money. Obviously the real cost of a home is what has to be paid out of one's income to acquire the home. It requires $13,324 to repay a $10,000 loan, with interest at 6 per cent, in monthly payments over a tenyear period. It requires $19,332 to repay the same loan, if extended over twenty-five years. This means that increasing the period of repayment of the loan from ten to twenty-five years increases the cost forty-five per cent. When people borrow money, they are usually paying a higher price than they think, since the true cost is the amount that must be repaid, including interest and other charges. Financing an Education: Borrowing money to finance an education is justifiable and often wise. 'The development of one's talents prepares one to render greater service. The expenditure of this borrowed money helps the individual to acquire the ability to earn more money with which to repay the loan. 131 When Debts Are Not Justifiable It should be recognized that what is proper for one person under certain circumstances may be unwise for another. We must be our own judges and not the judges of others, remembering that each enjoys or suffers the consequences of his own acts. The following are suggested as warnings: 1. It may be proper to go into debt to buy an automobile if it is indispensable in connection with one's work or as a means of transportation. Otherwise, savings should precede the purchase of the automobile. 'The writer recalls a family that appears to have been blessed greatly with opportunities and means, who were married in 1929 and purchased their first second-hand car for cash in 1936 and their first new car for cash in 1947. The writer has known of young men who quit college because of the burden of payments on a car. Many a student has obtained an inferior education because of neglecting studies due to excessive hours spent in part-time work at a low salary to finance a car. Surely a young woman interested in her future happiness would not be charmed and misled by the apparent economic success of an unwise man. In college, grades, hours of research, and achievement are the measurements of success, not the ownership of a car or the wearing of costly apparel. 2. Solving the problems of unbalanced budgets by borrowing more money is the surest road to financial purgatory. Let us not be misled by such statements as: "Don't let money problems worry you when we can loan you a sufficient amount to cover all your expenses. "We are in a position as a loan company to advance cash to cover a variety of needs: school supplies, doctor and dentist bills, car, or home. If you are in need of cash to purchase a refrigerator, clothes, television, or radio, we can make it possible for you to 132 have them now, and pay them off out of your future earnings." One can readily calculate that $100 borrowed and repaid in twelve months costs $121, and $200 borrowed and repaid in twelve months costs $241. They point out that the monthly burden can be even less if the repayment period is extended over twenty months, but this means paying back $135 on a $100 loan or $269 for a $200 loan. If the family was not able to accumulate the $100 or- $200 to meet these expenses, then how can the family expect to repay the larger amount? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 Contemplating the figures in this lesson showing the cost of borrowing money should help us _ to understand the full meaning of the following statement by President Joseph F. Smith: Get out of debt as fast as you can, and keep out of debt, for that is the way in which the promise of God will be fulfilled to the people of his Church, that they will become the richest of all people in the world (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, page 299). My Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 16—The Tempest Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, May 20, 1958 Objective: To recognize that in The Tempest Shakespeare shares with us a serene view of life; and to perceive that contentment and happiness are dependent upon selfmastery and reconciliation with our fellow men. Oh, wonder! How many goodly creatures are there here! How beauteous mankind is! Oh, brave new world, That has such people in 't! ARLY in 1612, soon after writing The Tempest, Shakespeare left his London theater and retired to Stratford-on-Avon. 'There amid the rural peace which he so loved he spent the four remaining years of his life. Why he found it good to make such a late and drastic change in his life pattern we cannot know. Neither can we know with certainty whether he regarded The Tempest as merely another profit-making task to be performed, or as his last suV. 1. 181-184 preme challenge to create artistic form or body through which his mature personal values might achieve communication and, therefore, enduring identity. While it is admittedly dangerous, therefore, to assert dogmatically that this play communicates the serene, happy attitude toward life and all mankind which really was Shakespeare's in his ripe maturity, it seems equally foolish to regard it solely as routine, and not expressive of his LESSON DEPARTMENT own magic personality and mature beliefs. Somewhere between these two extremes lies the truth—quite probably the truth which each of us must find and cling to separately as it is shaped by our own individualities. The Tempest at its best is more nearly a poem than a play and therefore yields up more of its power when read aloud than when acted on the stage. Even more powerfully than previously, thought and style are one, herein, just as every artistic creator cannot exclude his essential self from that which he creates. To a degree, then, this play is the mature Shakespeare; but to what degree who shall presume to say? Or to summarize: to those who find mystery and symbol and poetry in this play and ask what they mean, Shakespeare might reply that they mean to each person whatever beauty or depth of life he finds in the play. It might well be that this play remains one of Shakespeare's most popular works, not because it explains but because it charms and delights. On our part, let us admit that this might be exactly what he wanted, and he fashioned his art accordingly. 'Therefore, don't ask what it means, but experience it fully as you go. Since no definable destination is ever reached, we must find all its charm and delight and subtlety in the journey else we find it not at all. Yet each time we read it, the play speaks a different combination of values and delights, which might partially explain Shakespeare's various appeals to audiences hundreds of years and thousands of miles apart. 133 Plot Shakespeare obeys the unities by having all the action of the play occur in one place within a single day. By skillful use of switchbacks he tells how, twelve years earlier, Prospero, Duke of Milan, was far more interested in books and magic than in being a nobleman. Realizing this so-called weakness, his brother Antonio usurped his position and put Prospero and his infant daughter, Miranda, to sea in a rotten boat which was cast up on an island inhabited by Caliban, a halfhuman creature whose mother, the witch Sycorax, had imprisoned the spirit Ariel. By employing his own magic Prospero made Caliban and Ariel his servants. The play opens in a_ tempest brought about by Prospero who shipwrecks on his island Alonso, King of Naples; his brother Sebastian, his son Ferdinand, honest Gonzalo, and Antonio, Prospero's own brother. Also by Prospero's design, the king's son Ferdinand is cast up on shore separately, so that his father believes him dead. Instead, he meets Prospero's daughter Miranda and they further fulfill Prospero's plan by falling in love, although Prospero pretends to think Ferdinand a spy and forces him to do menial tasks as punishment. Lusting for power, the king's brother, Sebastian, and Prospero's brother, Duke Antonio, plot the murder of King Alonso and Gonzalo, his loyal counselor, even while Caliban induces Stephano, a drunken butler, and 'Trinculo, a jester, to help him murder Prospero that they may control the island. Prospero frees Ferdinand and promises him Miranda, then commands the spirit Ariel to amuse them with a masque or play. The play is interrupted when Prospero foils the plot of Caliban, Stephano, and 'Trinculo. Then he brings in Alonso and his party, all under Prospero's spell. He forgives his brother his treachery of twelve years earlier, but demands return of his dukedom. Prospero restores Ferdinand to his father, King Alonso, gives up forever his own practice of magic, and prepares to sail back in happiness to Italy, leaving the half-human Caliban once again the only living creature on the island. The Tempest As Word-Music Prospero's island is Shakespeare's true land of enchantment. It is haunted by sprites and magic; all of us feel at once that the burden of this poem is sheer fantasy, and yet, mirage or vision though it may be, it so quickens our hungry imaginations and lifts our hearts that its magic is too much loved ever to be resisted. And the real magic is never on the island, but in the words. Poetry and beauty dominate even the half-beast Caliban who describes the island truly to his chums Stephano and Trinculo: Be not afeard. The isle is full of noises, Sounds and sweet airs that give delight and hurt not. Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments Will hum about mine ears, and sometime voices That, if I then had waked after long sleep, Will make me sleep again. And then, in dreaming, The clouds methought would open and show riches Ready to drop upon me, that when 1] waked, I cried to dream again. III. 2. 144-152 When Caliban speaks thus, the limpid beauty of his utterance makes him more than human, rather than less. "Dainty Ariel," the fairy servant to Prospero, might well be expected to catch his own delicate lightness and tinyness as he incarnates his own definition of the freedom soon to be his in the very song he sings of himself, roaming free in his beloved woods: Where the bee sucks, there suck I. In a cowslip's bell I lie, There I couch when owls do cry. On the bat's back I do fly After summer merrily. Merrily, merrily shall I live now Under the blossom that hangs on the bough. V. 1. 88-94 As one might expect of an elf, this is light and airy, and the song of one securely at home in the comforting lap of Mother Nature. These same ingredients appear also in the speech of Prospero as he defines the scope of his magic and plans to give up his occult powers. In his words appear a vastness, a majesty, and a sweetness of tone which are appropriate to his larger soul and station. After hearing such lines as these it is small wonder that many have felt Prospero to be Shakespeare himself: Ye elves of hills, brooks, standing lakes, and groves, And ye that on the sands with printless foot Do chase the ebbing Neptune and do fly him When he comes back; you demipuppets that By moonshine do the green sour ringlets make, Whereof the ewe not bites; and you whose pastime Is to make midnight mushrooms that rejoice 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT To hear the solemn curfew, by whose aid— Weak masters though ye be—I have bedimmed The noontide sun, called forth the mutinous winds, And 'twixt the green sea and the azured vault Set roaring war. To the dread rattling thunder Have I given fire, and rifted Jove's stout oak With his own bolt. The strong-based promonto Have I made shake, and by the spurs plucked up The pine and cedar. Graves at my command Have waked their sleepers, oped, and let 'em forth By my so potent art. But this rough magic I here abjure, and when I have required Some heavenly music—which even now I do— To work mine end upon their senses, that This airy charm is for, I'll break my staff, Bury it certain fathoms in the earth, And deeper than did ever plummet sound I'll drown my book. V. 1. 33-57 Such singing lines as these (the play abounds with them) represent the poet-dramatist Shakespeare at his best. Further, they prove that Prospero's magic lies not in_ his wand or cloak but in his creator's word-skill. If the scene and tone of The Tempest seem too much like vapor and make-believe to deserve consideration, we should once more stand chastened before a patient, wise Shakespeare who herein amasses overwhelming evidence that the unseen imaginative values of life are often most real. At least Prospero's definition of these unreal realities typically gives to these words their own fascination. 'The masque has just ended. Prospero explains to his maturing daughter: 135... These our actors, As I foretold you, were all spirits, and Are melted into air, into thin air. And, like the baseless fabric of this vision, The cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself— Yea, all which it inherit—shall dissolve And, like this insubstantial pageant faded, Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life Is rounded with a sleep.... IV. 1. 148-158 Such a passage is neither merely philosophy or beauty or even words; it is sheer poetry and superb literature, a fitting passage to come from the mouth of Prospero who, at least symbolically, seems to be the best in Shakespeare. Or perhaps Dover Wilson puts it best in The Essential Shakespeare: "In King Lear Shakespeare succeeded in showing Truth.. As Beauty; in The Tempest he succeeded in showing Beauty... As truth" (page 145). Major Themes The beauty of Shakespeare's language in this play arises from his beautiful concept of man, from the good and friendly world of plentiful nature in which man lives, and from the idealized self-fulfillment which man can earn for himself by searching out the laws of a benevolent, ordered universe and obeying them in charity, humility, and wisdom. Briefly, then, this play is unified by one large principle—reconciliation: man to man through exercising one's better motives; and to nature by obeying nature's laws in charity. (See V. 1. 16-30 and epilogue.) 1. Nature The spiritual atmosphere dominates this play. But man (as symbolized by Prospero) does not triumph over Nature by withdrawing from it, but by purifying and renewing it. When Prospero comes to the island he is withdrawn, and selfish in his desire to possess knowledge for its own sake; he had not earned wisdom and__ integrity. Through twelve years of experience and growing he comes to control all surrounding elements of Nature, yet his contro] is neither a rational, intellectual exploitation nor is it coldly scientific. He finds self-fulfillment by learning the ethical, moral laws of ordered Nature; once these truths are applied to himself he then achieves an integrating oneness. By mastering Nature's laws he comes to control passion and revenge. Thus the island-universe is "controlled by a man who has become himself—" merciful, forgiving, patient, unselfish, yet humble in his earned knowledge and power. 2. Free Interplay of Good and Evil Antonio and Sebastian lust for worldly power sufficiently to kill in order to achieve it. Poor half-beast, half-man Caliban misleads a drunken butler and a fool into believing that through murdering Prospero, their superior, they may come to enjoy the power and_ leadership which he now possesses. 'The spirit Ariel is also in bondage, but his acknowledgment of Prospero's superiority and his loyal service to him earn him his freedom, while Caliban is not capable of freedom since he is slave to his lower passions. Antonio and Sebastian turn from serving their evil selves once Prospero discovers their evil plot and forgives them. Prospero, himself, had every reason to become slave to his own desire for revenge, yet he triumphs over his seemingly "justified" tendencies and repays the plotters with forgiveness and love: You, brother mine, that entertained ambition, Expelled remorse and nature, who with Sebastian— Whose inward pinches therefore are most strong— Would here have killed your King, I do forgive thee Unnatural though thou art. Their understanding Begins to swell, and the approaching tide Will shortly fill the reasonable shore That now lies foul and muddy.... V. 1. 75-82 3. Love Just as Prospero fulfills himself through pity, atonement, and forgiveness—all great principles of Christian love—so his daughter Miranda and young Ferdinand find fulfillment in their conjugal love which is to receive the blessing of both fathers and that of Christian marriage as well. Both for Ferdinand and Miranda love not only provides natural fulfillment, but it is good within itself and promises greater good to come. 'The courtship of these two is one of the beauties of the play. It depicts the very purity of love. This is exemplified powerfully in the first meeting of Ferdinand and Miranda, which is filled with religious symbolism. In their words to each other we come to know not only the sublime beauty of pure love, but also the tremendous power 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT for good which emanates from such a relationship. A somber note precedes their meeting when, in one of Shakespeare's most hauntingly beautiful lyrics, the spirit Ariel reminds Ferdinand that he alone of the ship's crew is still alive: Full fathom five thy father lies, Of his bones are coral made, Those are pearls that were his eyes. Nothing of him that doth fade But doth suffer a sea change Into something rich and strange. Sea — hourly ring his knell Dingdong... Dingdong, bell. I. 2. 397-404 (Read Act I, scene 2, lines 405-494.) The culmination of their love comes in their betrothal and in the masque which follows. In this lovely scene all nature in her bounty attends this most faithful love, standing as witness to their mutual pledges of love and constancy: Ceres, most bounteous lady, thy rich Jeas Of wheat, rye, barley, vetches, oats, and pease; Thy turfy mountains, where live nibbling sheep, And flat meads thatched with stover, them to keep; Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims, Which spongy April at thy hest betrims To make cold nymphs chaste crowns and thy broom groves, 137 Whose shadow the dismissed bachelor loves, Being lasslorn; thy pole-clipped vineyard; And thy sea marge, sterile and rocky-hard, Where thou thyself dost air—the Queen o' the Sky, Whose watery arch and messenger am I. IV. 1. 60-71 (Also read IV 1. 82-124.) Nature, beauty, word-music, lovebeatitude—all add up to form one symbol of wonder and goodness; indeed all high human values are reconciled together into Prospero's island, the play's largest unifying symbol, this "brave new world that has such people in 't." Perhaps such an assumption is not justified, yet notwithstanding, how tempted all of us must be to regard The Tempest as the most fitting representative summary of Shakespeare's priceless bequest to his fellows, as well as a benediction worthy of his dextrous pen and his own great heart. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What meaning has this play to you? 2. How does Prospero's island come to be enchanted? Is it real? 3. From evidence presented within the lesson prove Prospero a good man. 4. Why is The Tempest a Christian play? Winter Sime Stella Craft Tremble This is the time of blow-your-hands, The time of stamp-your-feet... The time when shorter, darker days And blizzard snowstorms mect! The time when from the throat of night There comes an icy rain Encasing every shrub and tree Outside my windowpane. When every lake, through somber days Looks with a frozen eve Upon an altered, frigid world And silent, leaden sky. The Mississippi's feet are cold, But songs are in its mouth Where levees, lying in the sun, Are laughing in the South! Social Science —Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 14—Families Have Neighbors Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, May 27, 1958 Objective: To show the importance of wholesome neighborhood relationships on the family life. ONE element of happiness involves the satisfactions which we receive from our associations with others. It is our nature to be gregarious but, even without this characteristic, it is almost impossible for any one of us to isolate himself from others. In this day and age the fact that we will have people around us is certain, irrespective of our own wishes and desires. The satisfaction and happiness we receive from these associations are dependent almost entirely upon our own efforts. A good neighbor knows that where much is given, much is received. And who is our neighbor? Ordinarily we consider our neighbors to be those who live in close proximity to us. In early times, the extent of our neighborly associations was limited by distance and numbers, but as transportation and communication developed, the neighborhood frontier gradually expanded until today it extends to all the world. This expansion has brought new neighbors, some whom we never see, and with it new responsibilities for us as neighbors. There are certain fundamental characteristics which combine to make a good neighbor. There are certain things we should not do. There are certain qualities and attitudes which we must have Page 138 if we are to be good neighbors and the field of service in being a good neighbor is almost limitless. As we examine this subject, we shall know that a Latter-day Saint must be a good neighbor, if he is properly applying that which he has been taught. The Law of Moses When the Lord revealed the Ten Commandments to Moses on Mt. Sinai, two of these commandments had to do with our neighborly relations. Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's (Exod. 20:16-17). Significantly, most of the teachings concerning neighbors as found in the Old Testament related to things which we should not do. In Proverbs, for instance, we were admonished against imposing upon and visiting too much with our neighbors as follows: Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee (Prov. 25:17). LESSON DEPARTMENT The Psalmist had the consideration of one's neighbor in mind when he said: Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill?... He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour (Pss. USeay Ht) From Jeremiah we are cautioned against imposing upon our neighbors: Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, and his chambers by wrong; that useth his neighbour's service without wages, and giveth him not for his work (Jeremiah 22:13). The Old Testament advice is just as good and pertinent today as it was centuries ago. We all know our neighborly relations are better if we do not carry tales concerning our neighbors, if we do not express jealousy of them and seek things which they possess, and if we avoid criticism and impositions. It is significant to note that the violation of the two "neighbor commandments" given Moses can account for most of the strife between men and nations in all ages. Love Thy Neighbor As Christ unfolded his teachings, it became evident that being a good neighbor entailed more than refraining from doing certain things. Let us examine his teachings in this respect. A lawyer once asked the Savior what he should do to inherit eternal life. Jesus said unto him, "... What is written in the law?..." (Luke 10:26). In reply the lawyer referred to the written law of the day, which was: 139... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself (Luke 10:27). Jesus told him he had answered right and said: "... This do, and thou shalt live." 'The lawyer pursued it further by asking: "And who is my neighbour?" In reply the Savior told the story of the good Samaritan. (See Luke 10:30-36.) After telling this story Jesus asked the lawyer this question: "Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?" (Luke 10:36). And the lawyer answered: "He that shewed mercy on him." And Jesus said unto him, "Go, and do thou likewise" (Luke 10:37). Thus the Savior suggested a good neighbor formula. The secret of successful neighborhood living was summed up when Christ gave the following counsel: Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets (Mt. 7:12). Further refinement of the Christian attitude towards others is found in Matthew: Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Mt. 5:43-44, 48). And in Luke we find solid advice by which we may deal with our neighbors: Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven: Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again (Luke 6:37-38). For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he... (Prov. 23:7). The way we feel in our hearts towards others determines the kind of neighbors we are. 'The family is a neighborhood in miniature. The feeling which we have about others was created and is nurtured in the family setting. (In this connection see Lesson 11, "As the Twig Is Bent.") The child who has learned to give and take, who has acquired a gentle mode of conduct, and whose parents have a_ satisfactory relationship with the adults in the neighborhood, has a good chance of being a successful neighbor. Being a good neighbor involves the constant process of evaluating our thoughts and actions in relation to our neighbors. Fortunately our thoughts and actions can be improved. We can discard those which are harmful and develop those characteristics which make us good neighbors. 'This is the process of perfection and it is applicable in our relationships with neighbors as well as in our own exaltation. Just as the family influences the neighborhood, so does the neighborhood influence the family. 'The neighborhood is a child's first contact with the world outside the home, and fortunate is the child who finds this contact pleasant and agreeable. 'The neighborhood helps mold the child, and parents should therefore give sober thought in selecting a neighborhood in which their children will be surrounded with desirable influences. Let us now consider some of the elements of being a good neighbor. Respect for Our Neighbor Respect for one's neighbors is essential. It implies tolerance, friendliness, forgiveness, overlooking the mistakes of our neighbors, and refraining from speaking evil of them. On one occasion President Joseph F. Smith said in General Conference:... We admonish you not only to keep the greatest of all the commandments that has ever been given of God to man, to love the Lord your God... But we exhort you also to observe that second law. To love our neighbors as yourselves; return good for evil, do not revile others because you are or may be reviled.... I desire to impress... Upon... Parents the necessity of properly instructing and teaching their children with reference to this glorious principle, charity and love, that love for our neighbor that will enable us to cherish his rights as sacredly as we cherish our own, (and) to defend his rights and liberties... (Gospel Doctrine, page 256). If we have respect for the person of our neighbor we will be honest in our dealings with him. If thou borrowest of thy neighbor thou shalt restore that which thou hast borrowed; and if thou canst not repay then go straightway and tell thy neighbor, lest he condemn thee. If thou shalt find that which thy neighbor has lost, thou shalt make diligent search till thou shalt deliver it to him again (D. & C. 136:25-26). 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT As a good neighbor, we should be happy in the accomplishments and successes of our neighbors and should not be jealous of their attainments. Likewise, even if our neighbor has wronged us, or makes a mistake, we should carefully avoid criticism and never delight in his misfortune. Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth: Lest the Lord see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him (Prov. 24:17-18). Friendliness Towards Neighbors Perhaps the most contagious desirable characteristic in any neighborhood is a spirit of friendliness. To the resident of long standing it gives a sense of security and contentment. 'To the newcomers, it spells a warm welcome and a feeling that all is well in their new location. It results in lifetime friendships that survive any number of geographic changes and sometimes develops into relationships even closer than those existing among members of the same families. Friendly neighbors are always the same and usually instill into their children a sense of loyalty toward other neighbors. This feeling remains with the children and is carried to new neighborhoods as they establish homes of their own. Joint neighborhood projects are appropriate in some neighborhoods, such as Christmas lighting projects, children's parades, and baby-tending exchanges. These promote friendliness, merriment, and wholesome, co-operative fun. A friendly household is courteous and hospitable to the neighbor who 141 calls. Especially is this true when "Church neighbors" come to call. How important it is that bishoprics, ward teachers, Relief Society visiting teachers, and other Church representatives receive a cordial welcome from all family members. Radio, television, and other pursuits should be set aside while the family plays host to such visitors. This same friendliness and hospitality can be cultivated by the family when invited guests are entertained in the home by special appointment. "Am I My Brother's Keeper?" Nothing warms the heart more than to feel that one's neighbor has a genuine interest in his welfare. Many families have been moved to investigate and join the Church as a result of the kindness shown them by the Relief Society during sickness, accident, death, or other emergency. 'The answer to Cain's question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" is the force which underlies all of the service rendered by the Relief Society and other Church auxiaries, Priesthood quorums, the missionary system, the Church Welfare Program, and neighborly gestures made by individual Latterday Saints. We do not merit the name "saint" or "neighbor" unless our daily actions coincide with this philosophy as consistently as our Sunday observances do. Tolerance of Neighbors' Views and Conduct Many Latter-day Saints find themselves living near neighbors of other faiths, or in communities of contrasting beliefs and practices to our own. 'This provides an excellent opportunity for us to view our way of life in its proper perspective and accept our neighbors the way Christ intended. Our convictions need not be compromised in any way, but we should, in all humility, learn to appreciate our neighbor's virtues, overlook his faults, and hope that he will be charitable enough to do the same with us. Our children should be taught that there is good in all mankind, but that our standards are based on what we have been taught and the great responsibility we assume as Church members. We can teach the gospel best to our neighbors by the lives we live, not by discrediting the beliefs and practices of our neighbor. Newcomers should be extended a hand of fellowship and brotherhood in a Latter-day Saint community, invited to participate in our activities, and when opportune and appropriate, the gospel should be explained to them.... If any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and have no company with him, that he may be ashamed. Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother (2 Thess. 3214-15). Forgiveness for Neighbors As human beings, we often find ourselves in error, one way or another. We lean heavily on the principle of repentance for ourselves, but may be slow to forgive mistakes in another. As families and neighbors we need to cuitivate the ability to forgive one another. Christ admonished us to forgive men their trespasses (Mt. 6:14-15) not once, but seventy times seven if necessary (Mt. 18:21-22). He gave the classic example of forgiveness in his encounter with the adulteress (John 8:1-10), as well as the test which any man must take before he accuses another. None of us can pass that test, so it behooves us to dismiss our grudges and heed counsel such as given by President Joseph F. Smith:... We ought to say in our hearts, Jet God judge between me and thee, but as for me, I will forgive. I want to say to you that Latter-day Saints who harbor a feeling of unforgiveness in their souls are more guilty and more censurable than the one who has sinned against them. Go home and dismiss envy and hatred from your hearts; dismiss the feeling of unforgiveness; and cultivate in your souls that spirit of Christ which cried out upon the cross, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do...." The man who has that spirit in his heart and keeps it there will never have any trouble with his neighbor.... (Gospel Doctrine, page 256). In spite of conscientious effort to be a good neighbor, misunderstandings and differences sometimes arise. To solve these differences we must first put our own houses in order, avoid spreading evil gossip to others, and without anger discuss the differences with our neighbor. Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother (Mt. 18:15). New Opportunities for Neighboring In view of our complicated, rapidpaced living today, the world is in dire need of "good neighbors" and men everywhere are looking hungrily for good Samaritans. The word "neighbor" denotes far more than one nearby. Its greatest meaning entails outward giving of one's self in the interest of one's fellow men. The priest and Levite, in Christ's parable, both came close enough to befriend the wounded man, but only the Samaritan earned the designation of "neighbor." When our hearts are right, being a good neigh- 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT bor becomes more than a responsibility—it becomes a privilege. Each of us should "search our hearts" and see how we can improve our neighborly relations. We should contemplate our homes and see, in the words of President David O. McKay, "whether the spirit of our homes is such that if an angel called, he would be pleased to remain" (President David O. McKay, October Conference, 1951). If we cannot give an unequivocal and affirmative reply to this query, we have yet some changes to make. There is a destiny which makes us brothers; None goes his way alone. And whatever we give unto the lives of others Comes back again into our own. Supplementary References 1. "Relief Society Assists in Welfare Program for Marysville, Yuba City Flood" —Alice I. Ferrin, The Relief Society Magazine, April 1956, page 226. 2. "When Mother's Reputation Was at Stake"—Nedra Stone Nickell, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1956, page 381. 3. European Relief—last war. 4. "A Pictorial Portrayal of the Tabernacle Choir in Europe," Improvement Era, January 1956, page 16. 5. "The Expanded Indian Program," Spencer W. Kimball, The Improvement Era, December 1956, page 937. 6. "Welfare in the Church," Alfred W. Uhrhan, The Improvement Era, December 1956, page 810. 7. "Comparison — and Covetousness," Richard L. Evans, The Improvement Era, January 1957, page 44. 8. "The Golden Rule in Action," Fred Schwendiman, The Improvement Era, May 1957, page 314. 9. "Thy Neighbor as Thyself," R. G. Hansen, Ph. D., The Improvement Era, May 1957, page 342. 10. "A World of Neighbors," Bonaro W. Overstreet, National Parent-Teacher, June 1957, page 15. 143 a CHAPPELL'S SACRED SONG we. CONCERT TRANSCRIPTIONS er LORENZ SACRED PIANO DUETS 1.50 _— SABBATH DAY MUSIC................ 1.25 Ae SACRED MUSIC PIANO SOLO...... 1.50 _— SACRED PIANO SOLOS............... 1.00 — SACRED MELODIES WITH VARIATIONS..............-.2ccssseceeesenee 1.25 - SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO.... 1.50 om SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC............ 1.25 a TRANQUIL HOURS...........0..0....... 1.50 = TWENTY PIANO DUETS TRANSCRIPTIONS............00..0020... 1.25 a TWELVE SACRED SONGS.......... 1.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Sacred Music for the Church Pianist OF FAVORITE HYMNS....._.......... 1.00... PIANO HYMN VOLUNTARIES— VOLS. 1, 2, 3... Eee ceen eeeea. 1.50 Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1) On Approval OD Charge 0 Money Enclosed Name Address City & State DaynesMicce_| 145 WORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of Salt Lake City 11, Utah —_ FAVORITES $1.25 144 Sail For EUROPE July 25, 1958 NEW ZEALAND (New Zealand Temple Dedication) It is possible that we might have one or two Temple Dedication reservations left. Write to us immediately if you are interested. HISTORIC TRAIN Write for itineraries for the European and Historic Train Tours. Get your reservations early as groups will be limited. The Historic Train will include the Pageant at the HILL CUMORAH. For further information write or phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 ®@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1958 11. Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, "Love Your Enemies," chapter 18, page 337- Questions for Discussion 1. In what way has our neighborhood circle widened in the last fifty years? Since the time of Christ? 2. Describe the best Latter-day Saint neighbor you ever had. 'The best nonLatter-day Saint neighbor you have had. Did they have characteristics in common? 3. How does one select a_neighborhood when moving to a new _ location? What part should children play in making the choice? 4. What steps have been taken by the Latter-day Saints to be good neighbors to the Lamanites? 5. How does the Relief Society help us to be better neighbors? 6. In what ways can we be "our broth-, "? Er's keepers? Birthday Congratulations Ninety-seven e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles —... Eee 35 150 to 300 miles _.......02.....0...... 39 300 to 600 miles -................2...... -45 600 to 1000 miles - 1000 to 1400 miles sd 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Mrs. Cevrest1A TErry PETERSON Fairview, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Crara Newton MaucHan Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Brita ERrtcKson LUNDGREN Mesa, Arizona Ninety-one Mrs. Mary Ann Barty SMITH Randolph, Utah Ninety Mrs. Carouine Kinc PRINGLE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary CAROLINE MorvrEeNSEN CROWTHER Manassa, Colorado QUR LEADERS SPEAK Some of the most beautiful and inspiring testimonies of the Gospel have been given at the Devotional, held weekly on the Brigham Young University campus. In this volume are contained excerpts from these Devotionals, arranged by subject, which provides a wonderful source of reference material for ceachers, missionaries, and general readers. $2.99 = HANDY SCRIPTURE (UID Benjamin Alward so t Sie oe ide.;.. Seripturt Bt All scriptures supporting the main features in the —_ Restoration of the Gospel are assembled and_ or- _ ganized for immediate reference in this handy, pocket-size book. Missionaries who use the standard missionary teaching plan will especially welcome this book. $1.7) THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS and the FUTURE Roy W. Doxey In twelve succinct chapters, the author brings to the fore the unique features of The Doctrine and Covenants and points up the three principal purposes of this Standard Work: to warn the world, to tell events of the future, and to give evidence of the reality beyond the grave. "Wainy Bis <n. ——a ocorote: Bok (o. DESERET BOOK COMPANY P 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City Utah 44 East South Temple, | | Salt Lake City, Utah.,, |! Names... Cesciw......0m ——_ a ——— ooo | | (Ce NE Zone State. I Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. SS nes ss mee ee ree cee see ee es ee es ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe =!! | Please charge for the numbered (encircled) books: 1 2 3 Amount enclosed $ | Address. O.......... E cece Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( )} | have an account. | | | EMl-27-164-36798 OCi 58 Who Left Jimmy Out? It's really surprising how many children are "left out in the cold" when it comes to life insurance provisions. Usually it happens this way: Parents set up a wellplanned insurance program. They include in the policy the names of all of their children: Then along comes little Jimmy. Unless the policy provides for future additions to the family under the beneficiary clause, little Jimmy will be literally left out. It's something you just wouldn't want to happen to your children. How long has it been since you took a close look at your own policies? It's a good practice to make sure your present insurance is keeping pace with those important events in your family life —a new job, a new home, family additions, etc. We at Beneficial Life believe in service. Your Beneficial Life agent will be happy to check these important changes as they affect your insurance program. There is no obligation. "CHILDHOOD" the most unusual baby book you ever saw! A teddy bear, a rag doll, and a music box try to identify their room-mate. As_ they disocver "clues," the baby's height and weight, vital dates and names become part of the story—which is, in turn, the story of your own baby right up to the first day of school. There is even a photo album, and an attached envelope for baby's valuable papers, and even a record of immunizations, childhood diseases, etc. 32 pages with full-color illustrations. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Life Building, Salt Lake City, Utah RUITO) noo ece ees ccececesecencsceczeesece=++ «Seen ce nos -cueeee Beneficial Life Bldg' Salt Lake City, Utah Street or RED....2....0.... Sscscssccessccsecceseeeseceeecscesensteeennces Gitlys.......2cssececene-n----------- ene e State _ For copy, send 25c to cover handling and maile BENEFICIAL LIFE. Grasanes OE) Company he a MAGA ZY iy y NE MARCH 1958 meee: " ts ba s 2h dyortel have sft of PIMP ecw. - aa erecind es. 10S > GT Raow: ~ ously oF Ijpave all 5" ats? Hats 4 vouls SIO, 3 Z a have BE g Repeat in Silence Eva Willes Wangsgaard A pitcher fashioned like an ear of corn Holds life within Japonica's bright gift Of crimson beauty where loosed petals drift On wisdom from St. Paul, the Roman-born. Red springtime from the Orient, the gold Of Indian maize, ceramic artistry, All blended in symbolic unity Repeat in silence here the brief we hold: If hands that love these blossoms in the East Clasped red man's and white artist's, too, to find That charity, which suffers long, is kind, They would discover human strife had ceased. All hearts would meet as Book meets maize and flower, And charity would shape our crucial hour. The Cover: Ocean Vista, Tahiti Photograph by Studio Mackenzie Submitted by Larson Caldwell Frontispiece: Blossoms and The Book Luoma Photos Cover Design by Even Jensen Srom Near and Sar This octogenerian was thrilled as I spent this evening reading the December 1957 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. First, I scanned the Magazine for poems. The lessons always get my eye. I read each one carefully before its day of presentation. Writing with a_ string ("Tie Your Ideas With String," by Sylvia Pezoldt, page 833) seemed interesting and full of ideas. 'That dear Bodell Jensen (page 823), I wish she gave more details about her rugs. The cookies ("Holiday Guests Deserve the Best,' by Helen W. Anderson, page 817), tasted good, especially the rasin-sugar cookies. I smacked my lips on those I'd like to try. President Clark's book ("Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business?"') I would like to own. All the ideas were grand for Christmas. The '"Testimonies of the First Presidency" (page 798) revealed the very spirit of Christmas, and it was wonderful to read of "The Arrival of the Shepherds." —Laura P. Merrill Logan, Utah I love the Magazine, but nothing in it has ever stirred me as Helen Candland Stark's "Pray Without Ceasing" (First Prize Poem, Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, January 1958). It thrills me to know we have such artists in the Church. The vivid imagery of this poem and the beautiful sound are second only to the profound and inspiring thoughts expressed in it. With each reading, it takes an added meaning for me. —Manan S. Bergin Palo Alto, California When men want to express themselves in humble terms before God, they turn to the Bible. This is strongly brought out in the December issue of the Magazine, in the testimonies of President McKay, President Richards, and President Clark. All believe in their hearts that God "so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." —Charles V. Worthington Los Angeles, California Page 146 I want to thank you for the wonderful inspiration and help I have received this year from The Relief Society Magazine. All of the lessons are very inspirational. I have especially enjoyed the ones on Shakespeare. I am teaching the literature lessons in the 'Tucson Second Ward, and also I had the privilege last year of teaching in the Tucson Third Ward. I am very grateful for this opportunity, for it has given me a wonderful background for the study of Shakespeare and the Elizabethan period, and a greater love for the man who understood human nature and could portray it so beautifully in his plays and sonnets. I thank the members of the General Board for giving us all the courses of study we have in Relief Society, and for presenting them in the Magazine. They provide a liberal education for us. I am proud to be a member of such a wonderful organization. —Katheryn C. Morrow Tucson, Arizona I feel I must tell you how much I enjoy reading the Magazine, especially the recipes from the South African Mission. Also, the stories are lovely, and I like to see the beautiful handwork of the Relief Society sisters — the quilts of many different designs which I have never seen out here. —Carrie Rogers East London South Africa We try to place The Relief Society Magazine wherever possible. Again expressing our appreciation for the wonderful things that are in the Magazine and the great effort that is put forth in the publication. I am thankful I know so many of the contributors because I can just visualize as I read the article that person talking to us with the faith and humility and sincerity that is behind each of these wonderful articles. —Nina N. Bowman President Spanish-American Mission Relief Society THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Josie B. Ba Gladys S. Boyer Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Editor - - - - - = S - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 MARCH 1958 NO. 3 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Relief Societies in Primitive Times? Spencer W. Kimball 148 In Memoriam—Elder Thomas E. McKay. Clifford E. Young 155 The Tahitian Mission ooo... Cece cseceees cesses csceceesenessssssssseesssssesasesescannsoseneeasovanserseanavecceeesePreston R. Nibley 164 The Red Cross and Its Field of Service 2.000000... O. C. Duckett 178 It's Smart to Take Part oo... Cccssccccceccsseececceecesesteseees cece é 179 The Winds of March Helen S. Williams 205 FICTION Wee Pine Knot—Third Prize Story Edna H. Day 157 One Day in Spring aSylvia Probst Young 187 Only Sage and More Sage ee... Mabel Law Atkinson 192 Elizabeth's Children—Chapter III. Olive W. Burt 198 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far o. N. Ccceccsscsescceesessessseececceseesccsecneesconsenssonenees 146 Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Editorial: "Feed My Sheep' occ. CececceescccececcceesceceseneeecocenesscoscesssecnsesscceneecesteneeeseueeeBelle S. Spatford 174 Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Mission Relief Societies for 1957 ec ee cc cceceescceeeeeeeececeesccteeteeceneeneseeees 176 Index for 1957 Relief Society Magazine Available. 178 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue..... Ceceecesnececseseeceseeeneeeeeeeee 180 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 000.00..-Hulda Parker 201 Birthday Congratulations oo... Eeeeiceecceceececeeececeneeneccececeeeseeeeeeeseseeesesceceseessseneessieasnessocananecescaceceuseeesseoseee 208 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Tahitian Mission Dorothy P. Christensen 181 If the Thumb Is Green ooiieie ci ccccccceesecec cesses seseseessueeeessseseunecesssceneeascsvantescecessousenecanecscesesC. W. McCullough 182 You Can Sew—Cutting. A enJean Ridges Jennings 184 Nellie Porter Workman Makes Beautiful Gifts. 186 From Shirt to Slips... 19] POETRY Repeat in Silence—Frontis piece o. Ucc. Ce.. CcssecccssseeececeecececeeseecensnesescceesvesteeseseneeeeeeeEva Willes Wangsgaard 145 Woodland Cathedral....... Caroline Eyring Miner 156 Another Springeee ON... 00S... ORDorothy J. Roberts 163 A Pink Shawl Mabel Jones Gabbott 175 Unlimited............ Alice Whitson Norton 180 Spring Show woceccescccccscccccscsescssscccesseecsceccsereesecceceesees.. Pansye H. Powell 181 Urban Spring... Alice Morrey Bailey 183 le'salls ) an Grace Ingles Frost 186 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20e a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Unset te Cambly ccc... Ccetvec. Occ cseececcecneeccce teeeccececerececeeveceeccaseveucurereerseeceeeeees Lunch at Grandma's o... Ccec. Ccsecessccsecesssseneessssenseesconeee se scseeessasssceenessscevaeeeseesenssssanensesvesecenesecsesece Yellow Padding onnneeea. Ceceeccescsesecccceseeessnssseseseaeseecesesececceeeceeseecsceseeseneeseeseaesssenseneseescesscseceeesses Let There Be Silence oo. Ccecceccc cesses sseeeeessecesecessoveeeevenssaveveeesessseneneveee Clothesline in Sprimg o... C. Cc csc cccseessseseeecscssseesssneetsocesssneccesssscananeneeeensesseseseseeane ESTES Be..-c ue ose staan noncws sascasee nt beelscaevocus owotttbtlltsescsevescosesecenss cc acese-sceecesevece-ss Ji Ilene H. Kingsbury 166 195 196... Miranda Snow Walton 154 Helen H. Winn 171... Christie Lund Coles 208 Relief Societies in Primitive Times? Elder Spencer W. Kimball Of the Council of the Twelve ANET Jones was a new Relief J Society president, very young for such a heavy responsibility. There were in the ward many older women of maturity and_ training, which increased her timidity as she accepted this new calling. 'There were many questions to ask about it as the bishopric set her apart, and they had been intelligent ones, for she was entering her new work with her whole soul. Her inquiries covered the responsibilities, the lesson work, the meetings, the organizational functions and, finally, she said: "Bishop Smith, may I ask one more question to satisfy me? I have long wondered, was there ever a Relief Society before 1842, when the Prophet organized it in our own time?" Bishop Smith scratched his head. "Well, Sister Jones, you have me puzzled now. I do not know. That is a new question to me. Why do you ask?" "Since my call to this new work," she said, "I have lain sleepless hours wondering how I could best serve and I have read the scriptures more than I ever did before." "IT do not recall the mention of any such organization," returned the Bishop. "Tell me what you have in mind." Sister Jones straightened up a little on her chair and began: "When Paul was explaining the organization of the Church to the Page 148 Corinthian saints, he spoke of the body of the Church and mentioned the various members of the body: the eye, the nose, the foot, the hand, the ear, the head: 'But now are they many members, yet but one body,' he says as he explains inter-relationships which exist, and the need of each member of the others. Speaking directly to the saints, he says that there should be no schism in the body but that all members should work together in harmony and unity. 'Then Paul mentions the members which God has set in the Church: '... First apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.' He spoke to the Ephesian saints also about the offices, mentioning apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers. What did he mean by helps and governments, Bishop? "Could the 'governments' be the Priesthood leaders who do actually govern and direct all the work in the Church, and could the 'helps' mean the helping organizations such as Relief Society? In our day we call them Auxiliaries; in the early days perhaps they called them helps. Is it not the same?" The Bishop was thoughtful. "That is interesting, Sister Jones. Go on." And she _ proceeded eagerly. "Much was said about these different members of the body of Christ. RELIEF SOCIETIES IN PRIMITIVE TIMES? Paul explained the same thing to the Roman saints, urging proper service to those who tcach, those who exhort, those who prophesy, those who minister and those who rule" (Romans 12:4-8). The bishopric had many things planned to do this night, but this was a provoking thought. They would hear it through. "What else makes you think there was an earlyday Relief Society?" they inquired. "As I read of the last days of Christ in his mortal tabernacle, I seem to feel his eagerness to teach the people everything which they could absorb to fortify them more fully against the almost unbearable trials which would come. When the verdict had been given and Christ was on his way to Golgotha:... There followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him. But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children (Luke 23:27-28). "And while Jesus proceeded to predict the calamities that would come, I have always felt there might be other more immediate and pointed instruction to them. Here was a great company of women following the spectacular, away from their homes, weeping over the things they could not help nor hinder and forgetting the things which were in their power to change. The Christ was condemned. 'The dye was cast. Fle was to die by being crucified as prophets had said. 'Though he could have failed, though legions of angels could have saved him, it was not to be. He had made his own determination at Gethsemane. All 149 the tears of all Judea could profit him little, but there were things which these daughters of Jerusalem could be doing. He reminded them of that: Weep not for me, I have perfected my life, I am going to my Father, I have finished my work, mortality has no further claim upon me, suffering and pain invoke no fears. 'But weep for yourselves, and for your children.' 6¢] like to think he was saying to these women: Go home, cease your curiosity-seeking, leave alone the spectacular, go home and put your own lives in order so that when the predicted calamities come you will be in the same position as I now am in, wherein I can walk without fear or malice or enmity or bitterness to my crucifix. Go home, Daughters of Jerusalem, to your children and spend your lives rearing them righteously, giving to them proper examples so that for them also there can be no tragedy when calamities howl. "Personally, I cannot hear a mother of Israel ever say to the mountains 'Fall on us,' no matter what the circumstances, if her children have continally walked in the light. I can hardly imagine the children saying to the hills 'Cover us,' if, through the teachings of their parents and the Church, they live on a plane above fear. "As I studied this picture I concluded that if there was not a Relief Society there should have been, and if these women did not belong and attend, they should have done so, for this is the spirit of Relief Society work as I like to think of it. "In our Sixth Article of Faith, we express the thought: 150 We believe in the same organization that existed in the Primitive Church, viz., apostles, prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, etc. "Then I remember that the Prophet Joseph Smith is reported to have said: "Che Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized' (Relief Society Magazine, March 1919, page 129). "The Savior was telling of the time when he should come in glory and he gave his teachings in parable. Certainly, this is the work of Relief Society: humanitarian service, uncompensated service, without regard to rich or poor—race or color or station in life. Certainly, if all women had attended Relief Society and caught the total spirit of the work as revealed through this teaching, they would be among the sheep rather than the goats as the cullingout process began. Read again this beautiful story: When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: And _ before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats: And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me. And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal (Mt. 25:31-46). HE new Relief Society worker was deep in the spirit of her calling. She believed in Relief Society work. There was more and the bishopric was interested. She continued: "The Redeemer visited _ his friends at Bethany often, and upon one occasion taught a great lesson to these two women and others. 'The spiritual life to him was most im- RELIEF SOCIETIES IN PRIMITIVE TIMES? Portant. The homemaking and other duties had their place, but Mary had chosen the 'good' part when she listened to every word which came from her Savior. If a local Relief Society had not been yet organized in Bethany, at least the teachings of the organization were being planted deeply there. The Lord had reminded the one sister: Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things: But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her (Luke 10:41-42). One of the counselors mentioned that he knew many women who were immaculate housekeepers and who let the tenyporal crowd out the spiritual. He recalled that the Savior did not condemn Martha for her concern about household duties, but emphasized the fact that there was a time for all things and this Relief Society women are taught. The other counselor half facetiously asked: "But, Sister Jones, didn't Paul tell the women to keep silent in the churches?" "T do not believe that Paul, or any other leader, ruled out women from important work in the Church," said Sister Jones with a gleam in her eye. She was one who appreciated the blessings of women in the Church and the high pedestal on which the gospel and the Church placed them. "I know that woman's work is all supervised and directed by the Priesthood, but I am sure the Lord never intended that women should be inferior or silent or inactive. "One of the Church commentators explained this in a way | liked," said Sister Jones. "He said 151 that the women of that branch were likely quarrelsome, gossipy, noisy, and dominating, and Paul's idea was to have them be quiet and wait for direction from the Priesthood. Whether or not such an interpretation is accurate I do not know, but it sounds reasonable to me. "Priscilla was assisting her husband Aquila in preaching the gospel. Today, we have husbands and wives proselyting together as stake missionaries. "It seemed quite proper to the Prophet Joel as he prophesied that not only the sons but the daughters also should prophesy, and that the Lord would pour out his spirit on the daughters of Zion as well as upon the men. And in Acts 21:9, we learn of four virgin daughters of Philip who had prophetic powers. The Lord gave one of his most powerful parables using ten women as the characters and their works as the criterion for their acceptance." "You really are converted to the Relief Society work, Sister Jones," commented the Bishop. "You make us feel that you will give yourself devotedly to the welfare of the sisters of this ward and through them to all the people." ES, Brethren," and she continued, "I'd like to know if I am thinking clearly in this matter. There is the 'elect lady' spoken of in the Second Epistle of John. If there was not a Relief Society organization, at least this sounds like Relief Society work. He speaks to the 'elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth.... I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth." Then he repledges them to continue walk- 152 ing after his commandments. I wondered who was an 'elect lady,' Brethren, until I read what the Prophet Joseph gave in clarification. He wrote: I gave much instruction, read in the New Testament, and Book of Doctrine and Covenants, concerning the Elect Lady, and showed that the elect meant to be elected to a certain work, &c., and that the revelation was then fulfilled by Sister Emma's election to the Presidency of the Society, she having previously been ordained to expound the Scriptures (D. H. C., IV, pp. 552-553). As the bishopric gave her instructions, they had explained her part in the welfare work of the Church, and she asked again: "Don't you think they had women to assist in the distribution of relief assistance in the days of the early Church, Brethren? I read where they had all things in common and none suffered. Is it not likely that there were sisters there also to help? I learn that as the Church grew and the Grecian brethren were much occupied with Church service, even to the neglect of their families, they and others of the saints complained and, as a result a conference was called, as the result of which seven holy, active, and wise men were called especially to look after the temporal service. The scripture does not say they were to do the work, but speaks of them as men 'whom we may appoint over this business.' Surely the Priesthood would organize and direct it, but, Brethren, do you think that men could properly look after all the needs of the multitude including the wants of children and women?" The bishopric chuckled a_ little and one said, "Now, Sister Jones, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 we know full well that when there is hard and specialized work of that kind to do, the sisters do it." GISTER Jones was quite serious and asked: "Don't you think that there must have been women to investigate needs, to look after women and children and widows in their affliction, and, if so, don't you think they could do it better if organized? It wouldn't matter much what the name was but 'Relief Society' is a good name. And James says: Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction... (James 1:27). - "Now, don't you think that the sisters would naturally be employed to do much of that? James again says: What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? (James 2:14-16). "TIsn't this the work of the sisters also?" "We're interested, Sister Jones. Go on," the bishopric said as they relaxed a bit in their chairs. She continued: "Then, there is the case of the lovely lady 'Tabitha, one of the disciples who lived at Joppa, which seems to have been a stronghold for the faith. Perhaps there was a strong branch there. And there were groups also at nearby Saron and RELIEF SOCIETIES IN PRIMITIVE TIMES? Lydda (Acts 9). 'Tabitha was also called Dorcas, and she was known for her 'good works and almsdeeds which she did.' 'The disciples at Joppa were mourning deeply when the sweet, public-spirited woman passed away. 'They prepared the body for burial by washing and laid it out in state in an upper room. 'There was much weeping while two messengers hurried to Lydda to induce the great apostle Peter to come to them. When Peter came, he went alone into the death chamber, knelt, and prayed and by his Priesthood said to Dorcas, "labitha, arise.' She opened her eyes, sat up, took the outstretched hand of the Church leader, and was presented by him to all the saints. 'They were awe-stricken. Now, Brethren, this woman was no ordinary person. She was known to all as a public figure. She was benevolent. She made clothes, for with great sorrow they had laid out before Peter 'the coats and garments which Dorcas made.' The joy was universal when she was returned to them. Sé BRETHREN, there must have been many women among the disciples at Joppa, and wouldn't they have been organized? And doesn't this incident reveal Relief Society work?" "You've been thinking about and preparing for your work a great deal, Sister Jones, since you were called. We commend you for your devotion." "Yes, Brethren, I am eager to serve well. In order to do so I want to learn all I can about the work. Of course, I could be wrong," continued the new woman leader. "But 153 it sounds to me as if the apostle Peter might have been addressing a Relief Society conference or perhaps a quarterly conference, when he said: Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the WIVES; While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear. Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel; But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. For after this manner in the old time the holy women also, who trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands: Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose daughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement (I Peter 3:1-6). "Am I completely wrong, Brethren?" asked the Relief Society President. "Have I speculated too much?" "Your observations have been most interesting, Sister Jones," Bishop Smith answered. "I do not know if the early Church had a Relief Society, but I am sure that it needed one. I read the objectives of the organization as mentioned by the Prophet Joseph as he organized the first group in this dispensation as a call to all women to be chaste, pure, and virtuous; righteous but not self-righteous; to be tolerant, forbearing and forgiving even to 154 the 4goth time; devotion, but not a zeal running to fanaticism. 'The Prophet says to women to be still, be prudent, repent, reform, put a double watch over the tongue, an unruly member which oppresses, injures, and destroys. "The women of the association formed by the Prophet were to bring the guilty to repentance but never to repeat even truthful guilt in the open where it could hurt. They were to 'rather spare ten iniquitous among you, than condemn one innocent one." They should be full of tenderness, kindness, sympathy, and let their mercy run hand in hand with reproof; to 'feed the sheep, and not destroy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 them' and save souls, bringing them unto Christ (D. H. C. V, 19 ff.). And if the organization was to function as it seems to have done, there must have been auxiliary organizations to assist the brethren to carry on the work. Whether there were formal organizations of sisters or not, undoubtedly they were called and taught to do the work now given Relief Society sisters. The Bishop blessed Sister Jones for her devotion and interest. "We appreciate your willingness to serve, Sister Jones. We predict a brilliant leadership from you and much progress with the organization while you are in leadership." _< Let Shere Be Silence Miranda Snow Walton Let earth be silent, let the trumpet die; The screaming chaos of the highways rend The ether; from above the jarring cry Of roaring jets and sonic booms descend. The raucous coughing of deep-throated mills Merges with divers engines' droning beat, Clamor invades the cities, blasts the hills; Let mighty silence walk with quiet feet. Confusion rules the council-halls of state, Each nation's agent shouting to be heard; The babble of the blatant potentate Strangles the wiser statesman's quiet word. Oh, world, confused and sick, just for this day Let sacred stillness surge within your breast; Let manmade eagles fold their wings in rest. Let quiet meditation bring the peace you seek, For God is in his holy temple and would speak. Jn Mlemoriam CL Som, & Whe Kas (October 29, 1875—January 15, 1958) Elder Clifford E. Young Assistant to the Council of the Twelve McKAY ELDER THOMAS E. N the passing of Elder Thomas E. McKay, one of the Assistants to the Quorum of the Twelve, the Church has lost a valiant witness of the truth, and the State a valued, loyal citizen. Brother McKay was the son of David and Jeannette Evans McKay and was born in Huntsville, Utah, October 29, 1875. His parents were converts to the Church, his father having come from Scotland, his mother from Wales. He was a brother of our beloved President David O. McKay and between these two there was an affectionate bond comparable to that of Jonathan and David of old. Brother McKay often paid affectionate tribute to his parents. 'They were pioneers in the Ogden Valley and stalwarts in the Church. The son, Thomas, having come from such excellent parents reflected throughout his life their integrity and strength of character. He served as a missionary, stake president, twice President of the Swiss-German Mission, and acting president of the European Mission during World War II. At the April Conference in 1941, he was called to be one of the Assistants to the Quorum of the Twelve. In his ministry throughout the Church, Brother McKay was loved and respected by all who had the privilege of knowing him and feeling a love and confidence in the work of the Lord which he reflected in his everyday life. He was firm in his counsel for the truth, but had a kindly manner so that the most sensitive took no exceptions to his reproofs. He was one who reproved with sharpness when moved upon by the Holy Ghost, then showed forth an increase of love toward him whom he had perchance reproved. His faithfulness was stronger than the cords of death, and he was full of charity towards all men. In very deed virtue garnished his thoughts unceasingly. (See D&C 121:43, 45.) Brother McKay never spoke unPage 155 156 kindly of anyone. He was strong in his convictions, religiously and politically, but withal, did not question the motives of those who did not agree with him. In his public service integrity was his watchword, always loyal and true to the trust the people imposed in him. He gave long and faihful service to the State. To his family he was a loving, devoted husband and father. His wife and children were constantly in his thoughts. His love and devotion to Sister McKay will ever be a source of inspiration to all who were fortunate enough to come in the intimacy of his family circle. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Jesus taught us not only the way of life—the abundant life, with all the virtues that make life so sweet, but also the way of death; that death is not the end, but the beginning of a new life; that there is in reality no death of the spirit; that we take up over there, "behind the veil," where we leave off here. I pay loving tribute to this great man. We who knew Brother McKay will miss him, but his life, his integrity, his devotion to every trust will ever be a source of inspiration to all of us. In his passing there was released from this life a great soul. Tn tind Woodland Cathedral Caroline Eyring Miner White aspen pillars push against the sky, And emerald laces make a shady bower Against the fiery dome of heaven, that high Above shows blue and gold like summer flower Sun-drenched. I tread on carpet green and lush And kneel where golden sunlight hallows all. My altar is a rock where moss lies plush. Here zephyrs whisper and here sweet birds call In heavenly choir. This music, soft and sweet As tolling church bells in the setting sun, Comforts my weary soul and makes complete A symphony with singing brook. Then One To whom I pray here in this woodland fair Comes whispering peace in answer to my prayer. Shird Prize Story Annual Relicf Society Short Story Contest Wee Pine Knot Edna H. Day ARGARET Davenport stooped to retrieve the morning paper from the front steps where the boy had flung it, and carried it into the kitchen. Jim was finishing the last of his hot cakes. It would soon be time for him to leave for the law office where he worked and hoped someday to be a partner. "Want to see it for a minute?" she asked. "You have time." Jim looked at the headlines, turned to the sports for a brief perusal, and then glanced quickly at the ever-growing columns of Houses for Sale. It had become a game with them, a_ just-for-fun morning diversion. "Listen to this one," he said, turning the paper inside-out and folding it so he could see it more easily. 'Then he read a new one, beginning, For Sale, by Owner. "Sounds like a honey.' He glanced expectantly at Margaret, who was clearing the table and stacking the dishes in the sink. "Has a dishwasher, too." "And a counter-top stove, and a wall-oven, and all the latest gadgets. Let's buy it." She always played the game, but lately her tone had been a bit wishful. The home which they were buying was a remodeled older house. It was adequate for their present needs, she supposed, but it was anyEDNA H. DAY thing but glamorous. Not like Jack's and Phil's, certainly, nor Bob's and Jean's new split-level, nor the ranch-type beauty which Jim's boss had just built in the exclusive Lloyd Park addition. "['m afraid we made a mistake when we bought an old house, Mrs. Davenport," he said, "but it looks as though we're stuck with it." 'This, too, was a part of the game. "See you tonight," he said, as he drew her close and planted a kiss on her soft lips. Jim could still thrill her with his parting embrace six years after their honeymoon. He never gave her a quick peck directPage 157 158 ed somewhere near her mouth in the preoccupied fashion of some husbands. His parting caress was always the same sweet ceremony it had been in the beginning. "Bye, daddy," chorused the fouryear-old twins, Jane and Jamie, standing, pajama-clad, in the door of their room. "See you," Jim called, as he dashed for the bus, just rounding the corner. "Come get your breakfast, you two," Margaret called. "And then out to your sandbox. I have to wash." She couldn't help thinking how nice it would be to toss the clothes into an automatic washer and go on with her work. Drying clothes in the lovely old back yard wasn't too bad in the summer, but a drier, too,' would be a mighty handy appliance in the wintertime. MARGARET gathered clean sheets from the cupboard in the hall. Its shelves were unhandy, and the knobs were old-fashioned. She contrasted it with the plain beauty of the ones in the Long's new place which had doors concealed in the lovely wood paneling. She carried two pairs of sheets into the children's room and _proceeded to make their twin beds. It won't be long, she thought, until another bedroom will be a must. Her washing out of the way, Margaret cleaned the bright living room. It was pleasant and comfortable, but she couldn't help thinking that wall-to-wall carpeting would be much easier to clean than the rug surrounded by polished floor, and she had always wanted a fireplace. I've really got off to a bad start. I suppose we should stop our silly game, she thought ruefully. Both RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 of us are beginning to look at this place with a jaundiced eye. Determinedly she put extravagant thoughts out of her mind for the remainder of the day. "Come, get ready for dinner," Margaret called to Jamie and Jane, playing in their plastic wading pool. "Daddy will be here any minute now. But when Jim came he was not alone. "Met Dell as I was leaving the office, and we decided to take a look at our place and see what he thinks he could sell it for. Not that we want to sell it, Dell understands that," he added somewhat sheepishly, "but it's nice to know how much it is worth if we ever did want to sell it." While dinner became cold, she and Dell and Jim toured the place. Nice yard, good location, Dell agreed, but these old houses were a pain-in-the-neck when it came to selling them, unless, of course you could find someone who preferred that sort of place. Certainly it wouldn't ever increase in value with all the new building going on in town. Dell drove off, while the Davenports fed their hungry little ones and put them to bed, and then ate their belated meal. "It's a good thing our vacation starts Monday," Jim said, as they prepared for bed. "Window shopping for houses is getting beyond a joke." Margaret agreed that they were playing with fire, but it had been fun. She had had a long day, and was soon asleep, but Jim lay staring at the moon as it peered at him through the branches of the huge old elm outside the window. If they should ever move, he surely WEE PINE KNOT would miss that old tree. But it would be great to have a rumpus room with a fireplace, and a terrace for summer entertaining, if a fellow could afford to entertain when he had a terrace. HE phone rang early the next morning. It was Dell. "How about looking at a place or two I have listed, and how would tonight suit you?" he wanted to know. "Won't cost you a cent to look," he urged. "Want to?" Jim asked Margaret, who was setting the table. "Want to what?" "Want to go with Dell to see a couple of new listings he just acquired?" Margaret's black eyes sparkled. She loved to look at new houses. "What can we lose?" she said. She was fairly bubbling when they returned home. "I didn't want to rave about the split-level house in front of Dell, but wasn't it wonderful? If I had built it myself I couldn't have been more pleased. Not too big, and yet plenty of room. It's the only split-level I've ever fallen in love with. Only seven steps down to the playroom, only five up to the bath and three bedrooms. Kitchen, living room, dinette, utility room, and bath on the main floor; walled terrace, partly beamed and partly covered for rain or shine; fireplace in both the living room and play room. Did you ever see a play room with an outside entrance before, Jim?" "T haven't seen a lot of features that house has. I surely like it, too! Built up on that little knoll, overlooking the houses below, it was " perfect! 159 "Darling, do you think we could consider buying it?" "'Fraid not, honey," Jim said. "We can hardly keep our heads above water now. Even if we could sell this place right away, which Dell doubts, the price of the splitlevel is three times what this one cost, and our equity would scarcely cover the down payment. But we'll do some figuring if you want to." A few nights later Dell called to ask if he might bring a retired couple to see their place. It seemed to be just what his customers wanted. "Oh, but Dell," Margaret said, in panic, "we really didn't list our place. We don't know yet if we want to sell." "Well, I don't want to stampede you into anything. 'Think it over." The phone rang again. This time it was Bob inviting them over to have charcoal fried hamburgers with him and Phil. "Sorry it isn't steak," Bob said, "but we've forgotten what a sitloin tastes like since we saddled ourselves with this darn house. We didn't know when we were well off. If you want to learn thirty ways to cook hamburger, just buy yourself one of these new homes and you'll...." "Whoa! Whoa!" interrupted Jim, "that's just what we have been thinking we might do." "Well, don't—take it from me. How soon can you come over?" "Can't make it tonight, Bob. We have to get ready for our vacation in the morning." "Vacation! What's that? It's been so long since we had one that I didn't know they existed any more." Bob sounded bitter. Jim's face was sober as he hung up the phone. 160 Eleven o'clock came before Jim and Margaret finished loading the car. "Surely wish we had a new station wagon," Jim said, "even if we are leaving the twins with mother, this car is bulging." "T know, but it's cold in the pines, and heavy clothes are a must. And we have to take our camp outfit. We may not be able to find a cabin. We should have made reservations." O Vacancy read the sign on the office at the lodge where they had planned to stay. "Wouldn't you know it?" Margaret was tired after their long drive, and the thought of camping out had lost its charm. "Tl ask if there might be a cancellation later." Jim's long legs were slightly cramped as he pulled them out from under the wheel. "Looks like we're in luck, after all." He emerged from the office, jangling a bunch of keys. "No cabin, but an old couple just listed a private home for rent. No electric lights, but there's a gas lantern. No water in the house, but there's a pump in the yard.": "No shower?" "Nope. Tub in the shed." Margaret groaned. "Oh, well, I bathed in one when I was a kid." "All babies do," said Jim. "Not as a baby. 'Teenager. You forget I never learned city ways until I went to college." Jim laughed. 'his vacation was going to be fun! "Oh! How adorable!" Margaret exclaimed as she caught sight of the little cabin set in the midst of an area of more pretentious summer cottages. All were constructed of peeled and varnished logs, but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 their cabin looked like a terrier among mastiffs. Wee Pine Knot, she read the name, which had been cut out of wood in block letters and glued to a green board. "And doesn't it look like one, nestling there among those tall lodge pines? I know I'm going to love it." The stoop was covered with a piece of carpet, to keep the deep black loam from tracking into the cabin, and as the door swung open Margaret tried to see everything at once. The walls were rough-hewn, the small windows were curtained, the floor was covered with a print linoleum. A couch, spread with a patchwork quilt, stood at the side of the room. A_ wood-burning heater occupied one corner, and a round table and several chairs were in another, while behind the door was a steel cot which could be made into a double bed. "Cabin sleeps eight," the man said. "lake your choice of the accommodations, lady." He seized her and whirled her around the room. "But where...?" 'Then Jim caught sight of the ladder leaning against the wall, and the loft made of logs overhead. Eager to explore, they scurried up the ladder and found two more double cots. A tanned deer-hide rug lay on the floor. The kitchen contained a range, a bench for the water bucket, and a basin, an old-fashioned kitchen cabinet, a homemade pine table, more chairs, and an old-fashioned ice box. Everything shone from much polishing. "Look at the old chopping knife for making salad." Margaret touched the sharp edges with her WEE PINE KNOT finger. "I haven't seen one of those since grandma discarded hers when we bought a food chopper for iter." "Let's unpack." Jim caught her hand and pulled her along. "If you know anything about — gasoline lanterns, you know we'd better get settled before dark." ISHING, hiking, bird-watching, boating, the ten days passed on fleeting wings. Once they went dining and dancing at the resort hotel nearby, and one afternoon when it rained they stayed in the cabin and read Shakespeare from one of the books on the well-stocked shelf. "Only four days more," Jim said. "If you'll give me a list, I'll drive down to the store and get a few things to last us until we leave." He had just driven out of the yard when Margaret was astonished to see a little old woman coming down the path to the door. They hadn't had a single caller during their entire stay. The visitor smiled as Margaret opened the screen to admit her. "I hope I'm not intruding. My name is Sarah Wakley. I came to get my old friends, here." She waved her hand at the books on the shelf. "My daughter told me I had better not leave them in a rented cabin; some lazy tenants might make a fire with them some cold night. However, I see that they have been in good hands." "Thank you,' Margaret _ said, simply. "We have enjoyed living in your lovely summer home." "Oh, this isn't our summer home. We live here the year around. It's the only home my husband and I have." 161 "You live here in the winter?" marveled Margaret. "Isn't it cold?" "Yes, indeed, twenty below zero, and sometimes the snow piles up to the window ledges. However, the road is always plowed out; we have a post office here, and the highway goes through to Wyoming. It isn't a palace, but we are content. 'That's why we call it "Wee Pine Knot." "How stupid of me!" Margaret exclaimed. " "Wee Pine Knot' also means 'We Pine Not.' What a delightful pun!" Mrs. Wakley chuckled. "They say a pun is the lowest form of humor, but they also say that Shakespeare was the soul of wit, and he was a punster." "We feel very lucky to have had the privilege of renting your home, Mrs. Wakley." "You are the first to occupy it. We haven't rented it before, but my husband had to have an operation for cataracts on his eyes. He's in the hospital now. He built the cabin or we couldn't have had it, but he hasn't been able to work for a year or so. Fortunately, we had money sufficient for our needs until this operation came up." "MONEY sufficient for our "~ "needs" — that phrase seemed to ring a bell in Margaret's memory, but she couldn't for the life of her remember where she had heard it before. "We will be going home in a few days now," Margaret said. "I hate to leave this delightful place." "Where is home?" "We live at 152 Jackson Street in Fall River." Mrs. Wakley gave a startled gasp. "That was our old home," she said. 162 "We lost it during the depression. We had a home that would have done for us very well, but we wanted something better. We would have made it, too, if all the breaks had come our way. We learned that most people can't expect all the breaks, and should never spread themselves too thin. We _ also learned to want what we have, even if we did have to learn the hard way." "T'm_ terribly sorry," Margaret said. "I feel like an interloper." "Not at all. The house has been sold several times since we had to give it up. We knew better, really. Our Church had cautioned all its people to get out of debt and stay out, but we wouldn't listen. People must learn for themselves, it seems." "Yes, so it seems," Margaret agreed. Jim returned from the store and met their charming guest. He urged her to permit them to take the books to town for her, since she had come on the bus and it would be hard for her to get them home. "That way, we won't lose track of you," he said, with his friendly smile. - FOUR days later, they pulled into the driveway of their own home. "Surely good to be here," Jim said, as he unlocked the door, walked to the refrigerator, and took out a bottle of pop. "Will there be * % % RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 time for me to get a bath, with honest-to-goodness hot water out of a tap before we pick up the kids?" "Go ahead. I want one, too. Surely is good to be home, is right." As Margaret started to the basement to get some meat and vegetables for dinner out of the deepfreeze, the telephone rang sharply. Jim answered, and Margaret paused to hear who could be calling them the minute they arrived. "This is Dell. I wondered if you were home. How was the trip?" "Wonderful," Jim said, and waited. "Say, how about bringing that couple over to see your place? They're still interested in it." "Okay," said Jim "in a year or two. This place never looked so good to me in all my life." Margaret smiled as she went on to the basement, for she guessed who was calling. Jim unloaded the car while she started supper. Then they were ready to go for the twins. Surely would be good to see them, they agreed, as they reached the door. Then Jim shut it again, drew her into his arms and said, "How about making this our 'Wee Pine Knot' home until we can be pretty sure of being able to pay for a better one and still go on vacations?" Margaret's kiss was enough. % * answer Edna H. Day, Idaho Falls, Idaho, tells us that ""Wee Pine Knot" is her first published short story. "I am a member of the Idaho Writers League and have won prizes for articles and verse in the State contests, and have had about a dozen poems published. Belonging to a writers' group has helped me in my literary efforts, and my extension course in creative writing from Brigham Young University has stimulated my interest. Also very helpful is the encouragement which my family gives me. My husband is William F. Day, and we have four children and seven grandchildren. 'Two of our children have served in the Uruguayan Mission. My husband and I are converts to this wonderful Church and we have both held many positions in it. Currently, I am the literature class leader in the Idaho Falls Third Ward Relief Society." Ward Linton HIBISCUS, WHITE, WITH ROSE-RED CENTERS — Another Spring Dorothy J. Roberts As leaves of autumn nurture another spring, So may tears that fall upon our darkened days. As now there is moss, a green and tender ring Circling the flowing well; the fragrant ways Of the south-born wind and a swelling bud On every leaf-node, filled with promising; As now gray Is gone, the white and blue restored To the ceiling of the land; the line of snow Retreating up the mountain slopes; the stored Tubers sending up their final strength in slow Inquiring shoots, so may the still-believing heart Stirred within, become, of spring, a part. Page 163 She Sahitian Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE Tahitian Mission has a romantic and interesting history. It is one of the oldest missions in the Church, having been founded in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith. In 1843, at Nauvoo, the Prophet called four men, Noah Rogers, Addison Pratt, Benjamin F. Grouard, and Knowlton F. Hanks, to open a mission for the Church in the Sandwich (Hawaiian) Islands. Elder Pratt was somewhat acquainted with the Islands and had learned a little of the native language when he had visited there in 1822, in the days when he was a sailor aboard a whaling vessel. The four elders left Nauvoo on June 1, 1843 and traveled eastward to the Atlantic Coast. At New Bedford, Massachusetts, on October 9, 1843, they boarded a sailing vessel bound for the South Pacific. While still on the Atlantic Ocean, about a month after leaving New Bedford, Elder Hanks died and was buried at sea. The three remaining elders continued their journey and, in May 1844, landed on the Island of Tubuai of the Photograph cubTinged Dorothy P. Hr tensen ISLAND GROUP NEAR SEASIDE LAGOON Page 164 THE TAHITIAN MISSION 165 Studio Mackenzie. Photograph submitted by Larson Caldwell. COASTAL VILLAGE, TAHITI Society group. Elder Pratt was overjoyed to learn that the natives partly understood the Hawaiian language. Converts were made and, in July 1844, Elder Pratt organized on Tubuai, the first branch of the Church in the South Pacific. In the meantime, Elders Grouard and Rogers had begun the work of proselyting on the island of 'Tahiti, where they met with success and organized a branch of the Church. Subsequently, Elders Pratt and Grouard labored on the Tuamotu group of islands, where they baptized more than 2,000 converts. Other elders came to assist the first missionaries, and the work continued to grow until 1853, when all the American missionaries were banished from the Society Islands by the local French government. It was not until 1892 that the field was opened again, with the arrival of two elders from Utah, Joseph W. Dameron and William A. Seegmiller. The work of proselyting has continued since that time. At the end of. November 1957 there were 2,274 members of the Church in the Tahitian Mission, located in eighteen branches. Ellis V. Christensen is the mission president. Ten Relief Society organizations, with 189 members, were reported in December 1956. Dorothy P. Christensen presides over the Tahitian Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Ocean Vista, Tahiti," was submitted by Elder Larson Caldwell, former acting president of the Tahitian Mission. See also "Recipes From the Tahitian Mission," by Dorothy P. Christensen, page 181. Inherit the Earth Hene H. Kingsbury HEY said the land was free, there in Southern Utah, 160 acres of it, no charge — but she paid for it on foot for 3600 miles, taken in two-mile stretches, one at sunset, one at dawn — six months a year for five years. She paid for it by sleeping there goo nights, alone. She built on its eastern edge, near the lane, a one-roomed log house, mud-chinked, one-windowed, onedoored. She did not furnish this shelter with fireplace, table, or chairs. No need for such crumbs of comfort — this roadstead was but for sleeping. One narrow bunk of cedar posts, with rope-woven springs, patched quilts over straw tick; these were her sole concessions to soothe a worn body. While the valley lay becalmed in darkness, she dozed full length and_ gathered strength for tomorrow's labor. And because this was a summer shelter, she had not considered it concern enough to trade alfalfa or cheese for window glass. Instead, a thin, white cloth dipped in hot tallow and tacked directly to the logs let in the light and kept out the wind. The door originally covered a granary opening, but she recruited it for five years, just time enough to accomplish her purpose. In winter, pine slabs were nailed over the small apertures in the walls and the sad little hut was left to buffetings of rain, hail, and sleet. In spring, with the earliest possible chance of wading through mud to its door, these boards were removed Page 166 from the cabin and shunted under the bunk, there to await the planned purpose when the next six months had rolled by. The door faced east, in the approved Navajo fashion, though quite by coincidence; for she was a Welsh gentlewoman. But easterly, she could look up a canyon slashed from iron red hills. Or, at least, follow the course of its inconsequential stream to the first turn. That eastern door was her only yielding to leisure in the whole determined project. Women and children were forbidden to set foot in that canyon. Only armed men, stalking beside logging wagons, ever entered its portals. Indians, in retreat from emigrant trains, claimed its water, its wood, its protecting precipices. But, she thought, if the cabin door faces that way I can at least dream of going up. In flood season the turbulent, treacherous waters of Little Creek » belittled man's strength to subdue it. 'Then it was that the wash became more deeply cut and the boulders moved majestically a few more feet down canyon. Little Salt Lake on the western edge of the valley gratefully received the roily moisture; if there was too much, some leaked over its shallow banks. It glistened as the sun hid behind the Gap and left for the great desert beyond. In stark contrast, at other seasons, came the falling of the water, even lower in the wash, now singing in the carrot-colored sand long before INHERIT THE EARTH reaching the little lake. White children, as they viewed the wash, soon followed the timeless example of the Navajo and Ute children, who never, never even walked through the cool, shady, deep, and sandy bottoms of the wash. It was a fearsome sight, in flash flood, that wall of liquid adobe, solid in its advancing perpendicular front, held in position as by a transparent veil. The ejected water on its descent was the remembered warning to shun the depths of the wash even without a cloud in the sky! HIS, then, was the setting for a solitary vigil whose benefits reached through seventy seasons of harvest: the paint-brush colored hills, the wash to the north, the door to the east, patched quilt on the bunk — these made tolerable a peculiar phase of living prescribed by law. There were other courses to follow, but this woman simply could not bring herself to accept the ideas. For instance, four claimants occasionally built a cabin and dug a ditch for water and cultivated the soil. 'Their cabin was placed so each corner rested on a corner of a quarter section of land. At great intervals an entry man slept in the communal cabin. 'The homesteads were really homelands, they said, and the owners who lived in the nearby communities had a right to do as they pleased. Other arrangements were often agreed upon. One man filed on a claim for several neighbors, proved up on it, then for a fee, gave the others their shares. Two difficulties stood in the way of this widowed homesteader from 167 participating in either plan. First, she did not consider these courses quite right. If the law said you file on it, it didn't mean mass filing, and if a cabin was occupied, it should be consistently inhabited. For her climate, the spring and summer half of the year were less difficult. Second, just where could she possibly get ten dollars a year for five years to pay another claimant for seeing to details of which she was quite capable? 'The ten dollars to pay the government agent for recording her homestead was a major financial burden as it was. In any case, her little boys would help her make the improvements. During the first three years the soil must be cleared of sage, must be under cultivation with some variety of crops, and a pole and post fence four and a half feet high built to protect those crops from loose amimals, Her course, then, was to have her own cabin, sleep in it by herself, and manage somehow to raise the money for the filing fee. Independence and perseverance seldom have a parallel. Of the improvements, said the law, a fence came first. Have you seen a giant sage whose trunk and roots seemed first cousin to the cedar? One finds it in the Southwest. An area of maturing is reached where the size of one has diminished to meet the stubborn growth of the other. And when they unite to become a fence, a most remarkable resemblance occurs. 'The horizontal cedar logs interlocked with their fellows down the line, and held securely at their joining by posts set deep in the earth, these make a homesteader's 168 fence. They are fortified in their marking of boundaries by the everencroaching sage. What pioneer boy has not spent his strength to help clear the land of sage and wondered at its determined grasp of the earth with powerful hold. Then, as the seasons brought him wisdom, he saw new sage advance on his land, stop its march at his pole fence and, in the protective cover, stay its course and remain to defend the fields. From that point on, the living sage was one with hewn posts and poles. 'They became mutually supporting to protect the tilled and seeded soil. 'The railsage fence became part of the pioneer picture; quite in harmony as a landmark for generations. And if the soil had an Indian paint-brush tint, as for the widowed homesteader, the artistry of mother nature splashed her pale pinks higher and higher through the growing branches of the sage and the peeling bark of the posts. A tinge of Navajo sandstone blended the whole into the valley's vermilion. In that water-color study of sage, cedar, and adobe tints, the details became so stained by this dye that a pink hue marked the color of the colony; a study in blended canyon coral. (Obviously, the name of the settlement should have been Red Creek, in American — which it was... Or Paragonah, in Indian — which it was. ) HIS fence, then, was the improvement the first year. As for living on the acres to fulfill the law, she had early considered bringing one of her half-dozen children each night to share the hours. But the unrest brought by deciding RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 which one, allotting the duties at home, and the general reluctance of little ones to walk two miles, altogether proved not worth the arrangement. That first early spring, she had driven a cart out to the hut, but both horse and cart needed more attention than she had strength to - spend. The wheels, the shoes, the road, the roving animal—elusive to catch and perversive to harness— these details she could not tolerate in this dusk-to-dawn schedule. Solitary, the schedule became; neither chick nor child, cart nor horse. She had depended on shank's ponies before — a thousand miles that trek had been — and she could summon them for this part of her plan. Thus, on foot, a wilderness wanderer, kithless for hours, she got the quarter section free! Two things bothered this homesteader — a coral breast pin, and little Sam. One could not say her course was changed by either, but they were a constant concern nevertheless. We'll start with Sammie, her youngest, aged five. He was sickly, or rather on the frail side, and this leaving him every night for six months was perhaps her biggest sacrifice for free land. The older children were patient and loving to him, and did all she asked of them. The thirteen-yearold girl taught herself to sleep so lightly that she could arise and cover little Sammie, always a_ restless sleeper. Half awake, shivering in summer's midnight cool, she would hasten to tuck his quilt about him lest both of them become too wide awake to snuggle back to sleep. Early in the game, to save getting INHERIT THE EARTH up, she placed his trundle bed next to her big bed. A portion of the small bed she pushed under the side of her own. Or rather, the trundle was only two-thirds pulled out into the room. In this manner, by lying on her stomach and dropping her outside arm over the edge of her mattress, she could grasp Sam's quilt, pat his head, and both would be content. The homesteader knew of this arrangement on her daughter's part. It was so cozy and comforting to both children that they continued the plan on into the second six months when the mother was at home all night to take the watch care, UT this was not the worst worry about little Sam. 'The unrest came when he keenly yearned for his mother and cried after her as she left for the log house each sundown. He would stand in the doorway and call and cry and plead and stretch out his arms and wipe his tears with his sleeve. His mother would come back again and again to comfort him, more firmly each trip, more inwardly impatient to start out before dusk set itself too deeply. How torn in resolution she was to give up this promise of free earth and stay with little Sam forever. Often he stealthily followed her, hiding first behind the porch posts, lurking near the lilac bushes, and finally, gaining the gate. While her back was turned he would climb over the gate and crouch behind some bushes at the lot's corner. Some evenings he contrived to get as far as the giant sage which lined the hollow next north, and, occa- 169 sionally, sprinted over the bridge and made it to the cottonwoods lining the ditch bank. If he was not caught at these last hazards, he sneaked to the pole fence which guarded the nearest fields and, by climbing under, would shadow his mother as she thoughtfully trod the road. But few were the times he got this far undetected. Sammie well believed his mother had eyes in the back of her head, so sharply did she discern him trailing her. Upon discovering him, she would vary her words in despair, impatience, weary resignation, or by loving encirclement of arms. After a few trials of letting him go all the way, she knew no exceptions could be made. No Sammie, no Jane, no Hebe; just by herself, solitarily plodding. But persistently little Sammie would follow, sometimes quietly, more often calling, "Mother, take me with you!" 'Then hand in hand they would turn back home. She would tuck him in bed, prayerfully. She would turn down the lane, resolutely. "Mother, Mother, take me with you," his voice would come back again and again. But the mother had turned into the house. Unforgotten was this call across half the world. But such remembrance neither slowed her step nor turned her back from a resolution to smooth the way for little Sam. Rather, it became as a spur. Perhaps just once, when two thousand miles had been paced to the bunk in the lucern field, she faltered. It was the day Hebe took the wagon for a cord of wood up Little Creek. 'The top logs rolled 170 off the load and pinned him to a boulder, and then the team trotted on down the canyon and _ finally came home without the lad. 'That was the crisis in a series of mishaps. The horses, patient at the bars, gave no clue as to the destiny of the youthful logger. The homesteader threw a shawl over her head, cinched a light saddle around the belly of Pockets, and whipped her up the slopes to the hills, on over Billy's Hill, and was prepared to race clear to Panguitch. This flight, a flash flood in reverse, has had few equals. By the time the mother pried the logs off her boy, the mounted posse from town swept up the draw, and wondered at a mother in the strength of extremity! The hopeful flock said to themselves, this is the night Mother will stay home! But how they misjudged their woman! In fact, her step seemed more elastic than for months. Sam's cries were silenced by a serene light in her eyes. She whispered to him, "I never thought I'd ever get up Little Creek! And I wasn't even afraid!" - ANP what is the coral breast pin doing in the homestead vigil? As we said in the beginning, there were two things that worried her from her thirty-fifth to fortieth year. Sammie was one, and a piece of royal jewelry was the other. The point was, the pin no longer was anyone's property, and that was what harassed her. It was lost. It was lost down the lane to the log house. This novelty was the only keepsake she ever owned that was not "hard come by." It was not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 even a gift — but had fallen like a bird from heaven at her feet. It had happened at the only parade she had ever watched. At fourteen, in Wales, she once journeyed from Merthyr to Cardiff to see the Prince of Wales go by! That is, they felt duty bound to see him; but it was his astonishing mother, — Victoria, who had commanded their attention. 'The coal cart which cartied them down the banks of the river to the sea was quite properly left at the edge of the town, and they had formed a sort of parade of their own Merthyr folks as they entered the stream of converging masses. All to see what a prince and a queen looked like! Viewed on memory's screen, the music was too loud, the throng too large, and the parade too short. Only the soft Welsh songs of her townspeople as they drove home had remained to give peace to her excited heart. For beneath her chin, reposing in the shadows of two pink satin bows, was a coral pin which had dropped to her feet from a carriage in the Queen's parade. She had snatched it quickly, thinking at first it was meant for her; then fearing it was not, all in an instant, she clutched it more tightly. She had waved it on high, ran along shouting for a carriage to stop; but, somehow, one had only soldiers in it, sitting rigidly, eyes unswerving. Some lady for the queen surely would want it. She backed up to where her father was already concerned for her whereabouts. Conscientious to the core, they left name and town at the Government House; but inquiries never came. Finally, her father said, "Wear it, it is yours." INHERIT THE EARTH She did wear it, pink bows and all, until they frayed to thin streamers of silken webs and were left on a large sagebrush as she crossed the Rocky Mountains of North Amenrica. The coral, resting in its gold setting of two carved hands clasping to hold it aloft, was the color of her smiling lips. A dozen years of pleasure had gleamed from its polished surfaces— brides had proudly worn it — a sick child had pinned it on her flannel gown to help her get well — scores of Sunday afternoons had been more genteel for its glistening on linsey-woolsey — then a youth came courting a younger sister. She begged for it, just this once, to look nice on a walk in the moonlight down the lane. It was not on that dress when the walk was over — down the lane. The valiant homesteader, sometimes by moon's gleam, peered at her feet, sort of looking for that coral pin. But only a phantom parade rushed by, only a vague tint of crimson could be observed in the dust... For sometimes Navajo sandstone chipped by flash floods in Little Creek Wash would make one halt and remember coral, and gold, and pink satin bows. THE law coldly, clearly, said: ',.. Person who is of the age 171 of twenty-one years, or who is the head of a family... And has declared his intention to become a citizen of the U. S. To enter on and take possession of 160 acres of any of the public lands not otherwise appropriated, and by cultivating the same for the term of five years, and paying ten dollars, will, upon compliance with these conditions, be entitled to a patent for the same." Finally, the law was satisfied: nearly four thousand miles, - nine hundred nights... And the one hundred sixty acres were hers. Yes, it said so quite legally over the signature of the Governor of the 'Territory. That spot of earth sustained her children through childhood, youth, love. When her youngest, that little Sam, needed cash for an education to go out and make something of himself, she sold a parcel of the beloved land to aid him. He was the fourth son to leave the hearth for greater paths; each sustained by her homestead acquired without cost — or so said the land agent. One spring, from afar came a small package — Sam's name in the upper corner. In it was a coral breast pin, made to order from a childhood memory — carved hands of gold — pink satin bows — all as in a Welsh parade for the Queen. A single line was penned: "Mother, take me with you!" > Clothesline in Spring Helen H. Winn The summering of days is mood returning To know the wind, to open wide the doors. To string bright clothes in a necklace on the morning, To gather them in a diadem of stars. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL Nations" A NEW GRANARY AND HALL: A substantial and commodious granary has recently been erected by the Beaver Relief Society, which will enable them to continue the good work of gathering and storing grain for many years to come without being cramped for storage room. The building is of a beautiful magnesium rock and is about fifty feet long by twenty feet wide and a sixteen foot ceiling, and is divided into two rooms.... Last year the wheat was transferred from the old building, the grist mill and other places where the Society had been under the necessity of storing it, to the new granary, approximately one thousand bushels.... —Mary F. White, Sec. QUEEN MARGHERITA: Queen Margherita of Italy has made herself responsible for the execution of a plan to build an observatory on the summit of Monte Rosa, at a height of 4,560 meters. The work on it has already been begun. The queen, who is an enthusiastic mountaineer, is in the habit of spending several weeks each year at the summit of Monte Rosa. The observatory will be higher than that on Mount Blanc, and the highest in Europe. —News Note THE YOUNGER GENERATION: We must all recognize the importance of the adhesion to any work of those whose powers are fresh and unworn, and whose share of life will probably stretch through the coming years long after the grass grows green over the graves where the holders of the place and power of today will be silent and impotent for further service. There is a charm in the springtime of life that we all feel and own. Especially is this true of public work. 'Tenderly do we regard the young people who seem ready to lend their growing strength to the causes and efforts that we have carried on for long years — to catch up the banner that we feel must drop from our wearied grasp, and who do not fear to at once take their course, though it be up the Hill Difficulty.... —Editorial -THE SOUVENIRS Oftimes have we been welcomed Into your pleasant home, Where rays of lovely sunshine Upon our hearts would come. You've been kind unto the orphan, You've clothed and fed the poor, And for your acts of kindness God bless you evermore. —Nancy Allred AN INTERESTING PARTY: At the elegant residence of Mrs. Priscilla Jennings on Thursday February 10, there was a delightful gathering of old friends and acquaintances.... The presence of Presidents Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Lorenzo Snow gave an inspiration to the party and added greatly to the spiritual enjoyment.... President Woodruff spoke a few minutes.... His words were full of intense feeling and were as a warning voice to all Israel to take heed to counsel and cherish the gospel as revealed in the latter days.... —News Note Page 172 OMEN control well over sixty per cent of the personal expenditures of money in the United States. 'There are 4,455,000 women stockholders in our country. 'They considerably outnumber men _ as shareholders in many large corporations—the United States Steel for one. 'Their holdings are valued at one hundred billion dollars. 'They have another fifty-five billion in savings accounts and _ thirty-three billion in Government bonds. RS. ALMA GOLDSTEIN, a microbiologist with Abbot Laboratories, is credited with the discovery of a new antibiotic, ristocetin, which has proved almost one hundred per cent effective in treating bacterial endocarditis, an infectious inflammation of the heart which almost invariably used to kill its victims. Mrs. Goldstein isolated the drug from a sample of soil which came from the Garden of the Gods in Colorado. Mss MARGARET SPANTON, twenty-eight-year-old woman, does a thriving business selling on commission used industrial equipment—li5o-ton cranes for instance. Finding the desired product may require two or three months' searching in various parts of the country. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon M*-. GUY PERCY TRULOCK, a nationally prominent civic leader, formerly president of the New York City Federation of Women's Clubs, vice-president of the Women's Press Club, and an officer and director of many civic and community organizations, holds the important office of Comics Code Administrator. She has power to exercise independent judgment, and with a staff of reviewers, she studies and passes upon all reading and pictorial matter, including advertisements, intended for publication in all the comic magazines published by the Comics Magazine Association of America. 'The Code completely bans all "horror" and "terror" comics and all materials which may be in any manner immoral, objectionable, or in poor taste. Ninety per cent of the publishers of "Comic" magazines are members of the Association. UILIETTA SIMIONATO, Italian mezzo singer, made her New York debut in the Town Hall in October 1957 in Anna Bolena by Donizetti. Her performance was praised by music critics, and Miss Simionato was described as "the best all-around mezzo now active in opera... Possessing both the bright upper range of the soprano and the darker lower register of the mezzo." Page 173 QD EDITORIAL es VOL. 45 March 1958 NO Te Seen, HEN Jesus showed himself to his disciples at the Sea of Tiberias, following his resurrection, the disciples had been fishing through the night. They had caught nothing, but when the morning came Jesus, who stocd on the shore, told them to cast in the net on the right side of the ship. They cast, therefore, and drew the net to land full of fishes. Then Jesus commanded them to bring the fishes they had caught and dine with him.. When they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep (John 21:15-16). Even the second time the Savior said to Simon Peter, "Feed my sheep." This admonition of the Savior to Peter might well be applied to visiting teachers whose calling it is to go forth among the sisters of the Church in their homes and minister to their spiritual and temporal needs. Visiting teaching typifies the concern of Relief Society for the well-being of our Father's children. It is a means whereby we may, in very deed, feed his sheep, not alone those who seek us but those whom we must seek. Page 174 Visiting teaching was born over one hundred fourteen years ago of dire need on the part of the saints living in Nauvoo. People were joining the Church one of a family and two of a city and coming to Nauvoo. Many were lonely and homesick in their new and strange surroundings. The winter was a hard one; there was sickness and poverty among the people. The saints had to keep close together and rely upon one another for spiritual and temporal aid, those who had, giving to those who had not. Visiting teaching was Relief Society's answer to the needs of the people in that trying pioneer day. Today, the circumstances under which Latter-day Saints live have greatly changed; however, the need for visiting teaching has in no way diminished. Human _ nature has not changed, nor have human needs. So confused and disturbed is the world today, and so insecure and frustrated are many people, that one almost wonders if the:. Eed for the service of visiting teacherc is not greater, perhaps, than at any time heretofore. 'There are among us those who have drifted away or grown indifferent to the teachings and ideals of the Church. 'There are those who are discouraged and whose faith is weak. There are those who are longing for a friendly hand and an understanding heart. There are those who are in need of EDITORIAL a guiding word of truth. There are those who are in sorrow; and, although we are living in a day of abundance, there are still those who need to be fed and clothed. Homes today are in jeopardy. Insidious, destructive influences are abroad. Yet this is a day when homes need to be stronger than ever before to give youth the kind of training and faith that will help them to appreciate the purposefulness of life and equip them to meet it with courage and wisdom. It would seem that the times call for a rededication on the part of visiting teachers to the important assignment which is theirs. It is a time when they could well afford to labor with renewed zeal to make the lives of those whom they visit richer, more fruitful and sweet, and to fortify the homes against undesirable and destructive influences. The importance of the work of the visiting teachers today calls upon them to look to themselves, that 175 they may grow in spiritual strength and perception so as to sense needs and have the inspiration to meet them. If there is a kind word that should be spoken, may they speak it. If there is a soul that needs encouragement, may they give it. If there is a temporal need that cannot be met alone, may it be tevealed to them. If there is need for a testimony to be borne, may they bear it. May they bear in mind always that the woman on whom they are calling is, in very deed, their sister and a daughter of our Heavenly Father. 'Therefore, any need, great or small, physical or spiritual, immediate or future, which she may have, is their concern and should enlist their willing helpfulness. Visiting teaching strikes at the very heart of sisterhood. It is an answer of Relief Society to the commandment of our Heavenly Father, "feed my sheep." —B. S. S. <-> A Pink Shawl Mabel Jones Gabbott Knit for me a shaw] of pink, Pale threads and deeper in loop and link, To wear when I am sad. Catch in one stitch a primrose blush, And somewhere the tone of the rose-throated thrush; Oh, let the center mirror the dawn When the day is new and night just gone, And lost the dreams we had. Edge it with white-pink of apple bloom, And touch of peach blossom if there is room, Blend the fringe from the budding rose To the dusky glow that a sunset knows; And I shall walk by the water's brink Warmed by your love and my shawl of pink, And evermore be glad. Wotes. TO THE FIELD Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Tlisston Relief Sociewes for 1057 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed Albuquerque Western States Electa P. Hilton October 27, 1957 Mission Atlanta Southern States Virgie Mae Shuman May 5, 1957 Mission Great Falls Midvale Missoula Monument Park West Murray South North Seattle San Luis Obispo West Central States Mission East Jordan Stake West Central States Mission Monument Park Stake Murray Stake Seattle Stake Santa Barbara Stake Mary Hansen Celeste Millerberg Lillie Cowley Emma S. Longson Grace Utley Luella Bean Janet Maughan May 16, 1957 June 30, 1957 May 16, 1957 October 8, 1957 May 22, 1957 June 1, 1957 September 22, 1957 San Mateo Palo Alto Stake Beryl Warner September 25, 1957 house Virginia Central Atlantic Lucille Blackmon June 30, 1957 States Mission West Orem Orem Stake Ella Lee November 17, 1957 STAKE DISORGANIZED Stake Released President Date Released Moon Lake Anona O. Miles November 10, 1957 REORGANIZATIONS Stakes Released President Appointed President Date Appointed Bear River Cora L. Nielson Vida E. Manning — April 28, 1957 Benson Mabel H. Pond Norma C. Bodily June 30, 1957 Big Horn Helena D. Belnap Pauline Stevens February 10, 1957 Blaine Donna Lou Thorne Louise Price November 15, 1957 Cedar Claire Jones Alberta D. Morris May 12, 1957 Chicago Elizabeth Kaiser Margaret Weaver July 8, 1957 Covina Lucille C. Hales Lyle H. Facer November 10, 1957 Davis Edna R. France Nora C. Duncan June 23, 1957 Duchesne Faye E. Merkley Anona O. Miles November 10, 1957 East Jordan Celeste D. Millerberg = Norma Winn June 30, 1957 East Ogden Belva J. Peterson Mary Stirk March 31, 1957 East Sharon Jane B. Larsen Elizabeth C. April 27, 1957 Hayward Fresno Blanche O. C. Martha B. Richards November 2, 1957 Phillips Garfield Gwen H. Lyman Nelda Willis September 15, 1957 Page 176 Santa Ana Orange County Stake Mariom A. WoodDecember 8, 1957 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stakes Granite Grantsville Highland Humboldt Idaho Falls Juab Juarez Las Vegas Millard Montpelier Mount Jordan Nebo North Pocatello North Sacramento North Sanpete North Weber Nyssa Orange County Orem Panguitch Reno Rexburg Richland San Bernardino San Diego San Joaquin Sharon South Ogden South Summit Spanish Fork Timpanogos Walnut Creek Weber Weiser Missions East German (North) French Gulf States North Central States Northern Mexican Northern States West Central States West Central States Released President Appointed President 177 Date Appointed Elsie North Annie J. Williams Hazcl B. 'Tingey Alicne N. Bloxham Nannah C. Stokes Martha C. Eagar Nilus S. Memmott Myrtle George Faymetta Prows Virginia R. Vaterlaus Minnie R. Ballard Mary W. Kotter Bertha Pieper Edna M. Hill Pearle Winkler Amanda B. Hancock Lynile Buhler Mariom A. Woodhouse Winnie T. Graff Alta Wiltshire Veda F. Moss LuSeba W. Peterson Naomi A. Brimhall Lena Millett Thora Halgren Margaret Marchant Gwen J. Christensen Erma V. Jacobs Vera Dugdale Fern Brockbank Florence Gillman Ellen J. Haddock Pearl Van Dyke Dorothy Zaugg Released President TI'stenna F. Wilson Annie $. Droubay Marjorie Eldredge Margaret I:. Dahl Leone 'T. Homer Mary G. Jensen Fannie B. Hatch Bess Mendenhall Blanche George June R. Shepherd LaVerda O. Lloyd Mable Christensen Ruth Hirschi Lais'S. Fife Louise B. Johansen Gladys P. Wayment Marian Mathewson Alline Hatch Ida S. Cowley Eva N. Dalton Ada Sneddon Olive B. Smart Evelyn Binns Iris Brown Enid Miller Wanda Stebbins Edith C. Bennett Delora R. Hurst Afton H. Marchant Helen H. Hawkins Gertrude M. Richards Elna P. Cook Ione Hurst Afton Anderson Appointed President September 1, 1957 March 28, 1957 May 19, 1957 June g, 1957 June 2, 1957 November 3, 1957 November 24, 1957 August 18, 1957 March 31, 1957 April 21, 1957 January 20, 1957 August 18, 1957 June 5, 1957 January 10, 1957 September 1, 1957 September 28, 1957 December 8, 1957 November 24, 1957 November 17, 1957 June 23, 1957 March 9, 1957 August 18, 1957 September 15, 1957 November 9, 1957 April 14, 1957 May 13, 1957 May 12, 1957 April 10, 1957 January 14, 1957 Aug. 25, 1957 August 14, 1957 October 3, 1957 July 8, 1957 June 2, 1957 Date Appointed Mary Ethel Gregory Rachel L. Lee Phyllis D. Smith Dora Rose H. England Kathleen B. Bentley Nettie P. Smoot Marteal W. Hendricks Alberta Ann Simmons Edythe C. Robbins Alice M. Christensen Emma Ashton Hanks Diana F.. Child Rhoda Clark Taylor Vera Calder Stratford June 13, 1957 October 3, 1957 June 6, 1957 October 11, 1957 November 14, 1957 April 8, 1957 Alberta Ann Simmons March 8, 1957 Anna C., Merrill July 30, 1957 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Index for 1057 Relief Society Mlagazine Available COPIES of the 1957 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price is 20¢, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1957 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertise-. Ment on page 209.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.50, including the index. A limited number of the 1957 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1957 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. + She Red Cross and Gis Field of Service O. C. Duckett Pacific Area Headquarters, American Red Cross nation's Character shapes its institutions. For 350 years the belief that individual freedom and well-being are largely dependent upon people helping themselves and one another has been a cherished part of the American credo. The record of things done under the emblem of the Red Cross during the past year spells continued faith in this American concept. It is a record written in the hearts of the 40,000,000 junior and adult members of the organization and in the hands of the 2,000,000 volunteer workers whose interest and effort made it possible. It also is indelibly imprinted in the minds and hearts of the millions whose needs were met in time of suffering and distress. The story of the American Red Cross from its very beginning has been based on volunteers who come from every walk of life expressing the great human impulse to help those in need. They provide the mainspring and momentum of every service and activity performed by the Red Cross. March is traditionally the month during which Red Cross asks the American people to renew their membership in the organization and to enroll among the ranks of the volunteers who carry on its service programs. In issuing the annual call for Americans to join and serve Red Cross, National Chairman E. Roland Harriman declared: Red Cross must keep pace with the tempo of the times. It must grow along with our nation if it is to keep up with increased demands. We have the dynamic will to grow and to serve the American people better, but we also need a dynamic increase in volunteer membership and strength and in financial support. t's Smart o lake Dts Guna to Sake Part ELONGING to the Church is important. It opens the way for us to work out our salvation, but it's only the first step on the road to happiness on carth and cternal progress in heaven. 'The rest comes through obedience and performance every day of our lives. This is one of the reasons the Church offers so many opportunities for daily participation. 'The degree to which we take part in these spiritual, intellectual, physical, and social exercises will determine the degree to which we are eventually saved. Let's take some examples: A boy or a girl takes part regularly in class instruction, and he learns, in the process, priceless truths. "And "We are saved no faster than we gain knowledge." Page 179 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 We join the Church-sponsored scout troop, a young people's chorus, a singing quartet, or we "try out" for a part in a dramatic skit. That's experience, progress. We take our turn to speak on principles of the gospel in our young people's improvement meetings or in Sunday worship services. Again, we're taking part — going ahead. We participate in Church league basketball, softball, volley ball— and in the process we build the physical body, practice teamwork, and | learn the value of putting good sportsmanship into our play and work. Going to "socials" in the attractive and wholesome atmosphere of our Church recreational halls helps us to develop our social graces and meet and associate with young men and young women of our own kind— the kind we'd like to have for our friends and, eventually, for our mates in matriage. As we get older we become scout leaders, Sunday School teachers, and many of us go on preaching missions. All this is "taking part." It is the day-by-day way to happiness and eternal progression. It is part—an important life-long part— in living our religion for our own good and for the greater good of others. So—young men, young women of the Church—don't be satisfied with just belonging. Start today to take part because it's smart. In other words— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF <> Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1958 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "To Be aQueen," by Myrtle M. Dean "The Apricot Tree," by Mabel Harmer "The Request," by Ruth M. Ostegar "To Have the Peace," by Betty Ventura > Unlimited Alice Whitson Norton I watched with awe the high tides of an ocean Come beating in against a ragged shore, And though for miles I viewed them, I was conscious Beyond the far horizon, there were more. Likewise, the treasures from my Father's storehouse I take them in yet never count the score, Believing, though my days are filled with blessings, Beyond life's great horizons there are more. Recipes Grom the Jahutian TTlission Submitted by Dorothy P. Christensen Pickuep Fisn 4 tomatoes 1 Ib. Fish (tuna, sole) 1 cucumber. —_— 1 tsp. Salt % onion 1 c. Lemon or lime juice 2 hard-boiled eggs Put one-half inch square pieces of fish (raw) in a bowl and cover with a solution of lime or lemon juice and salt. Let stand in solution for twenty minutes. 'Then pour off the lime or lemon juice and salt solution and rinse in cold water to remove excess salt. Drain and place in salad bowl. Cut up tomatoes, cucumbers, and onion into small "'salad-size" pieces and mix with the fish. If desired, coconut milk can be poured over this mixture. Sprinkle grated eggs on top and garnish with lettuce, sliced tomatoes, and parsley. Serve six. Coconut MILK Grate the meat of a fresh coconut into a large pan. Put the grated meat in a jelly sack and squeeze until the milk from the coconut is drawn out. Note: Coconut milk is the dressing for most Tahitian dishes. BANANA Pol 6 bananas % c. Sugar % c¢. Cornstarch (pia) 1 tsp. Vanilla Mix together very well the mashed bananas and cornstarch. Then add the sugar and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Put poi mixture in a bowl or pan to fit inside a large pan on top of the stove or better yet, inside a well cooker. Place about two inches of water in the bottom of the large pan, place a rack in the bottom of the pan and set the bow! Or pan of poi on top. Cover with waxed paper and steam for thirty minutes. Place poi in serving bowl, make a well in the center, and pour coconut milk over the poi. Serves six. > Spring Show Pansye IT. Powell Nature's preparing a special treat, Free for the eyes of all to meet— Someday soon in the early spring The tulips' annual opening! Page 181 Jf the Shumb Js Green C. W. McCullough AN'S life history began in a garden. Down through the ages since, people have gardened from necessity for food. It is only in most recent times that gardening has been recognized as a hobby, where a garden is made for sheer pleasure and self-satisfaction. But whether for pleasure or necessity, the instincts of a gardener are in us all. Not that we always follow our deep inborn tendencies. In the case of gardening, the trend is definitely away from admitting to such a heritage. As populations move away from rural areas toward urban congestions, fewer and fewer answer the intimate call of the soil and the mystic challenge of growing things. But the instinct for the intimate participation in seedtime and _harvest, the love of the soil, still cling to a great host of the knights and ladies of the rake and the hoe. As their number, relative to the overall population, decreases, the fraternity becomes more selective, more skilled, until the ranks are increasingly made up of those who garden primarily for pleasure. And because they love the soil, seed, and the wonders of plant growth so deeply, nature responds in a special way to their care, until the world says to them, "They have a green thumb." Because of gardening primarily for pleasure, the question of profit or loss seldom is the most important factor in today's planning. The profits the gardeners seek are often in the coin of satisfaction, health, exercise, pride. They glory in havPage 182 ing their tables laden with rightfrom-the-garden, vitamin-rich dishes —and so often the tables of their neighbors, as well. A successful gardener is invariably vague as to the actual cost of his prize cabbage or the biggest pumpkin at the fair, just as the true sportsman closes his eyes to the real cost of a basket of trout or a brace of pheasants. Thus it is that most gardeners today are perfectionists. Whether they raise vegetables or flowers, the plot of ground that they till becomes a veritable work of art. A good garden is never a haphazard thing. 'To serve seedtime and harvest properly requires planning. The successful gardener, particularly the novice with limited space, will find it a wise practice to plant the garden first on paper. This will help not only to insure economy of seed purchases, but more lmportantly, will make for an all-season crop balance. 'Thought can be given to proper row widths and length of rows to be devoted to each variety. Many seed houses print on the packet, not only the recommended depth and distance apart to plant the seeds, but also the number of feet of row the contents of a packet will plant. Wherever seasons are long enough to permit second plantings, early maturing crops can be located where they can be cleared away and the ground prepared for replanting with least disturbance to the slower maturing plants. Where flowers are to be grown, many striking and pleasing effects can be worked out on paper be- IF THE THUMB IS GREEN fore one goes to the nursery to buy seeds and shrubs. Many common mistakes may be avoided, such as planting shade-loving varieties in sunny spots, or the reverse. Incidentally, your nurseryman ls a friend to whom you should bring your preseason garden problems. He is in a position to give you helpful advice regarding best varieties to plant in your particular climate and altitude, as well as tips on fertilizers and pesticides. A garden should yield bountifully and to do so good soil is required. If the quality of a garden soil is subject to suspicion, a soil analysis of a sample sent to your state agricultural college will reveal its deficiencies and suggest the proper fertilizers needed. 'This is a measure that should be done before, not during the planting or growing season. There is nothing more discouraging than to invest good seed, time, and backaches into a garden that was doomed by poor soil before it was started. A garden should never be so large that its care becomes a burden. Or as someone has stated, "No garden should be too big for your wife to handle." Many a zealous gardener has started out with the idea of making his garden a hobby, a 183 place where he could putter around evenings, only to find himself ending up as a slave to a too ambitious project. This brings up the subject of tools. Most good gardeners are cranks about their tools — such as takes, hoes, trowcls, spades, and cultivators. 'They buy the best, keep them sharp and in careful repair. Many have a special shed or a section of a shed where they keep their tools under cover and go over them carefully during the winter to insure that they will be in best of shape for spring. A set of garden tools, if well taken care of, will last for many years of most exacting service. But just what is the charm of a garden? What is the mystic hold it wields over a man or a woman? As winter wanes and the promise of spring is in the air, these are fair questions to ask ourselves. 'There is a fair answer to be found in that seed catalogue that came through the mail the other day. There is an answer in that bit of soil beside the house that cries for a bed of gay flowers, the plot of ground yearning to supply your table with really fresh vegetables and strawberries all summer. 'There is even an answer in a window box. Urban Spring Alice Morrey Bailey After the winter's smoke-black snow The neighbors come out from their walled-in heat And curry the landscape with rake and hoe While last summer's friendships again repeat. And here are their houses, row on row, With each tiny crocus cement-walk neat, And all of the little square lawns that go With uniform greenness down to the street. You Can Sew— Cutting Jean Ridges Jennings EWING at home, making S clothes for the family, is a most desirable accomplishment. 'The "sew-it-yourself" phase of the "do-it-yourself" craze has taken hold everywhere. Never before have fabrics been so attractive and varied. Well-planned and well-made equipment for every possible need is abundant. Sewing does not need to be a task if you go about it in the right way. With careful planning and the use of proper techniques you will find that it can actually be a pleasure. More and more the trend in home sewing is for methods that will save time and motion. One of the most discouraging aspects for amateurs has always been that it is so time-consuming. Many women shy away from making their own clothes because it takes too long. Any ideas for saving precious minutes are always needed and welcomed. Don't rush. 'Take your time and plan well so that you won't be in a hurry to fimsh. Slow work gives better results than too fast work. Don't sew when you don't feel like it. The series of discussions that will follow in this issue and in the next few months is designed to give some helpful hints on sewing techniques with the purpose of making this kind of work easier, quicker, and more fun. CuTTING F prime importance in making any successful garment is getting off to a good start. Without Page 184 a good beginning, there may be difficulty all the way. Many a dress failure is made before the dress is cut. 'Trouble starts as soon as the work starts because of the failure to alter the pattern properly before cutting the material. Dressmaking can be much simpler and the results more satisfactory when you "cut to fit" instead of leaving all the fitting to be done after you begin to put the garment together. Dress patterns are sized according to bust measure, but not all figures with a given bust size have the same over-all proportions. So it becomes necessary to adjust each pattern to conform to the individual figure. A very excellent way to know how your pattern is going to measure up is to first select one of your dresses that fits you as you wish to have your clothes fit. 'Then, with the dress flat on the table, measure it and compare these measurements with those of your pattern. Commercial patterns give instructions showing where pattern changes should be made for each piece. It is wise to study these instructions and make your adjustments accordingly. In doing this, an important point to watch is the grain-line of the material. Alterations must not disturb the lines indicating the straight grain. Prepare a chart with your figure measurements and also corresponding pattern measurements. Compare the two and note the changes to be made. Then make your alterations before any cutting is done. YOU CAN SEW Before attempting to cut out any fabric, be sure it is properly prepared. It should be pre-shrunk, grain-straight, and pressed free of wrinkles. Unless this is done, there is always the chance that an offgrain will result in a poorly fitting garment. When all steps mentioned above have been taken, you are ready to lay your pattern on the material preparatory to cutting. Following are important points to be noted at this point in your dressmaking venture: 1. Select the correct cutting diagram for size, pattern, and width of material, as shown on the pattern instruction sheet. Mark it plainly so it can be referred to easily. If you are not experienced, it is better to follow it exactly. 2. Sort out pattern pieces and put away all that will not be used for the style you have chosen. This will help eliminate confusion. 3. When fabric is cut double, fold the right side to the inside. This helps keep material clean and the pieces will be cut ready for marking and ready construction. If pieces are to be cut singly, be sure the right side of the material is facing up and that the pattern is also right side up. When sections, such as sleeves, are to be cut twice, but have to be cut singly, be sure the pattern is turned over for the second piece. In this way, there will be one for each side instead of having both for the same arm. 4. Printed on each pattern piece is a heavy arrow marked Place on straight of farbic. It is absolutely essential that this line follow the weave of the cloth exactly, if the garment is to hang correctly. 'here must always be absolute accuracy on this point. Measure with a ruler or tape measure from each end of this arrow to the selvage of the material and adjust so that distances are the same. Place pins at arrow points to hold in place and then pin the remainder of the pattern piece to the fabric. 185 5- Some of the pattern pieces will be marked to cut on a fold of the material. The skirt back, for example, may say Center Back—place line on fold. Be sure of perfect accuracy in placing such pieces, turning the excess margin of the pattern under and placing the folded edge to the fold of the cloth. 6. When materials such as corduroy, velvet, or velveteen, which have a definite up and down, are used, it is necessary that all pattern pieces are turned in the same direction. 'That is, the top of each section must be toward the same end of the fabric. The same care must be taken when cutting printed fabrics whose design has an up and down. 7. In using materials which have a design, such as in stripes or plaids, that are spaced at regular intervals, it is quite important to have the designs match where sections are sewed together. In order to be sure of this, care must be taken at the time cutting is done to place the pattern properly. Be sure that notches which come together as seams are sewed are placed at the same place on a stripe or design. Sometimes matching designs in dress construction results in some waste of material. So it may be necessary to buy extra fabric if plaids or stripes are used. 8. Place large sections of the pattern on the material first, and then fit the smaller pieces in around them. This will result in greater economy of time and cloth. G. Plan the entire pattern lay-out before any cutting is done. Be sure you have a place for every pattern piece. Many times the first time pieces are placed on the material, there does not seem to be enough cloth to do the job. However, with careful re-arrangement, pieces may fall into place satisfactorily. Never cut anything until your plan is complete. 10. Last, but by no means least, be as economical as possible in your cutting. Don't waste material. Place pattern pieces on the cloth in such a way that leftover fabric is im as large pieces as possible. You never know when you may need or want a sizeable piece for remodeling or repair at some later date, and you'll be glad you were careful. Nellie Porter Workman Mlakes Beautiful Gifts HE hobbies of Nellie Porter Workman, of Salt Lake City, Utah, have brought warmth to hearts in scores of homes and have enriched her own life with the gratitude of friends and relatives. Among the treasured gifts are crocheted, netted, and tatted doilies; chair sets and dresser sets; crocheted layette sets, consisting of sweaters hood, and bootees. She has made sweaters, gloves, aprons, and many other articles of exquisite handwork. Earlier in her life, when she was left a widow with eight children, she used her handwork skills and her teaching ability to make a living for her children. She is now confined to a wheelchair and has not walked for tw enty-two years, and yet she is busy and contented, always cheerful and optimistic, continually thinking of others and making gifts for them. She devotes much time to genealogy work and teaches the literature lessons in Relief Society. Mrs. Workman is the mother of nine children, including an adopted daughter. She has thirty-three grandchildren and seventeen greatgrandchildren. Her cheerfulness and courage are an inspiration to all her relatives and friends. Deals Grace Ingles Frost Without ideals, life loses much of meaning. Ideals are stars that hearten us to strive; They light the way for more transcendent gleaning, And keep ambition's ambient flame alive. Page 186 One Day in Spring Sylvia Probst Young T was a strange place for a cemetery, next to the schoolhouse. From the south window of her sixth grade room, Phyllis Sanders looked out at the granite markers standing as mute memonials in the haze of the early September sun. Tears stood in her eyes, painful as salt in a wound. Mr. Carter had not thought of it or he would have given her another school, of course, for Mr. Carter possessed a great depth of understanding and sympathy. He had come one day in early summer and asked her to take a teaching position in the district. She didn't want to think of it. She had only wanted to get away from everything dear and familiar—everything that reminded her of Hugh. But running away had not been the answer, for sorrow had traveled with her wherever she went. What she needed was work—exacting and hard, to occupy her time. In the middle of August she had come back to take the school Mr. Carter had offered her. And now there was a cemetery right out of her window — something to remind her constantly that Hugh was gone. Abruptly she turned and looked around the room. It wasn't large enough for much rearranging, but, at least, she could turn her own desk away from the windows. From the outside the laughter and shouting of children floated up to her. She looked at her watch — five minutes to nine. Now the students were trooping in, and the schoolhouse that yesterday had stood empty was busy and _ noisy and alive again. By her door Phyllis watched the sixth graders — giggly — shy — some almost mature. 'They smiled at her. In the room they chose seats and the day began. 'The first day of school — getting acquainted, prayer, salute to the flag, planning the year's work. 'Thirty-four twelveyear-old boys and girls — alive — eager — challenging. Phyllis looked at the list of names that Mr. Hales had given her. "Tm going to call the roll," she said, "and while I do, if each of you will print your name and put it on your desk, it will help us to get acquainted more quickly." They answered to their names... Mary Andrews... Darrell Allen.. Carol Bates... Joe Bennett. There was no answer when Joe's name was called. "Joe Bennett," Phyllis repeated. "Hey, Joe, are you here?" someone spoke up. A titter ran through the room, and Phyllis looked down at a boy sitting by the window, a frail-looking, fine-featured lad whose face was marked by sorrow, whose eyes gazed out at the cemetery. He isn't in school, she thought, his mind is faraway. All day long she wondered about him. When school was out she went to see Mr. Hales. "Tell me about Joe Bennett, he's such an unhappy youngster." The principal nodded. "I meant to tell you about Joe before. He is a sad case. His mother was buried Page 187 188 about a month ago — rheumatic heart. She was Joe's whole life. They came here last year from Colorado. Joe's been in half a dozen schools. We don't know much about his father — parents were divorced. Joe and his mother have been here with her father — old man Peters. Peculiar old man, somewhat of a hermit. They seem to have no religious affiliations, and they're very independent. Joe's a sensitive boy, shy and not very well adjusted socially. But he's never known any security, poor kid. I don't know how he'll make out now that his mother's gone.... But you'll probably understand him more than anyone else could." There was sympathy in the man's voice, and as Phyllis walked back to her room, she knew that she would be drawn to this orphan boy by the heartache that bound them both. Bur Joe Bennett was not an easy boy to reach, he was out of school much of the time, and, when he came, he spent most of his day gazing out of the window. Often at recess he would cross to the cemetery to sit by a grave that seemed to be his only possession. Night after night he had to stay after school to complete his work, but he showed no resentment, only simple resignation to what must be. More than once Phyllis had tried to talk to him, to break through the high, tight wall around his lonely, little world, to show him that she was his friend, but she had not succeeded. Although he was never rude, he answered questions, but remained always non-committal. Then one day in November when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 the hills stood brown and bare beneath a lead gray sky, Phyllis had a strange experience. It had been a hard day at school. She had moved like an automaton, mechanically doing her work while her heart was torn with memories. A wedding anniversary should be spent with one you love. All day long she had relived her wonderful days with Hugh, remembering little intimate things — the way he had said "Hi, honey" and the way he had tried to damp the wave out of his hair — the smile wrinkles around his eyes... A dozen different things. Promptly at four o'clock she had left the schoolhouse, the old yearning to get away strong within her. Overhead wild geese, in a patterned formation, winged southward. Her eyes followed them __ pensively. Hugh's, too, had been the wide expanse of sky, the whir of wings that had laughed at her earth-born fears. She quickened her steps. Pll ride, she thought, fast and far, I won't remember. She was getting into her car when she saw him — a lone boy in the cemetery. Joe — he hadn't been to school today. Without a second thought, she closed the car door and walked across the yard to the cemetery gate. Chrysanthemums, bronze and white, carefully arranged in a fruit bottle were on Joe's mother's grave. "Tt's her birthday," he explained when Phyllis commented on their beauty. "We missed you at school," she said, sitting down on the dead brown grass beside him. "But I know how special days are. It's that kind of a day for me, too, Joe. It's my third wedding anniversary." ONE DAY IN SPRING "Oh." The boy turned questioning eyes to her, he did not know. With an effort she kept her voice steady. ""My husband was a test pilot, he was killed last spring in a plane crash." Quick sympathy filled Joe's eyes. "Gee, Mrs. Saunders, I'm awfully sorry. I guess we feel alike—you and I." And suddenly then he was crying — hard, racking sobs. They tore Phyllis apart. She put her arm around him and, when the tears had subsided, she spoke gently, praying for the nght words. ¢¢JOE, you and I know the same kind of loneliness. But we have to remember that those who have died are only away. One day we will be reunited with them." Abruptly the fair head was raised, and the reddened eyes were filled with a strange wonder. "You mean," he said slowly, "you mean I will see my mother again?" "Joe!" Phyllis looked at the boy in amazement. It was incredulous. No wonder his grief was so overwhelming. Where were they who should have taught him? What had Mr. Hales said — they had no religious affiliations. "Joe, didn't anyone ever tell you —at the funeral, or your grandpa?" The boy shook his head, "Grandpa only said the dead are dead, and there's no use worryin' about it." Grandpa — what must he be like? Mr. Hales had said, peculiar. Probably doing his duty by Joe, living only for here and now. But how unjust to leave a boy alone, groping in the darkness. "Joe, listen to me, you will see your mother again. Death is some- 189 thing like winter and spring," she spoke gently. "Look at the trees now — brown and bare, but when spring comes what will happen? Life will return, the sap will flow again, and they will leaf out and bloom. "Tt's something like the resurrection, and it will come to everyone who ever dies. Your mother will live again, as surely as the blossoms return." And while the shadows lengthened, the teacher talked to her student, but she was more than a teacher of everyday subjects, for her words were food for his starved soul. Quietly she told him of God and of the Master who had given his life that we might live. In the light of her understanding, the boy found words to release the tension, to her he opened the door of his tight little world. Darkness had fallen when they drove to Joe's grandpa's house. A shabby, forgotten structure, it stood on a lonesome road behind a hill. The light from two small, curtainless windows pierced the gloom like cat's eyes. As they neared the house, Joe seemed to draw within himself. When the car stopped he got out quickly, and with a brief "Thank you," he ran up the path without a backward glance. Driving back toward her own home, Phyllis pondered on the little drama in the cemetery. Had she helped Joe? He had listened and even talked of himself, but how quickly he had withdrawn again. If she had helped him, she wasn't sure, but within her own heart was a quiet peace. Had the telling of things she knew, the oral repeating of truths for her own hearing, 190 given her a needed peace? As she rode along, a phrase from the Bible came to her —"Physician, heal thyself." LL through the days that followed she was aware of Joe. But there was never again an opportunity to talk in quiet confidence. The winter days were busy ones. Joe rode the bus now, and went home promptly at four. His eyes were often on the snow-covered cemetery, but Phyllis noted with a feeling of joy that his school work was greatly improved. She wondered how much he remembered or believed of what she had told him, and she found ways of keeping him aware of it. Whenever possible she talked of God in the lessons. The class library was supplemented with some of her own books. When the snow started to melt in March she turned the students' interest to watching for signs of spring. Still Joe was ever an enigma. "T've tried so hard," she told Mr. Hales one night near the end of school, "but I don't know if I've done anything for Joe." "A teacher," Mr. Hales reminded her, "seldom has a way of measuring just what she has done. You might be surprised." On the day school closed Phyllis watched nostalgically as her students came in for the last time. The vear had been good for her — work, giving of herself. The pupils crowded around her desk. "School has been fun, Mrs. Saunders.... I hate to see it close now.... Are you coming back to teach here, Mrs. Saunders?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 There were gifts on her desk — a silk scarf, a beautiful linen handkerchief with crocheting around the edges — some rhinestone earrings. She gave out the report cards — goodbyes were said. But one report card still lay on her desk when everyone had gone. Joe Bennett had not come.. Phyllis was keenly disappointed. Somehow she had failed. She was counting scissors — her last chore — when the door opened. Standing there, with his arms filled with apple blossoms, was Joe. I'm sorry I came so late," he apologized. "I had to help Grandpa." He held out the blossoms — pink and white, delicately fragrant. "I brought them for you," he said. Blossoms... And she had thought the cause was a lost one. But now he stood before her, a child who had groped through winter darkness to find the blossoms that she had told him about. With blurred eyes, she gathered the blossoms to her heart. "Joe, it's the nicest gift I've ever had," she said in a choked kind of voice. It was after he had gone that she found the card, carefully written and tied to a small green branch: "Thank you for being my teacher. —Joe." For a long moment she held the little card in her hand. Here was recompense beyond anything monetary... A little homemade card bearing a boy's name, an expression from the heart. It would be tucked away with her keepsakes — something to be long treasured. From Shirt to Slips Hazel Brackett VERY good slip for a small girl can be made from a man's white cotton shirt that is showing wear. The slip pictured was made from a pattern, in a size two. If commercial patterns are not available, a pattern can be cut from an old slip. This slip was made from two shirt backs as the fronts were damaged, and the placket opening was not used. Directions Save time by cutting out the sleeves and yoke, rather than ripping the shirt. Cut off the front facing and join the two sides of the front of the shirt by a seam. Cut the front of the slip from the back of the shirt and the back of the slip from the front of the shirt. The fold of the pattern will be on the front seam. Baste and stitch the shoulder seams. Cut the placket facing, rip the back seam the length necessary, baste and stitch the placket. Turn under the armholes and sew. Join the sides by French seams. Finish the neck and hem with lace, ruffled edging, or a plain hem. About a yard and a half of edging at twentytwo cents a yard was used on the slip pictured. Sew on a button and make a thread loop for the back opening, and the slip is done. If the sleeves of the shirt are large enough and not too badly worn, you may wish to make a slip from them. 'This requires a little more manipulating and some piecing. One sleeve provides the back and the other the front. 'The slip will be crosswise of the material, but this has no effect on its wearability. Panties, also, can be made from the sleeves. A seam will be required at the bottom. About three yards of ruffled edging will be needed for ruffled panties, depending on how full the ruffles are made. The material in men's shirts is of high quality, so they make attractive, durable underclothing which may be bleached or boiled. Besides providing clothes for the family, this could be a project for girls when they are learning to sew. Page 19] Only Sage and More Sage Mabel Law Atkinson T was April. Lena looked soberI ly into the serious eyes of Jim Johnson and shook her head. "But when will you marry me, Lena, never?" "Don't sound so doleful, Jim." "But I must know. I can't be kept dangling like this." Lena waved a hand to indicate the acres of sage land and said slowly, "TI marry you, Jim, when autumn flames from bush to bush on this land, and flames so brightly as to illuminate the sky. I loved the autumn back home, with its scarlet and gold spreading like flame, but here all is desolate, only sage and more sage." "But give us time, Lena darling. Already the few acres of winter wheat are greening, and this summer more of this sage land will yield fertile black loam which next spring will be burgeoning with grain and hay. And, Lena, over there will be the school; and there the steepled church; and there the store." Jim indicated the places as he spoke. "Can't you vision this a_ thriving town with broad, smooth highways? With our log cabins growing into homes adorned with the work of our hands, as our Prophet said, with beauty twining above our doors in vines and roses?" "No, Jim, all I can see is desolation. I'm sorry, but I cannot rust out in this parasitic desert." As Jim cast her a startled look, she added hastily, "Oh, don't worry. I'll stick it out this summer for Mother's sake, and for Dad's, then before winter comes I shall return East." Lena did not mope but pitched Page 192 in and helped with the creation of a home, with beautifying the grounds and with the garden, praying for sufficient rain for it to grow. "To think we'd ever be planting — the peelings of potatoes!" she laughingly said to Jim a month later. "You know I've decided I shall have all the fun I can in everything I do, and make this summer profitable. Why, I even carry water from the river to the flowers which are coming up by our cabin door. Come in and help eat the potatoes whose peelings I've planted, and you'll see a lovely bouquet beautifies the table. And do you know, Father said this morning that someday water will flow from the river through canals to irrigate our farms? That would be a miracle, don't you think?" "Yes, and there will be many miracles accomplished by our faith and toil." As Jim entered her home and saw the blue bowl filled with wild sweet williams centering the table, he turned to Lena saying, "That's my girl." She blushed rosily and began putting the food on the table to cover her confusion. UMMER passed quickly. 'The two were together much of the time, but Jim never mentioned the subject of marriage again. In July, Jim and Lena attended the first dance held in the new meetinghouse, a one-roomed structure with a cloak room in front. It would serve as dance hall and schoolhouse until these could be erected. As they entered and saw the mellow light from the coal-oil ONLY SAGE AND MORE SAGE lamps hung on the walls with reflectors behind the chimneys, Lena whispered, "Oh, Jim, what a homey atmosphere! I can hardly wait to dance again." "Good girl," he said gently as they waltzed away to the music of harmonicas played by four of the boys. Later, as they danced the square dances to the tune of Ole Olson's violin, Lena felt that perhaps this pioneering venture had compensations. She renewed her promise to herself to enjoy each day with its work and its recreation. Time raced quickly by and _harvest was upon them. Lena felt a new excitement when Jim's father drove over one afternoon and said, "Well, Miss Lena, would you like to be a harvest hand tomorrow? Jim said I shouldn't ask you to do such work, but I think you will enjoy it. All the other young folks, girls as well as young men, are coming." "Why I wouldn't miss it for anything. I'll be there!" "Come at sunrise!" he called from the gate, then came back, lowered his voice and went on, "I'll give my thank-you at night—a bonfire party and a dance afterward in the open. Just thought I'd let you in on my plans." He started to leave, then came back again and said hesitatingly, "And Lena, don't worry. If you can't love my son enough to want to marry him and stay here and bear his children, why you can't, that's all there is to it, but I'd be proud to claim you for a daughter. You have spirit and intellect and common sense, and... Beauty! Now Pll go for sure." Lena stood watching him drive away, then repeated slowly, "I'd be 193 proud to claim you for a daughter." The words echoed in her mind like a chant off and on all day. UNRISE found an eager group of young folks and a few older men at the Johnson place ready to begin threshing. The timothy and lucern seed were threshed out first. Laying the timothy (and later the lucern) on a large canvas fastened to the ground by means of pegs at the corners, the threshers flailed it until the seeds were released. Lena was fascinated as she watched Jim's father eliminate the chaff by means of two pans and a breeze. He poured seed from one pan held high into the other one held lower and continued pouring from one pan to the other until the seed was free of chaff. She seemed attuned to the miracle she was seeing, and to the very vibrations of the air. When they all trooped to the house for dinner, Lena was one of the first to wash in the tub of water outside for that purpose. Without hesitation, she lathered her face as well as hands with the homemade soap, rinsed it off, then rubbed them shining with the seamless sack towel. After dinner, the crew rested for awhile on the shady side of the cabin, then resumed their threshing. "Lay the bundles in a circle on the canvas," called Jim's father. "With the heads in toward the center, Lena," said Jim who saw she was about to lay her bundle the wrong way. "Now tramp, tramp, tramp the bundles!" sang out Old Jake Winters, who was caller for their square dances and had been especially in- 194 vited to be there. Again and again they tramped out a new set of bundles. In the middle of the afternoon, Sister Johnson brought lemonade and apple pie to revive them, so she said, but she found no drooping spirits. However, they hailed her with shouts of welcome. "IT never knew work could be so much fun," Lena called to her with laughter in her voice and her eyes. "And just look at your Jim, I never dreamed he could be so handsome with a smudged face." "There's a smudge on your own face, my beauty," he retaliated. "T don't doubt it. And to think I'd ever eat pie like this, holding it with grimy hands!" "What matter if the heart is clean!" It was Jim's father who spoke, for he had overheard their banter. Then he called out, "Time to start again!" That was the signal for Old Jake to begin whistling and clapping his hands to bring out the rhythm. Round and round the young folks marched, tramping out the grain, at times singing the words to the whistled melody. HEN the last circle of bundles was tramped, Jim said, "Now if only a good breeze will come this way." "Hold your face this way, Jim, for I feel one coming, sure as sure.' Lena was all expectancy as she answered. "Providence is with us all right," called out Jim's father as he panned out the chaff. When the clean, amber grain was sacked, Brother Johnson thanked them all warmly then continued, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 "Tt's sunset now. Go home, do your chores, and return at dusk to gather sage." "A bonfire party!" shouted one. "And a dance afterward, an outdoor dance!" called another. "We'll be here, Brother Johnson, we'll be here!". And they were, the girls looking their prettiest in their calico dresses, and the men gallant, yet shy, in their clean shirts. What joy it was to dance in the light of the fire to the music of Ole Olson's violin interspersed with Old Jake's whistling! Everyone joined in the fun. "Now!" called Brother Johnson, when it was nearing midnight, "Let's boom the fire, then waltz to 'Home Sweet Home' played by Jack and Pete here on their harmonicas. Soon the rest of the sage was piled high on the glowing coals. As Lena was swinging her arm to throw on the last and biggest sage of all, Jim's hand closed over hers, and together they swung their arms twice, then released the prize limb which landed on the very top of the blazing tepee of fire. They were waltzing when the beauty of the scene bade them stop and enjoy to the full the picture portrayed. Jim's eyes were shining as he turned to the girl and said, "See, Lena, autumn flames from sage to sage on this land, and flames so brightly as to illuminate the sky! Do you know what that means, Lena?" Her eyes were shining, too, and her lips were smiling as she answered, "Yes Jim, I know. Why do you suppose I worked so hard to gather sage?" Lunch At Grandmas Elsie C. Carroll 66 JELLO, Mother. I have to go downtown this morning. Will it be all right if Luanne comes to your place for lunch?" "Why, of course. You know how happy I always am to have her." "T know. But please don't fuss as you usually do. Just a sandwich and a glass of milk is really all she needs." "Don't fuss!'" Of course I'd fuss. Having a guest for lunch always gives me a little tingle of excitement, even when—no, especially when the guest is my little eightyear-old granddaughter. I went to the kitchen and opened the refrigerator and cupboard doors. What should it be today? Not cream of chicken soup. She had that and an apple tart last time her mother left her. A lamb patty. 'There was just enough cold lamb. Or maybe I should make it into a little pie. I turned the oven on. What if it was extravagant to bake just one tiny pie! The heat would make the kitchen warm and cozy. Raw carrots. Her mother was always worrying how to get her to eat more vegetables. I'd shred them. In cold water it would take but a moment to make them ito pretty curls. They'd make a pretty nest in the little green glass boat she loved. Would raisins do for eggs? No, I'd open the jar of seedless grapes Sister Jenkins brought in last week. Sandwiches—I could use the heart and star-shaped cookie cutters and spread them with cheese and slightly brown them in the oven. Dessert? There must be dessert. It would take only a jiffy to make a tapioca pudding—and the top of a bottle of milk would whip—and a maraschino cherry on anything made a party dish for her. I got the little folding table from the closet-—the one her mother used to have, and put a pretty place mat on it. All was ready when she came. "Oh, Grandma! It's a party!" Stars were in her eyes. While she ate she told me what they'd done in school and what a pretty dress her teacher had. When she was almost through, she clapped her hands when she saw me reach for the painted candy box with my special "company goodies." "May I pick the one I want?" "Don't fuss!" It didn't seem like fussing. I tried to analyze the feeling of warm happiness in my heart just having that little girl eating her lunch in my kitchen. It seems our reactions to any experience are complex. I vaguely felt that this one, simple as it was, had a little bit of the past, and a little bit of what I half-consciously hoped would be the future fused with the present. I was remembering another little girl having lunch in a grandma's clean, log-cabin kitchen. That grandma, in her checked gingham apron with cross-stitch roses running across the bottom, and a tiny white tatted collar on her black dress, was reaching up to a special shelf in her homemade cupboard, which held a few glasses of bright currant jelly, kept for sickness and very special occasions. I was remembering how carefully she dipped out three spoonfuls of the delicacy and put them on a tiny treasured antique plate and set it beside two slices of crusty, fresh salt-rising bread and a mug of cold, creamy milk for the little girl-guest to eat. And vaguely fusing with that memory was a sort of longing that in some musty future day, perhaps another grandmother would be preparing lunch for another little gitl with stars in her eyes, and that she would look back happily upon this moment. Page 195 Yellow Padding Leone FE. McCune OMORROW vas the day! For two weeks now, my sister Alice and I had heard Mama talking with Papa about it. Papa had to hire a man in his place to go to the farm. And Mama had set the time for Liza, the hired girl to help. It was the only time Liza came, except when Alice was born and I was born. Alice and I could hardly go to sleep that night for thinking about it. Housecleaning time was the most exciting time of the whole year, except Christmas and the Fourth of July and threshing time. In bed we whispered together, lower and slower, and then tomorrow was today. Bright sunlight streamed through our open windows, where the curtains had been taken down to be washed and ironed. I woke up first and nudged Alice awake. We listened a minute to the noise of furniture being moved about in Mama's and Papa's bedroom. 'Then we jumped out of bed and began to dress, each one trying to beat the other. Soon, Mama, brisk and smiling, came into the room. "So, my darlings, you are already up?" She kissed each one of us. "As soon as you're dressed, go down to the kitchen and I'll give you your breakfast." Then she called to Papa to help take the mattress off our bed. Papa's face was wet with perspiration, when he gave us his morning kiss. 'They carried the mattress to their room, where a door opened onto a little porch, and dropped it to the lawn below where theirs had Page 196 already been dropped. Then Mama hurried downstairs. But who wanted to eat on such a morning? Papa had gone back to pulling tacks out of the gayly colored woven rag carpet. Giggling and bumping into each other, we descended the stairs. In the kitchen, Mama helped us wash, then she combed our hair. Liza, the hired girl, a tall, gaunt, pale woman, greeted us. "Good morning girls," she said pleasantly. "Good morning, Liza," we said politely, as Mama had taught us to do. Liza went on dipping hot, soapy suds from the big boiler heating on the stove, to take outdoors to the washtub. We climbed into our chairs at the breakfast table, and Mama brought us cereal from the back of the stove. Mama waited while I said grace. We ate as quickly as we could and then ran out to watch Mama and Liza. But they had already emptied the old straw from the ticks, so we watched them rub and rinse and put the ticks through the wringer. 'Then they hung them on the lines in the hot sun to dry. We raced across the grass under the apple trees and ran back upstairs to watch Papa. He had the carpet all untacked and ready to be taken up, when we got upstairs again. Alice and I kept getting in the way, and patiently he would urge us back. He brought each corner of the carpet to the center of the room in a heap, gathered it up and dropped it to the lawn YELLOW PADDING below, where the mattresses had one. Then, carefully, he began to push, sweep, and gather the faded trodden straw into an old sheet Mama had given him. When both carpets were up, Papa went down and swept and beat them until there was no more dust in them. While he did that, Mama and Liza cleaned the floors and woodwork and furniture, then left the rooms to air and dry, while we had dinner. By that time, Mama told us our dolls were so sleepy they needed a nap. She spread a quilt under the apple tree and gave us a blanket and pillows. FTER awhile we went inside and tagged along after Papa, when he went to the barnyard. There in a shed was a fresh, clean straw stack. He spread the sheet that he had emptied of the old straw, and laid it over the wheelbarrow. Alice and I carried our arms full, while Papa heaped it on with the pitchfork. It was clean and sweet smelling and as yellow as the moon that came up over our valley. We helped wheel the barrow to the house and then Papa took the straw upstairs to spread evenly on the floors. We left Papa to tack the carpets down again and went with Mama and Liza to fill the ticks with straw. Alice and I wanted to help fill them, but Mama said the dolls should watch so we stood and held them. When the ticks were as full as they could get, Mama and Liza sewed them together right down the middle. Then carried them upstairs to make up the beds. 197 Right after supper that night, Mama told us to get ready for bed, and this time we were happy to go early. We undressed and put on our long outing-flannel nightgowns. While we waited for Mama to come back to hear our prayers, we walked slowly and happily about the room. We listened to the crunching sound as our bare feet sunk into the padding of the carpet. Laughing and squealing with delight, we climbed over the foot of the bed in order to reach the top of the high mattress. What a wonderful feeling it was to sink our small bodies into the soft crunchiness of the straw, and to pull the clean crisp sheets and the clean homemade patchwork quilt over us. Mama soon came back to hear our prayers and blow out the light. "Sleep tight, now," she said, "so you can wake up early in the morning." The last thing we saw before it was day again, was moonlight streaming through the lace curtains at the open window, making lovely patterns of light and shadow on the floor. The next day's work was much like the first, only there were no beds to be made up. When evening came the parlor was the prettiest room of all. The sofa, the chairs, and table legs made lovely imprints of puffiness in the thickly padded carpet. The center table held the coal-oil lamp with its flowered glove. When it was lighted it cast a lovely glow on the family album and the Holy Bible. Again that night, and for many nights to come, there was delight in the new mattresses and the thick yellow padding of the carpets. Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: When her sister Elizabeth died, Carol Wilson, an artist, who was unmarried, felt great sympathy for the motherless children. Several months after Elizabeth's funeral, Carol, who had _returned to her magazine work in the city, received a letter from Kathy, the eldest niece, saying that the children were lonely and unhappy, and the grandmother ill. Carol decides to go to the children. AROL had never been welC comed anywhere as joyously as she was that Saturday morning at the little Wyoming airport. Fred had brought the children with him to meet her. As she came down the steps from the plane, she heard their shouts and saw their waving hands. Then, when she reached the gate, they swarmed over her with hugs and kisses. Behind them, her brotherin-law Fred Trent, stood beaming. "It's mighty good to see you, Carol!" he said. '"Watch out, children, or you'll smother her! Back up, Stevie! Give your Aunt Carol a chance to get her breath." Carol raised her face from the bobbing heads of the youngsters. She was flushed and happy. "Oh, Fred!" she cried. "I've missed them all so much! How are you? And how's everything at the ranch?" "Okay to both questions, Carol. Oh, Mother's been down with arthritis, but I have an_ excellent housekeeper, who looks after us all." Beneath the hearty assurance, Carol wondered whether she detected the same note of loneliness Page 198 and unhappiness that she had read in Kathy's letters. "Well, I'm here to cheer you all up a bit!" Carol said cheerfully and squeezed Kathy's thin shoulders. She would say nothing, as yet, about the tear-blob on the letter. They clambered into the station wagon, all four maneuvering frantically to sit next to their aunt. It was a laughing, happy group that went into the big ranch house, where Fred's mother sat in her wheel chair by the window, waiting for them. Carol went to the frail, suffering woman and kissed her. As Carol glanced quickly about the big living room she thought, there's something wrong with this picture! She had expected to find the children sad and unkempt, the house a shambles, everything just waiting for her magic touch to set it right. But the house was neat and orderly, the children well-groomed, and now the fragrance of a hearty meal greeted her nostrils. Carol shook her head. How could she have been so wrong? There was that tear-blob on Kathy's letter and Stevie's unmistakable hints, but now these seemed to have lost a good deal of their poignancy. Just then Mrs. Cartwright came into the room and was introduced to Carol. She was a tall, spare woman in her middle fifties, very neat and clean and efficient-looking. All through the noisy, delicious meal, Carol kept wondering where ELIZABETH's CHILDREN no, Carol. Mother. Morning, dressed in tetty spring outfits she had sent them. SHE had no Opportunity to question Kathy unti] that afternoon, after dinner. The little girls had around the little gitl and drew her close, When you wrote that last letter," Kathy raised her clear, honest eyes to her aunt's face, "] guess T was, 199 Aunt Carol," ashamed, "What was thing special?" "Oh, no!" Kathy answered. "It's she admitted, unwrong, dear? Anylike her, Aunt Carol. D and the tears come,., "' Carol's brow wrinkled, had gnawed at her? Honestly, We get so lonesome sometimes we just about die!" "But darling!; not Mommy, Aunt And they're not y It makes us sort of forget — oh, we don't teally forget, but it makes it €asier to temember." Carol drew the child closer, "I see, darling, Well, I am glad that I can do even that much for you children," 200 good for them to be spoiled a little now and again. How long can you stay this time?" Carol looked at the pain-drawn face of the invalid. How long can you stay or how soon will you go? Which did she mean? But one thing was certain, Mrs. 'Trent didn't expect her to stay indefinitely. Vo don't know, Mrs. Trent," Carol said slowly. "Not too long, I guess." "Well, as I said, it doesn't hurt them to have a little special attention now and then, though I'm a firm believer in teaching children to be self-reliant and independent. I've seen too many children ruined by too much attention." Carol smiled. "Tl try not to spoil Elizabeth's children, Mrs. Trent. Anyway, they'll be in school most of the time. I won't have many hours with them." She couldn't keep the edge of bitterness out of her voice. Mrs. 'Trent stretched out a frail, wrinkled hand and laid it on Carol's arm. "Don't take my _ words amiss, Carol. It's just that I need a lot of attention — and I hate to be a burden — hate to see Fred burdened, not only with me, but with all the responsibility...."" Her pain-dimmed eyes begged for understanding. Carol, touched, bent and kissed the wrinkled forehead. "I understand, Mrs. Trent," she said gently. FTER the children left on the school bus next day, Carol felt like a fifth wheel. She didn't dare pay too much attention to Trudy, the only one at home, and there was little to do in the house, so efficientRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 ly managed by Mrs. Cartwright. She was glad she had brought her painting kit with her. She gathered her equipment and went out into the field to paint the 'Tetons towering above the narrow valley. As she worked, she was thinking how Brent Gibson would love this Hpac Brent! She ought to be ack at her desk — the magazine needed her more than Elizabeth's children did. Then she shook away that thought. No, she was needed here, too, for awhile at least. Anyway, she could not go back and face Brent and say, "I was all wrong. They don't want me up there." Brent would smile his amused, understanding smile and tell her as he often had, "You'll learn, Carol. The only true peace in this world comes from work — work you love." The week passed uneventfully, but Saturday was to be a big day. The children and Carol were huddled over the table on Friday evening, making plans for the morrow's picnic, when the phone rang. Fred answered it, and as he listened an expression of delight brightened his face. He hung up the receiver and came to the table, his step light and buoyant, in spite of his six feet and well-matured frame. "Forget the picnic, kids!" he said excitedly. "Something better has come up. Guess what it is!" "What, Daddy? What could be better?" they asked. "Mrs. Graham and Tony are back! They'll fly in tomorrow. We're to meet them at the airport!" "Oh, goody! Goody!" Kathy cried. "She promised to bring me a doll from England!" "Tonys bringing me some (Continued on page 206) Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relicf Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Photograph submitted by Eieanadh W. Hatch IDAHO STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, December 8, 1957 Front row, scated, left to right: Joyce Hogan, chorister; Anne Whitworth, organist; Christene Hatch. Second row, standing, left to might: Ada Maric Maybe; Marcia Warner; Retta Barger; Laura Finlayson; Marvilla Jenkins; Aileen Hubbard; Beth Call; Marcele Hatch; Arlene Smith; Esther Wallace; Hazel Ozburn. Third row, standing, left to right: Evelyn McCammon; Bergetta Smith; Pearl Jackobson; Pearl Yost; Lola Walker; Iva Lou Ruger; Elva Call. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Jolene Hatch; mma Moore; Betty Thurber; Lila Welch; Mary Reed; Nora Maughan; Luclla Watkins; Chloc Christensen; Lillis Lloyd; Ruth Lewis; Connie Ozburn; Marjorie Hatch. Lifth row, standing, left to nght: Erma Banks; Claron Gibbons; Shirley Skinner; Donna Hatch; Beth Hogan; Hattic Meade; Helen Thomas; Marge Allen; Ida Kessler; Ina Wilson; Marjoric Christensen; Afton Johnson; Pearl Goodwin; Irma Humphries. Hiliabseth W. Hatch, President, Idaho Stake Relicf Society, reports: "Under the direction of Joyce Hogan, chorister, and Anne Whitworth, organist, these sisters learned the numbers in their respective wards, then came together for practice to be able to sing as a combined group in the afternoon session of our stake conference, December 8, 1957." Page 20] 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Photograph submitted by Eva H. Jensen MORGAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, December 8, 1957 Lena Giles is chorister for this group, and Joleen Price is organist. Eva H. Jensen is president of Morgan Stake Relief Society.: ° —_ — es — a oe Photograph submitted by Frances P. Andrus NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, HARDY BARRACKS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY (TOKYO, JAPAN) OPENING SOCIAL, September 24, 1957 Left to right: Verda Worlund, First Counselor; Margaret Gledhill, President; Phyllis Goodrich, Secretary-T'reasurer; Beth Hendricks, Second Counselor, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Frances P. Andrus, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society, submits the following report from the Hardy Barracks Branch Relief Society: "On Tuesday, September 24, 1957, the Relief Society of the Tokyo Servicemen's Branch, Northern Far Fast Mission, held their opening social. A lovely luncheon was served to twentythree members and their guests. 'The class leaders for the coming ycar were honored with miniature corsages of yellow chrysanthemums and blue ribbons. These women arc: Nellic Rac Jones, theology class Icader; Gladys Sorensen, work mecting discussion leader; Dorothy Harrell, literature class leader; Harriet Newman, social science class leader. "Phyllis Goodrich, Secretary-Treasurer, arranged an attractive centerpiece of yellow chrysanthemums and blue-tinted carnations. The cake, which was cut and served as desert, was symbolic of the work for this next year. It was artistically decorated with flowers and a book under which was written: 'Learning Brings Happiness, 1957-58." "The honored guests at this luncheon were Frances P. Andrus; Goldie Florence, wife of our district president; Marilyn Hug, a missionary; Virginia Phillips, President, Central Honshu District Relief Society, and her counselors and secretary: Juventa Lewis, Carolyne Bergeson, and Rula Cluff. "Sister Andrus gave some beautiful and inspirational thoughts in a short address. Sister Margaret Gledhill thanked the sisters for their interest and co-operation and wished all a happy Relief Society year. Sister Gledhill and her counselors... Arc to be commended for their spirit of leadership and organization in this group. "The servicemen's Relief Society groups are doing well and much good is being accomplished both with their own members and with our Japanese sisters." Photograph submitted by Olive B. Smart REXBURG STAKE (IDAHO), COLLEGE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUS PRESENTS MUSIC FOR WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE November 1957 Olive B. Smart, President, Rexburg Stake Relicf Society, reports on the activities of this outstanding group of young singers. This chorus of fifty-four members furnished music for the College Ward Relief Society Conference in November. Our College Ward organization of young girls is a successful and active group. Mary Hess is ward president, with Marilyn Windley as chonister for the singing group, and Merlyn Taylor, organist." 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Photograph submitted by Mary R. Edwards LAKE MEAD STAKE (NEVADA) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PROVIDE MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE Lenore Cramer, chorister, stands in front at the left; Almeda Deen, organist, is seated at the organ. Mary R. Edwards, President, Lake Mead Stake Relief Society, reports that this picture represents the second time that the combined choruses of the wards of Lake Mead Stake have presented music for stake conference, since they were made a stake a year and a half ago. Photograph submitted by Hortense Robinson FINNISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Helsinki, November 2-3, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Alida Larson, member Finnish Mission Relief Society board; 'Tyrne Lahtinen (Kokkola); Tomi Kerttula (Lahti); Lydia Miete, mission board; Bertta Hienonen (Kotka); Helka Karumo, mission board. Second row, standing, left to right: Aili Matilainen (Vaasa); Rauha Syrjala (Oulu); Elsa Blomquist (Jacobstad); Rauha Kempainen (Jyvaskyla); Saimi Hurme (Hameenlinna); Sofia Ranta (Helsinki); Aili Kauhanen (Tampere). Third row, standing, left to nght: Anna Stromberg (Larsmo); Helvi Pekkarinen (Kuopio); Aune Pyotsia (Pori); Wuokko Meittinen (Savonlinna); Lempi Ojala (Lap- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 peenranta); Kirsti Lehtinen (Joensuu); Lea Minni, First Counselor, Finnish Mission Relief Society; Hortense B. Robinson, President, Finnish Mission Relief Socicty. Sister Robinson reports: "Ihe two-day conference featured instruction mectings, lesson previews, teaching methods and aids, a pageant depicting ten years of Relief Socicty and Church growth in Finland, a testimony meeting, two gencral sessions, and a fireside featuring the new Rclicf Socicty Building. Lunchcons for the presidents of branches and the newly organized Relief Society board were held also. "The conference opened with a get-acquaimted hour. Music was furnished by a combined Singing Mothers chorus of fifty voices. 'The Saturday instruction meetings were attended by 150 workers, while attending the Sunday sessions were over 350. The conference was an inspiration and joy to everyone. We have seventeen branch Relief Societies functioning with all local Finnish leadership. Every branch was represented at the conference.... The Lord has blessed the work here, and we are very grateful for the spirit of this great work that is here in the mission...." —<— She Winds of Mlarch Helen S. Williams HERE are different kinds of winds that blow. There are the cold, freezing ones of winter, the hot scorching ones of summer, the warm, soft winds that coax the flowers to blossom, and cool, refreshing winds of early morning and of eventide that soothe and refresh. The best winds of all are the cleansing, blustering winds of March which prepare the earth for the newness of spring's resurrection. The strong winds blow away broken branches, winter soot and dirt, and the debris of the yesteryear, to make way for the blossoming of daffodils, tulips, and new beauty. Some say with the poet "It is an ill wind that blows no good." Yet even the ill winds of adversity and disappointment bring their blessings: "My son, peace be unto thy af thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment" (D & C 121-7). Financial troubles, if faced wisely and courageously, may develop new ambition for harder work, more wisdom in management, striving to live within one's means. They may be the incentive to pay an honest tithe, thereby receiving great blessings, materially and spiritually. Sickness and suffering, if met bravely, teach a new evaluation of the importance of life. A new television set, a new spring hat and dress or suit are not very important to the one who longs only to take a place in the stream of life with good health and vigor again. Yes, values take their rightful place when the so-called ill wind of sickness blows, and a new faith, courage, and hope are fanned into mankind because of suffering. Then there is bereavement. It, too, has its spiritual blessings even as it brings heartbreak and sorrow. The winds of sympathy and of understanding bring a closer telationship with our Father in heaven — for to those bereaved the veil is very thin between them and their loved ones. Age, which touches all who live long, may be a strength-bearing wind. Difficulties, if met without rancor, produce strength of character; disappointments increase courage and patience and straight thinking. The process of living can bring about serenity of soul and mind and wonderful understanding. The soul and spirit may stay eternally young, even though the winds of time and life destroy the physical appearance. Strength of character, wisdom, and courage should be the blessings of the aged. Most winds, if understood and accepted, are harbingers of spring, of better things to come, and of a renewal of hope. When the March winds blow remember: "Oh, wind, if winter comes, can spring be far behind?" 206 Sacred Selections THREE PART CHORUSES FOR LADIES = BRIDGE BUILDER—Dougall.....20 —— CREATE IN ME A CLEAN HEART—Muveller.......-......-..----.20 — FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD—Madsen.........-...-.-.---.20 oe GOD SHALL WIPE AWAY ALL TEARS—Roma............----.-++.20 -. GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND—Stickles.......20.. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.................20 a LORD'S PRAYER—Gates............20 i MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen 0.22.2....20 _ O DIVINE REDEEMER—Gounod.25 —_ TWENTY-THIRD PSALM— Malotte.0.2222..-2.-eeeeeeee eee eee eee eee.22 a VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS—Scott..... EEE.22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 £. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval () Charge O Money Enclosed a > Z a a 5 © wv ua ity & State i Da Mia G/ 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Elizabeth's Children (Continued from page 200) stamps!" Stevie boasted, "From every country they went to." "She's undoubtedly brought each of you something," Fred admitted, "but I hope that's not the main reason you're glad she's back." "Of course not, Daddy!" Kathy said seriously. "We'd be glad if she didn't bring us anything. We're glad she's coming home. She's been away so long!" The words brought a shadow to Fred's face. "Yes, she's been away so long." AROL knew from former visits that Dolly Graham owned the next ranch to Fred's. She and her husband had been Fred's and Elizabeths closest, dearest friends. But John Graham had died last spring, and later, before Elizabeth's death, his widow had gone to England to meet her brother, who was just completing his mission there. They had toured Europe and the Near East, spending Christmas in Palestine. Carol didn't quite remember where she had picked up all this information about the woman, but she had garnered it, bit by bit, during her visits. Fred noticed the somewhat puzzled look on Carol's face and exclaimed, "Forgive us, Carol. We were just carried away, I guess. But Dolly Graham is — well, someone special." "I know," Carol answered. "I've met her, of course, when 'Trudy was born, particularly. She helped so much...." The next morning Carol decided ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN not to go to the airport. The station wagon would be full enough without her. "You'll have a lot to talk about, all of you, so I'll just wait here. You're going to stop here on your way to her place?" "Of course. We'll have dinner. Mother would never forgive us if we didn't bring Dolly here first." Grandma 'Trent watched the happy group depart, and then she turned to Carol. "I'm almost as excited as Fred," she said happily. "Dolly is almost like a daughter to me, almost as dear as Elizabeth was. You know, after Trudy's birth Elizabeth never was truly well again, and Dolly Graham did everything a woman could do to make Elizabeth's life easier. 'The children adore her, and she knows how to handle them so easily and happily. It's a good thing she is home again." Carol knew the older woman wished to talk, so she asked, "What about her ranch while she's been gone?" "The foreman, Luke Nebcker, has taken charge. But of course Fred has kept one eye on it." Carol turned to the window and looked out at the serene, immutable face of the Tetons. "Now that Tony's back," Mrs. Trent went on, "he'll probably take over. 'Tony Muir's a fine young man, Carol. I don't think you have met him. He came to the ranch here only a few times before he was called on his mission, right after his parents died. He helped his father run the family ranch near Boise before that. But I understand that place is sold now, so he'll 207 Margaret Lund Tours Hawaiian Tour Leaves June 17 on the S. S. LEILANI, and returns by plane, July 5. Historical L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at HILL CUMORAH; Historical places of the Church; New York; Chicago; Washington; Canada; Niagara Falls; Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City Aug. 2, 1958. $210.00 for 23 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. European Tour leaves Aug. 18, 1958. Will visit London and Berne, Switzerland Temples. For further information write or phone: Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23 East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 — AM 2-2337 — CR 7-6334 GOOD LIGHT BRINGS BETTER SIGHT Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 208 probably run Dolly's. And," a speculative look came into the faded blue eyes, "if Dolly should marry again, well — if ony's here, it would be easier for her." Carol moved toward the door. "T think [ll take a little walk before dinner, if there's nothing I can do here to help." She always said that — and always there was nothing she could do. "Tl be back in an hour." She went out and across the field, walking swiftly. It was good of Mrs. 'Trent to fill her in on the details. But, she shrugged, what did she care about Dolly Graham or Tony Muir or any of these strangers? It was Elizabeth's children she was concerned about. And she could read what was in their grandmother's mind — a wife for Fred, a hand-picked mother for the children. Well, they wouldn't need her, then. But her need for them was deep and lasting. (To be continued) -~>+ Cae Christie Lund Coles Although no snow has fallen, The fog has lain upon The unsuspecting valley To silver-plate each lawn. Although no snow has fallen, When morning mounts the gloom, Each tree is spun with silver Like boucle from a loom; Although no snow has fallen, Each shrub wears Belgian lace, And with it iridescent pearls From night's dark velvet case. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1958 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. Jucia Carouine Beat Burr Provo, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Lorine IsaBeELLE LAMB H1GBEE Cedar City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Kare ABRAHAM Byron, Wyoming Ninety-four Mrs. Nancy Mann KArTCHNER Salt Lake City, Utah © Ninety-three Mrs. CATHERINE Lemon RicGBY Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Mary JANE SMART WEBSTER Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Rosenta MarsHaty Euis Bountiful, Utah Mrs. ANNA HILLSTEAD Preston, Idaho Mrs. EvizaABetH TayLor McENTIRE Rexburg, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs. Exten Larson SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Sina C. H. Mortenson Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Luetia Huvetr DALLEY Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Ipa Nicuotas DurFEE Pocatello, Idaho Ninety Mrs. ANNIE Woop WESTOVER Mesa, Arizona Mrs. AMANDA SEGO SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Amy TrressA Leavitt RicHARDSON Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Racuet MIDDLETON JENSEN Ogden, Utah THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES New Classes Begin Soon Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 EUROPE Temple Dedication Tour Sails July 25, 1958. Hawaii Spring Hawaiian Tour sails April 30th on the beautiful Lurline from Los Angeles, California. Historic Train Leave Salt Lake City on August 1, 1958. This tour will include the Pageant at the HILL CUMORAH. Write for itineraries for the European, Hawaiian, and Historic Train Tours. Get your reservations early as groups will be limited. For further information Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 ®@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from 150 to 300 miles 000. 639 300 to 600 miles See 5) 600 to 1000 miles uu... 1000 to 1400 miles - 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 70 S. MAIN ST. 70 North Main Sait Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles - SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Salt Lake City, Utah Rate nevscevesecnceveneces sD) — ———— = = SS ———= a a — i. SS ee — Why I Am a Mormon SENATOR WALLACE F. BENNETT A knowledgeable Mormon, addressing himself to his non-Mormon | friends, cogently and comprehensively explains his faith. This is delightful reading, made so by i language clear, rich and apt, and '| by ideas thoughtfully and grace- [| fully presented. A practical man of sound training, wide experience, and solid pioneer background gives | his readers an appreciation of Mormonism "in solemnity of heart and in the spirit of meekness." | FAMILY EXALTATION ARCHIBALD F. BENNETT The purpose behind the genealogical program of the LDS Church is specifically stated and the most effeetive methods of research given in this cloth-bound edition used by the Sunday School for the Genealogical Class. $3.50 (arts Janlly 3. INTIMATE DISCIPLE CLAIRE NOALL You'll thoroughly enjoy reading this beautifully-written novel on the life of Willard Richards, intimate friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith. 4.75 CX é —_— /. SIAR | 'wlll l Gentlemen: l Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order j bered) books: l 1 2 3 | NOM).... Eeeee ee SS SS | | Address oooo. Ooeeccececeecceecceeeeccccencceeccseecesevaccecesseessneeseserseeceseesseessaneeenenes | | a Zone........ State...........--eeeeeee | Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. | a eS ee | ( ) | have an account. Please charge for encircled num- Wa ote. ' MVEA ag 30 ~ 'Cc. Pattern of Wings Vesta P. Crawford Fulfilling now their seasonal design, In pattern and in ordered echelon, The faithful caravans of surging wings Return in melody through aisles of dawn. The countenance of sky is marked with birds, Certain as time and each ascending year, Ever immutable in flight they come To claim the elements and atmosphere, Beyond the meadow and the seeded plain The cycle of their destiny is known— Above the river and the reedy shore, Over the measured land where grain is sown.... And we who seek for further latitudes Now mark the symmetry, the circling wing, To find again in that repeated skein The compact and the testament of spring! The Cover: Liahona College, Tonga Photograph by Edward O. Anderson Frontispiece: Flight to the North Luoma Photos Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar In the December issue of the Magazine was a very fine Christmas story by Rosa Lee Lloyd. It should have been an inspiration to many who have forgotten the true spirit of Christmas. I look forward to reading Mrs. Lloyd's stories because they always seem to have such a real lesson in living to offer, along with the other welcome ideas in the Magazine. We are former Utahns who have strayed off to Oregon, and the Magazine brings us back closer to home. —Mrs. Betty Payne Alsea, Oregon I enjoy every issue of The Relief Society Magazine, especially the poems and short stories. 'The article "Women, Wonderful Women!" by Elder Spencer W. Kimball, in the January issue is very good. I thank Mrs. Elizabeth Hogan, Woods Cross, Utah, for sending the Magazine to me. I have joined the Relief Society. I am ninetyfour years old. —Mrs. Sophie Harsch Nauvoo, Illinois The first thing when I receive the Magazine, I open it to the frontispiece poem. I read it more than once in order to get its full beauty of expression and thought. Then my attention is taken by each splendid editorial. Especially do I appreciate the depth and meaning Brother Doxey puts into his impressive theology lessons, which I teach in our ward. Sister Christine Robinson's sincere' and nobly expressed Visiting 'Teacher Messages are a great incentive to right living. Just think how many homes are benefited by her gifted messages. —Clara H. Park Salt Lake City, Utah I enjoy the Magazine very much especially the stories, as they are short and so real and have such _ pleasant thoughts in them. As I have six children, I don't have too much time for reading, but do enjoy the timely advice and good wisdom which is found throughout the Magazine. —Mary Loomis Simms, Montana Page 210 Congratulations on the winning poems and stories published in the recent contests (January and February 1958). I think as a group the three winning poems are outstanding among contests, for theme, treatment, and variety. Mrs. Sutherland's story, as usual, displays her talent for portraying wholesome family life. I have been wanting to express our gratitude for having mother's poem "Blessed Among Women," and my poem "Upon a Holy Night,' in the December issue of the Magazine. We have long hoped that someday we might have a poem by each of us in the same issue of The Relief Society Magazine, so this came as a delightful Christmas surprise. Mother's poem had tied for second place in the unpublished poems at the Southwest Regional Contest of the National League of American Pen Women at Mesa Verde, Colorado, last summer. We were happy to have it appear in The Relief Society Magazine. —Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah Your wonderful story "Miss Pennywell Goes Into Action," by Frances P. Reid (October 1957) was very touching to me, especially as my family was living in East Grinstead, Sussex, England, at the closing of the Bluebell and Primrose railway line. Our little cottage gave an excellent view of the puttering little line, and our kiddies would wave to me on my journeys. At the time, I was microfilming for the Church in Lewes. All success to your wonderful Magazine. Have you any idea how many Priesthood bearers read it? —Ronald Cunningham Salt Lake City, Utah I love the Magazine and read it from cover to cover and enjoy reading those little letters in the front of the book written by other ladies. Finding dear old friends means a lot to me. I am sixty-six and live alone. I have a testimony of the gospel and read the Church books, and the gospel means more to me than anything else in life. —Mrs. Phoebe Welker Adams Portland, Oregon THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - - - - - - - - - = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 APRIL 1958 NO.4 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Resurrection and Things After o.... EoeeecccccccceccceeceeeceneeeeseeeeeS. Dilworth Young 212 In Memoriam—Adam §, Bemmion oo... Cece cscccececeeeeceeeecececeeecesceecaceveeseseecessavevavasesseestaaseesHarold B. Lee 216 Pearle M. Olsen Appointed to General Board oii. IoccecceccessesetsescsceceeeecsnseceesnecseecesessseseeseeeJosie B. Bay 219 Margaret Elsa T. Peterson Appointed to General Board oo ccccceescccccse sscssse essen.. Edith S. Elliott 220 Irene B. Woodford Appointed to ae | \ekovete| pre veveeee--eeee----Hulda Parker 221 The Tongan Mission. A eePreston R. Nibley 222 It's Smart to Take Part 2. Occ ccccceccecccseescceceneseceeeeesoseesececoseeececeosceceesepessissensenssenesssssceseecsustenseseseseeeeeecccanscacececseceeee 246 Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check oo. Cioincecccecccccccesee ee ceteee ee enceeee eeeWalter J. Kohler 248 FICTION—SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES To Be a Queen =.. Myrtle M. Dean 224 The Apricot Tree _ ———Mabel Harmer 236 © Request 20... Eecsescceseeeceees Ruth M. Ostegar 250 The Heart of the Home 22... Ececccceessseceeeeeeeceeeeeceeceeeeees.. Frances C. Yost 259 To Have the Peace =... Ae Betty Ventura 263 Elizabeth's Children—Chapter 4 Olive W. Burt 269 From Near and Far 210 Sixty Years Ago occ.. Ceccececcec-ccccccssosnscecsccccncceccorecccesercecencenecseceeeeececcescsseesersceseccceneusensveseseasenctenccersecenssecneusesenscees 242 Woman's Sphere oie eececeecceccecececccsseeesscovsteccecenannccsescaveseeeececes Ramona W. Cannon 243 Editorial: 'Swifter Than a Weaver's Shuttle'... -..--.-Helen W. Anderson 244 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.......... CcccccccccceccccccececceeseeeeeeescsceeeeeeeceeeesHulda Parker 272 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Color in the Borders 2........ Ecec ccecceccecsescceceseesceststeencccsssecsesaccesentecsssuseereneesosseesesenseesDorthea N. Newbold 230 Recipes From the Tongan Mission.0....0.00..00--.-.- Oe poc nee Rs cceaennecea-n oe aSylvia R. Stone 247 You Can Sew—II. Marking, Pinning, and Basting occ cscs. Jean Ridges Jennings 256 IMB GIES | occsccoen en cnscecccecceeeseesstbbtceecsensceessceceesseneeeseesasiebesessncarseees <aBlanche B. Peterson a" Sarah A. Sanders Makes Quilts for Contentment eerste estes 268 POETRY Pattern of Wings—Frontispiece —.............. ————— LSVesta P. Crawford 209 Unfoldment o. Oo. Eeeeccecsesecceeeeescceeessceees poe ee ee... Eee. Dna OE oneAmy Viau 215 The Gift of Regime oie cece ccccceteccceceescseseeseceeeeeseceeeeecesneesee... Dora Toone Brough 215 Portico to Beauty = __ So ee Leslie Savage Clark 218 Note to a Woodpecker ooo... Ccccssccccesesessseeesesesneescsceecesesseceeeesesesceeseeseneeseecaceseees w..... Alice Morrey Bailey 235 Invitation ooo cece eee. Mabel Jones Gabbott 241 Sounding Light 20.00.00... Ccee eee ee............. A8 Maude Rubin 248 Flowering — Tree. A eChristie Lund Coles 249 Confidential. = ae. See ee... A Ida Elaine James 255 Dirnste triad pte... Secetese.-. Cecsscsvevevesecororvie-s-+--cvateuvens —_—- x.. Grace Barker Wilson 255 True Sight........... A sc. B.. Csccecenzanees. > Mabel Law Atkinson 262 Spring Sabbath..... SN eee. Dorothy J. Roberts 267 In Spring.............. PT no. CccceecnsncensssaenseocesescececesisesareesSudie Stuart Hager 279 Proclamation.. Grace Ingles Frost 279 Spring ry Enola Chamberlin 280 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Birthday Congratulations 22..2..0...... Ceccceceesn sn enceseneneesesenenenensveceec seesensicieesesssssesesesenenscseeeoes The Green Day oon. Eccccccccsceccccescseeeeeeeeeeeeees. 280 cescsseetetesseeeeesesaseerereeeeseeneessecesieeseeeklsieé McKinnon Stracham 268 Resurrection and Things After Elder S. Dilworth Young Of the First Council of the Seventy T is spring. Happily the stirring of sprouting, growing plants moves within us a feeling of newness — renewal. While, practically, these things are not types of the promise, poetically they are. It's the promise which counts — old things discarded, new and everlasting things to replace them, It was in the spring that the greatest of ancient promises was fulfilled — Jesus Christ, the Lord God, was resurrected. Plainly in the scriptures it was foretold, but somehow no one could imagine how it could be. In the midst of imaginative contemplation, men and women, while warned, could not picture its meaning. So utterly simple was it that none was prepared to believe what had taken place. The Lord risen? Impossible! Yet the exciting story of Mary galvanized two of the apostles into immediate action. John, the younger and more agile, reached the tomb first. There it was in simple emptiness. Could the body of the Lord have been stolen? As though anticipating the thought, a witness had been given. An angel of the Lord had been at the sepulchre and told the women: Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. He is not here for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. Page 212 The women told the apostles what the angel had said. We do not know by what power the Lord Jesus Christ was raised from the dead, but we do know that he had complete control of that power. He had power to die, and he had power to reunite with his body, now immortalized forever. Fortunately for us, the restoration, long predicted by the prophets, was begun in our times. We know the resurrection was literal; that it happened; that it was a reuniting of the spirit — manlike in form — with its earthly body; and that the risen Lord bore his own testimony of the fact. His appearance in 1820 with his Holy Father (the Father bearing witness of his identity) established the fact of his ancient resurrection and gives us, who believe, renewed hope. Time and apostasy — men left to ponder without inspiration for the meaning of inspired words and acts — served to confuse the further purposes of the Father. Left to their own resources, many men contributed ideas as to what God is like, and his purposes toward us. 'These were purely the conceptions of men of earth who had no way of knowing the entire truth. Using their reason, they pictured from the available scripture doctrines which are briefly listed below: 1. There is life after death. 2. There is a world of spirits. In this world we are either in hell — Satan in charge — or we are RESURRECTION AND THINGS AFTER in heaven in the presence of God. All based on the proposition that we did or did not confess Christ as our Savior. 3. 'There is a resurrection. Many believe this to be a "spiritual" resurrection, a regeneration somehow which satisfies the doctrine but not the factual reuniting of refined earthly parts with the spint. 4. After the resurrection: Bliss in the presence of God; the kind of bliss is not stated. The belief here is nebulous indeed — as nebulous as is the conception of God himself, UT the resurrection was the literal accomplishment of one of a series of steps for the advancement of men. And the great vision of 1820 given to Joseph Smith was for the re-establishment of the further purposes of the Father and Son. They restored the knowledge not only of the resurrection but of the main reason for the whole creation of the earth: not only to bring us into their presence, but to teach us how we might become like them, to share their glory and their power. How is this to be? How does the Fatherhood of God and the Sonship of Christ apply to us? Fatherhood and Sonship—English words — mean only one thing: family relationship, the eternity of which was made real by the resurrection. In our earthly shells, we are not able to grasp the infinite implications of this great victory over death, unless it be expressed in the finite family. Earthly family life gives pattern and purpose in our effort to know what to expect in the heavenly home. With the resurrection, family relationships can be the means of reaching the final goal. Were we nebulous spirits we 213 could not well understand, but finite, eternal, touchable beings — which we shall be — can be comprehended. What was revealed through Joseph Smith regarding this vital condition? How do we make real the right, the privilege, to enjoy the fruits of the resurrection — eternal life in the presence of the Father and the Son? So anxious is the Lord that we do not forget this great—perhaps greatest—gift to us that he has given as our first test of obedience to his word, an act of symbolism and remembrance. Into the tomb he went; into the waters of baptism go we. Out of the tomb into eternal life he arose; out of the water into newness of life we begin our pilgrimage, cleansed from sin. 'That is our sign of him of acceptance of his principles as our guide. HE place of women in his plans has been nebulous through the ages, but today is made clear. Equally and together, men and women work out their exaltation. The erroneous ideas of separation of the sexes — or sexlessness in heaven — have forever been banished. We know at long last that the one cannot be made perfect without the other. Even as baptism is a symbol of acceptance of his plan — an acknowledgment of his resurrection — so the sealing of a man and a woman is the earthly symbol of a heavenly order which has existed forever. We realize that it is impossible to share his glory alone; that indeed the "man is not without the woman in the Lord." Again, while the marriage — the sealing — is a symbolic act expressing our ardent desire to be like him, 214 yet the road now becomes extremely difficult. We must by our practice prove our earthly ability to live the principle. And so we have the family, the fundamental and everlasting unit which has creative powers; first, of the tabernacles of children; last, of the establishment of worlds for our posterity. Understanding this heavenly order of things, we become humble and anxious. We cry out in the words of those who are smitten with the principle of repentance and longing, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" 'The answer is not found in the stars, it begins as we walk from the marriage altar into our homes. And here the woman assumes her proper place in the power of the Priesthood of the Son of God. MEN go to Priesthood meetings and discuss the principles of the kingdom; they erect mighty structures of wood, brick, and steel to the God of Israel; they tramp the world seeking converts to the kingdom; they wage effective battle against the marketplace -of sin and evil; they wrest from the earth a living. Then each comes home bruised, bleeding, discouraged, to: 1. A clean house, well ordered. Here a symbol of the order and beauty of heaven calms his soul. A flower in a simple vase arranged just so, a white cloth on the table with pleasantly silvered service. As incense ascended from the ancient burning altars to witness the loyalty of man to God, the steaming, wellcooked, well-savored food brings to his nostrils a reminder of her loyalty and her devotion to him who is her protector on earth. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 2. Well-cared for children. Each little face aglow. For in this home the coming home of father is the crowning event of the day. The evening hours carefully preserved and shielded from the world, devoted to watching and assisting these little ones grow into God-fearing and God-loving men and women. But these are not the only reasons for the home. Because, in part, of the bruising in the battle of life, a man does not always keep the objective in sight. He is often blinded by the smoke and heat of the battle, and wavers. Here is seen the great wisdom of God our Father in making a helpmeet, for with her greater intuitive sense, her finer perception, the woman keeps his course in his mind and heart; warms him to his duty, sends him forth each morning like Galahad with the strength of ten because his heart has been purified in the heavenly kingdom of the home she keeps for him. The fundamental knowledge of this great and ennobling responsibility is instinctive in the women, but the detailed skills must be learned. The greatest contribution made to the home and to the family in teaching and learning has been —and always will be—as long as earth rolls toward its destiny, the Relief Society. Foolish is the man who does not allow his wife its many privileges, and vain is the woman who will not drink at the fountain of its helpfulness. In the ordered kingdom of God on earth, the type of heavenly things to come is in our hands. Refusal or neglect of either man or woman to take upon themselves, each his share, can and often does bring to their tastes and nostrils a RESURRECTION AND THINGS AFTER sample of that other kingdom which is of the devil. And the most noticeable and far-reaching failure to gain heaven on earth is when the woman neither understands nor accepts her part in this pilgrimage. She has been labeled the weaker vessel, but 215 armed with the knowledge of her part and place in the kingdom, she has proved to be the re-enforcing steel which holds the eternal order together, which in the final accounting will give fulness of joy and everlasting meaning to the resurrection, Unfoldment Amy Viau Oh, evening, I would go again along Your silent, mellowed path, expectantly; Not of some certain thing, but of all things. And if there be The cool white splendoring from light of moon, I would attend and joyously discern The bordering beauty of my path, nor fret About the turn. And in some evening garden I would pause; For roses still bloom in such shadowed holds; A thousand birds chirp in their homing trees; And peace unfolds. She Gift of Rain Dora Toone Brough The gift of rain—a blessing and delight; It cools the mountain's crest, the burning sand, Revives the drooping blossoms, bathes the trees, And heals for man the dry, drouth-stricken land. Like human tears, the rain falls and relieves; Dissolves and washes ills from God's domain, Bestows sweet comfort, lessens want and fear— Yields gratitude, helps conquer and sustain. The precious rain can lend sublimity Restore man's faith and teach humility. Gi» Teme Adam S. Bennion 1886—1958 Elder Harold B. Lee Of the Council of the Twelve "He lives best, who in his passing, takes up most hearts with him." N Tuesday, February 11, 1958, () when the news of the death of Elder Adam S. Bennion of the Council of the Twelve Apostles was flashed to the world by public press and radio, there was only one heart in the Church, in business circles, among educators and civic leaders, and, as was said at his funeral services, that heart was sad. In a truly remarkable way he had the rare gift of impressing his personality upon everyone with whom he came in contact. Somehow he seemed to have in the wide sweep of his understanding soul, that quality which made him seemingly akin to all the high and the low, the rich and the poor, the young and the old. Among all these, today, there is a great void because our beloved Adam, friend and _ brother, father and husband, business executive, educator, devoted servant and apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ has gone home to "that God who gave him life.' Indeed we feel, as was aptly said of another great soul, that when he went down it was as though a mighty cedar, green with boughs, went down with a great shout upon the hills, and left a lonesome place against the sky. In this brief writing in memoriam to his illustrious name, I have only a brief space to document but a few of the Page 216 ELDER ADAM S. BENNION superb traits in his character which have so endeared him to us and to all who knew him. He had a vision of man's possibilities which few men possess. One day he took some prominent visitors to Temple Square and led them to the southeast corner where there has been preserved one of the earliest pioneer homes, a humble oneroomed log cabin. Standing there with his visitors, he pomted up to the lofty and majestic towers of the Salt Lake Temple and said with impressive reverence: "These were the hardy pioneers, who, while living in ADAM S. BENNION log cabins and mud _ shanties, dreamed of a temple." There you catch a glimpse of the nobility that was in him, a product of one of those log-cabin pioneer families. Reared in a family of five, west of Jordan, by a widowed mother in a humble but hallowed home, he never ceased to dream of a temple for in him was a never-ending thirst for knowledge in order to achieve and to become serviceable in the world of men. His life was an eloquent answer to the defeatist who whines and whimpers at the lack of opportunity or a chance to "make good." He had a genuine, sincere love for all men. It has been well said that "it is onlv the souls who do not love who go empty in this world and that the heart sometimes finds out things that reason cannot" (R. H. Benson). He seemed to have almost a divine quality of feeling another's heartaches and sorrows as though they were his own. Whether it was a friend wrongfully accused, or a business associate suffering from a stark tragedy, or an intimate colleague nursing a deep wound, or an unloved child, it was all the same. In him was an intuitive urge to do something about it and not to just feel sorry — and he did it. Nowhere was this quality of love more beautifully demonstrated than in his own family. His grandchildren will remember their grandfather's "Magic." His athletic sons will recall his cheering them in their contests to give their topmost best and, above all, to be real men. His daughters will ever remember the pattern of their parental home and hie admonitions for them to be like their mother. Most of all his beloved 217 companion, the mother of his children and the sweetheart of all his days, will never forget their lifetime of "oneness" together, nor that last caress when, with voice scarcely audible while his life slowly ebbed away, he murmured his parting endearments. 'Thank God that bond of love does not end with death, for love never dies. "They do not love who do not show their love." Every waking hour it seemed that his joy of life was full because of the loving service he rendered to others. His philosophy of life was rooted in a sublime faith in God and in the mission of the Savior as the Redeemer of the world. 'To him, America was established upon a foundation of divine principles of freedom set forth in the Constitution by God-inspired men. He subscribed wholeheartedly to the dictum of Benjamin Franklin that "They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety." I have often wondered at his popularity as a speaker at conventions of businessmen, bankers, civic leaders, and insurance executives. I believe I found my answer in a profound statement made by the dean of the Harvard School of Business, which to me was in summary the core of this noble man's admonitions to men of high secular attainments: "A man's personal philosophy, his way of looking at the world, and the men and women around him, determine his success as a manager of things and people more than any other factor. His basic attitudes are far more significant than the techniques he uses.... In short, the time may 218 come when an evil man or one who has no clear sense of values simply cannot be an effective admuinistrator." 'The Master's high standard of greatness: "But he that is greatest.. Shall be your servant" was ever his watchword; and the Lord's injunctions: "Follow me, and I will make you fishers (leaders) of men," were the essence of his preachments to men of worldly attainments. Big men delighted to follow a man who never became so mighty in worldly things that he forgot God. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 As an apostle, a special witness of the Lord and Savior of the world, Adam S. Bennion rose to his highest spiritual excellence. Never, I pray, will those who listened to him forget the sublime and_ soul-stirring declaration of his faith with which he closed his mortal life: "I know with all my soul that Jesus Christ was the Redeemer of the world, the Maker of heaven and earth, and the first fruits of them that slept in their graves." Portico Ke) Beauty Leslie Savage Clark I have so dearly loved this earth, With spring's first tight-curled frond, With autumn's wedge of migrant geese Above an ice-rimmed pond. But when I leave the stars, the dawn, The rainbow's transient sheen, Such splendor as he promises "Eye hath not seen." Though they be lost—the pine tree's harp, The surf, the song of bird, The mighty symphonies to come "Ear hath not heard." For, surely, he who made, for time, Both sea and white-winged gull, Will make eternity's bright world Still more beautiful! Pearle 71. Olsen Appointed to General Board Josie B. Bay Member, General Board of Relief Society PEARLE M. OLSEN ON February 19, 1958, Pearle Madsen Olsen was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Sister Olsen comes to the position highly qualified to act in this capacity, having served Relief Society as a theology class leader twelve years; social science class leader three years and, in 1942, she was called to serve as second counselor in the North Sanpete Stake Relief Society. One year later she became the stake Relief Society president where she served faithfully for six years. Of her Relief Society work Sister Olsen says, "Those were happy years filled with entiched experiences." Sister Olsen's philosophy — has always been to accept every opportunity which came to her to serve the Church. She served as a missionary in the California Mission, and has been a ward organist, genealogy and M. I. A. Teacher and counselor, and received an honorary Golden Gleaner award. Sister Olsen was born in Mount Pleasant, Utah, to John Krause Madsen and Etta Katherine Whitlock. Her mother died when she was two years old. Her father later married Virginia Whitlock, a sister of her mother, and due to her love, guidance, and spiritual influence, Pearle grew to maturity in active Church participation. In addition to her formal education, Sister Olsen also studied at the former McCune School of Music and Art. On November 12, 1924, she was married in the Salt Lake Temple to William Carlyle Olsen who had completed a mission in the Southern States. Brother Olsen is a former stake president of the North Sanpete Stake and is now a member of the Church building department. They are the parents of a son and two daughters: John K. M. Olsen, Billye Virginia (Mrs. E. G. Jenkins), and Elizabeth Carlyle (Mrs. Robert P. Morris). All of the children are actively identified with Church activities. 'There are five grandchildren. Sister Olsen is an exceedingly humble person with a sweet spirit and a contrite heart. She is a devoted wife and mother, self sacrificing, gentle and kind, and this gentle kindness has endeared her to her many friends and associates. Her many experiences, her desire to succeed, and her willingness to work, will make Sister Olsen a_ valued member of the General Board. Page 219 Mlargaret bla SI' Poterson Appointed to General (Board Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society ELSA T. PETERSON MARGARET Elsa 'Thompson Peterson was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on February 19, 1958. She was born in Logan, Utah, and was reared in a home of culture and refinement. Her father was Alvin Hemingway Thompson, and her mother was Lillian Hyde Miner Thompson, a granddaughter of Orson Hyde. Elsa earned her A. B. Degree, with a major in history, at the University of California in Berkeley. Graduate work was done at Columbia University in New York City, gaining for her a Master's degree and, at the same time, a teacher's certificate from the Teacher's College division of Columbia. Along with Elsa's years of academic training, she studied the piano and is an excellent musician. Elsa Thompson married in the Logan 'Temple, William Overn PeterPage 220 son, Professor of Music and head of the piano department at the University of Utah. The talented couple moved to Salt Lake City. To them were born three sons: Clayne, Jared, and Grant. Each has distinguished himself in scholastic training and Church activities. Brother Peterson died very unexpectedly in 1951 and for the last seven years Sister Peterson has reared her boys alone. She assumed her responsibility and has never allowed defeat or discouragement to enter her home. Sister Peterson has had the advantage of extensive travel in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and Hawaii. Her training and experience have given her a great appreciation for her Heavenly Father's children. She has always been active in some phase of Church work. Her most recent position has been president of the Yale Second Ward Relief Society. Her excellence in that position is truly exemplary. Of her, her bishop, John S. Boyden, says: "Although Sister Peterson worked with efficient smoothness, the outstanding characteristic of her administration was evidenced by the love and compassion with which each errand of mercy was fulfilled or each message of joy conveyed." Sister Peterson not only has a strong testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, she lives it and will give understanding service and devotion to her new calling as a General Board member. Drene B. Woodford Appointed to General Board Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer, Relief Society IRENE B. WOODFORD RENE Briggs Woodford, a convert to the Church and a native of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, was appointed a member of the Relief Society General Board on February 19, 1958. She was born of English and Welsh parentage, being the daughter of George and Jessie Kemble Briggs. Her father died when Irene was only eighteen months old and her mother when she was seventeen. In her early youth she was taught good Christian principles by her mother. She started school in Cardiff, Wales, where she lived for two years. Upon completion of her education in Alberta, she taught in the public and high schools of that Province. It was in February of 1943 that she first heard the gospel, immediately recognized its truth, and was baptized only four months later. In September of 1944 her youthful desire to be a missionary was realized when she was called to serve in the Canadian Mission. Since her acceptance of the gospel, Sister Woodford's devotion and service to the Church have ever claimed first place in all her activities. She is a student of the gospel, a gifted speaker, capable teacher, and influential leader. Her unquenchable quest for knowledge led to her obtaining B. A. And M. A. Degrees in archaeology from the Brigham Young University, where she later became a member of the faculty. On June 16, 1950, she was married in the Salt Lake Temple to Hugh J. Woodford, a native of Australia. 'The Woodfords returned about a year ago from Hawaii where Brother Woodford was teaching in the Church College of Hawaii at Laie. While there they both served as missionaries on the temple grounds and also were temple workers. Sister Woodford's experience in Church work also includes teaching in Relief Society, Sunday School, Genealogy, and Seminary, and service on Relief Society and Sunday School stake boards. At the time of her appointment, she was second counselor in the Relief Society of the T'wenty-first Ward, Emigration Stake. With her experience, service, training, faith in the Lord, deep humility, and firm testimony of the gospel, Sister Woodford is well qualified for this broader opportunity for service in the Church to which she has dedicated her all, Page 221 — he Tongan Nlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Tongan Mission was founded in July 1891, when two elders from the Samoan Mission, Brigham Smoot and Alva J. Butler, were sent to Nukualofa to begin the work of proselyting. On the first trip a native Tongan from Samoa accompanied them. At Nukualofa they visited the king of the Tongan people, Jiaoji Tubou, and received from him permission to preach the gospel to the natives. 'They also secured a small tract of land in the village of Mua, on the island of Tongatabu, on which they erected a suitable mission home. This home was dedicated by Elder Smoot on May 15, 1892. The two elders also purchased a small boat, thirteen feet long, in which they could visit adjacent islands. The islands were divided into three groups, Tongatabu, Haapai, and Vavau. Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, visited the Tongan Mission in 1895, while making a trip to the Pacific missions and gathering facts pertaining to their history. On account of the meager results obtained by the early missionaries Photograph submitted by Sylvia R. Stone BLOW HOLES ON THE COAST OF TONGA Page 222 THE TONGAN MISSION 223 Photograph submitted by Sylvia R. Stone PALACE OF THE QUEEN, TONGA to the Tongan Islands, it was thought advisable by the First Presidency, in 1897, temporarily to discontinue missionary work. Ten years later, in 1907, the Tongan Mission was reopened, with Willard L. Smith as president. A new mission home was built; the headquarters was established at Nukualofa; schools were erected on several of the islands, and small branches of the Church were organized. Missionary work was further stimulated in 1921 by an official visit to thet Tongan Mission of Elder David O. McKay of the Council of the 'Twelve, who was making a world tour of the missions of the Church, accompanied by Elder Hugh J. Cannon. The membership of the Tongan Mission was given in December 1930, aS 1,232. In October 1957, there were 4,439 members in the mission, located in fifty-one branches. Fred W. Stone is serving as the mission president. Forty-two Relief Society organizations, with 702 members, were reported in December 1957. Sylvia R. Stone presides over the 'Tongan Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, Liahona College, Tonga, was submitted by Elder Edward O. Anderson, one of the Church architects. See also "Recipes I'rom the Tongan Mission," by Sylvia R. Stone, page 247. To Be a Queen Myrtle M. Dean OR a short, wonderful time this morning Nancy had felt happiness. She felt it from the crown of her golden head to the tips of her toes, which skipped along as light as thistledown. She had walked from the bus stop in the early morning sunshine, to the civic auditorium, where she would meet all of the girls who were running for queen of the Days of Fortyseven. Nancy had been chosen to represent her town. Rosedale was just a little place, but she was glad that she could represent them in such a grand affair. But now all the happiness had gone out of her face, and her feet felt heavy and leaden. She felt alone.... She felt alone even though all the other girls were here. She was a remote little figure sitting here with all of these pretty, vivacious, and confident would-be queens. Before this morning, Nancy had never thought that to run in a queen contest could be anything but a very wonderful experience. There were queens for so many occasions nowadays; queens for so many events every year, in every town and state and country. She had always looked on with awe, admiring the beauty of the girls and the loveliness of their dresses. She had never dreamed of being in the running herself. Now she found that there was much more than excitement, suspense, and thrills. 'There were pettiness and envy and unhappiness. This morning the girls were to go to the auditorium for a final briefing. 'They must report what their talent performance would be. Even Page 224 now, Nancy was not sure what she would do, though she had tried so hard to decide. She played the piano and did a little vocal solo work in high school programs, but she knew she would not stand a chance in music against all the near professional talent there would be. It will have to be a classic reading. But what will I give? Nancy thought. She heard the happy, excited voices of the girls as she came near the entrance of the auditorium. There began to be a frightened feeling in the pit of her stomach. She decided to go to the ladies lounge and smooth her hair and straighten her dress. She looked into the mirror, and there was happiness in her eyes. It was so wonderful that she was one of the chosen girls, for the first time in her life. She was about to go in to the others, when she was sure she heard her name spoken. She _ peeked around the corner of the door. A group of girls stood at one side of the room talking. She could not help hearing what they said. The light went out of her morning, and a heavy weight came into her chest as she listened. "Where did that girl, Nancy Bailey come from? She must be out from the sticks some place." It was Isabel Blake who spoke. "Must be short of material down where she's from,' someone else said. Deep color flooded Nancy's cheeks, and there was a chill in her body. Why did I ever come here? Why did I think that I could run for queen against all of these sophisti- TO BE A QUEEN cated girls? Many of them have been queens before. Grandma Bailey was so anxious that I try. It is her fault that I am here. Nancy felt sick inside. Then she heard a more friendly voice say, "One of the requirements is to be a good Latterday Saint girl. I'm sure Nancy must be that." ptt slip away, and no one will know that I have been here. I'll say that I was ill and couldn't come. Nancy's thoughts raced on miserably. She was about to turn to go. She thought of Grandma Bailey. I can't stop now. Then someone came up to the door. It was Mr. Gale, one of the committee. He said, "We are about ready to begin. Come on in, Miss Bailey." The chattering and smiles of the girls ceased as Nancy entered. They looked at each other slightly confused. Nancy hoped that they would not know that she had heard. She tried to smile. Many other girls were coming in now, and attention was drawn from her. The girls all questioned each other. "What is your dress like? How will you wear your hair?" "There are some girls with style here all right. Are you afraid?" Nancy heard Jane Parker ask Isabel Blake. "Oh, I've won over cute girls before," Nancy heard Isabel answer. Isabel had been queen on many occasions, Nancy knew. "It takes more than cuteness and style in this race," Jane Parker reminded Isabel. Isabel turned to Nancy now, "What will your talent performance be?" she asked. "Well, ''m not really sure." Nancy was ashamed and miserable. Why 225 did Isabel have to ask her? Soon she would have to tell the committee what it would be. Isabel looked at her "Don't know for sure!" claimed. Amazed. She exHREE of the committee were there. They were pleasant and treated the girls with equal consideration. They tried to make each one feel comfortably at ease. Mr. Brown, the head of the committee, asked questions and took all of the information down. Most of the girls answered his questions with confidence, but Nancy felt no sureness, and was still wondering what she would tell him. Jane Parker said that she would give an act from Shakespeare's King Lear. Mary Dally was going to sing a famous aria. Iris Layton would play a selection from Bach. On, and on, the girls all told what they would do; surely — confidently. Nancy knew that her turn was coming right after Isabel Blake's. She listened closely, and hoped that Isabel's performance would be in the music class. I couldn't bear to give a dramatic reading if Isabel gives one, she thought. Her heart sank as she heard Isabel tell Mr. Brown, "I shall do an extract from Anne of a Thousand Days." Isabel sat up very straight and spoke very confidently. Nancy shrank a little farther down in her seat as she thought of performing right after Isabel in a dramatic reading. She straightened in her chair as she saw Mr. Brown at her side. "What is your performance, Miss Bailey?" Mr. Brown smiled down at her. She wanted her voice to sound 226 confident as the others had. She cleared her throat and_ hesitated. Nancy knew whatever she told him she could not change. "I think I Shall do.... I think I shall give some quotations from the prophets," she said. In her own ears her voice sounded hollow and weak. Again Mr. Brown smiled and said, as he had to each of the others, "That is acceptable." He wrote her entry after Isabel's. Nancy left the auditorium confused and hurt. She hardly knew what she should do. She didn't want to disappoint Grandma Bailey. It was sweet of her to think I should try for the queen contest, but now I wish I hadn't entered, she told herself. GRANDMOTHER Bailey had first mentioned it one morning when Nancy had taken the morning paper for her to read. There were pictures in the paper that morning of many girls who were running for queen of Days of Forty-Seven. Above the picture it read: "Still time for more entries." "Why don't you run for queen, Nancy?" Grandma Bailey had asked as casually as though it were a very usual thing.: Nancy had laughed in surprise. "Me—run for queen? Why this is for the whole State. I'd never even run for Rosedale." "We never get to be a thing for which we don't try," her grandma said. "You know there will be near professional talent, and, besides, 'm no beauty, you know." Nancy thought to turn it off lightly. It left her breathless even to think of it. "I'm no beauty either," Grandmother Bailey laughed, "but I was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 queen of Days of Forty-Seven once, long ago. This contest is different from others." Nancy saw the love and admiration shining in her grandma's eyes. She knew she was remembering that Nancy had a three-year perfect attendance record at Sunday School and sacrament meetings. Those things won't be known to the judges, Nancy thought. If grandma were a judge I would surely win. Finally, her grandmother's persuasive tongue had won, and Nancy was in the running. But Nancy had never thought it would turn this way, with the other girls' unkindnesses. Nancy had another big worry, too. It was about a dress to wear for the final night of the contest. She had heard the girls talking about their dresses and they sounded so wonderful. "IT want you to look as nice as any of the girls," her mother had said. "But father can't afford to buy dresses as fine as those Isabel Blake and Jane Parker will wear. I wouldn't want him to. Something simple will be more appropriate on me." Nancy knew it would be a sacrifice for her parents to get all the things she would need. It was Grandma Bailey who came up with an idea. At first Nancy thought the idea a very queer one. She hated to hurt Grandma Bailey's feelings, but when she suggested that Nancy wear the very same dress that she herself had worn for Days of Forty-Seven queen, Nancy's heart sank low. She knew that some way she must change her grandmother's mind. "It is so sweet of you," Nancy said, "but I couldn't think of wear- TO BE A QUEEN ing your dress that you have treasured all these years." Grandma Bailey took Nancy's arm and led her to the old chest in the corner of her room. "You know your Grandpa Bailey always said that you were going to be just like me, Nancy. 'That you were like I was when he first saw me. I'm sure the dress will fit you perfectly. If grandpa were here he would be very proud to see you in my dress." She slowly unwrapped the dress from the folds of tissue paper. She shook it out and smoothed it lovyingly. The loveliness of the dress that her grandmother held up to her brought a delighted exclamation from Nancy's lips. Why, Grandma, it is so beautiful," she said. She had expected to see an old-fashioned affair that would be incongruous to wear for so important an occasion. "Any gitl would be proud to wear this dress," she said, and kissed her grandmother fondly on the cheek. RANDMA Bailey looked very pleased as she went on to speak, "The material for this dress came over the seas from England and across the plains in my own grandmother's trunk. She always said she was saving it for a very important occasion. When I was chosen to be queen, she said, "That is what the blue satin brocade is for. To make a queen dress for our little Sarah.' I was the oldest granddaughter, you know." Grandma Bailey's eyes were a little misty as she said, "I thought it was such a lovely dress, and folks said that I made a pretty queen." Nancy smiled as she thought what a pretty girl Grandmother Bailey 227 must have been. For a long moment she sat quietly watching the little old lady as she dreamily fondled the dress. Nancy wondered what the older grandma was like who had so carefully brought the material so far, and had given it to Grandma Bailey. "You have a fine heritage, Nancy. Your foreparents made great sacrifices for what they believed. 'They had goodness and courage and faith." "Grandma, I am very proud of them, and of you. 'Thanks so much for letting me wear your precious dress. I will try to be worthy to wear it," Nancy had said. HEN the final night of the contest arrived, Nancy sat with tenseness in her body, her hands clasped tightly in her lap, and her heart pounded fiercely. 'There were many there to hear their performances, for the public was invited. Nancy knew that all these people would be judging them in their minds, though there were three official judges. 'The committee had asked that there be no applause from the audience. 'They wanted the judges to judge strictly by the rules given them. Mary Ross was giving a piano selection now. Her white, dainty fingers flew over the keys like fairy spirits dancing in a meadow. One after another, the girls were called to do their parts. 'Their performances were wonderful. Now Nancy watched Isabel Blake glide across the platform. Isabel's dress swept out in graceful billows about her. It was a pale pink, a lovely material with silver shining threads running through it. She wore a brilliant 228 necklace and bracelet that shone with a thousand sparkling lights. Everyone drew a deep breath of approval as Isabel stood to speak. Her deep, mellow voice forcefully portrayed the deep feeling of Anne Boleyn in her speech to Henry the VIII, before Anne's death. Now Isabel was smiling in her charming way, as she finished her reading and glided across the stage like a graceful nymph. Talent, poise, personality, intelligence, charm, and facial and figure beauty; those are the things that are a part of the rules, Nancy thought as she watched Isabel. Isabel has them all. The judges will never know that she can be so unkind. She is sure to win. Nancy heard her own name called now. She knew that somehow she must arise and walk across the stage. She must stand and give her performance. She tried to think of all the things that her Grandmother Bailey had said to her. "Hold your head high, and walk with humble pride, Nancy. You have a heritage of which you may be proud. Your forebears had goodness and courage and faith." As she moved across the platform she kept repeating to herself, "Goodness, courage, faith." She knew that her parents were there someplace and Grandma Bailey would be with them. As her eyes searched the faces before her, she saw them, and Grandma Bailey was smiling and nodding approval of her. The people were smiling, too. She thought, they like my dress. The dress was full-skirted and fell in graceful folds; the bodice was close fitting, and about the neck RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 and sleeves were ruffles of soft, creamy lace. The ice-blue satin brocade set off Nancy's soft skin. NANCY looked _ straight into Grandmother Bailey's eyes, and assurance seemed to come into her. "I shall give quotations from the prophets, Isaiah, Joseph Smith, and Brigham Young," she announced proudly. And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths.... Nancy's eyes swept over the audience. There was a shining in her eyes and a gratefulness, for she knew that these prophecies were being fulfilled. The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.... And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water.... Nancy smiled. She was seeing the lovely little town which was her home, which had been desert country. Now there were running streams and many flowers. For a moment she paused before going on to give Joseph Smith's prophecy, that the saints would be persecuted and driven to the Rocky Mountains, and would build cities and there become a mighty people. Slowly, deliberately she spoke. With intense feeling she gave a picture of the many who had been led to this lovely, mountain home. Then she finished with TO BE A QUEEN the prophetic words of Brigham Young when he said, "This is the place." Then, finally, his words again as he stood on the land, and said, "This is the site for the temple of our God." Nancy raised her eyes now, as though she were looking at the golden angel on the high pinnacle of the great temple that Brigham Young had spoken of. Nancy was not thinking now of being a queen. She was seeing people in slow little ships crossing dangerous seas. She was watching weary saints plod day after day across the prairies and deserts and mountains. Many in the congregation were watching, too, a scene of their loved foreparents who had made great sacrifices to make the fulfillment of these prophesies possible. As Nancy looked down to the audience, she saw Isabel and Jane sitting with their eyes steadily watching her. 'Their faces were as solemn as the others. 'To Nancy there came a sudden feeling of kindness for Isabel. One of the judges soon came to the stage to announce the decision. He looked down at the row of girls before him. 'There was a seriousness in his face as he spoke. "We have reached a unanimous decision, although it has been a very difficult one," he said. "There are so many lovely girls, and much noteworthy talent, yet we have several good reasons for our choice of our queen." HE girls moved restlessly in their seats and watched intently, anxiously, waiting for the names to be given. "T will give you some reasons for 289 our decision," the judge began. "First, for the choice of selection of subject matter so appropriate to the occasion of the Days of FortySeven; next the presentation was so sincerely given, with its wide appeal to all of us; another reason, is the dress befitting the event, and so graciously worn by a modest and charming Latter-day Saint girl." 'The judge hesitated a moment and smiled as he went on, "We are proud to announce that Nancy Bailey is our new queen for Days of Forty-Seven." To be a queen had meant so many things to Nancy before she was one, but now she found what the true meaning really was. The judge had said some of the things. These were the things that Grandma Bailey had been trying to make her see and feel. Humbly and gratefully now, Nancy accepted the honor. As she expressed her thanks, she said, "It is Grandma Bailey who is really a queen once more. I never could have won without her. Once, years ago, Grandmother Bailey stood as a queen in this very dress that I now wear. I only hope that I can be as lovely a queen as she." Isabel Blake and Jane Parker were named to be Nancy's two attendants. Nancy was startled and a fear went through her. She was sure neither Isabel nor Jane would want to be her attendant. But quickly the two girls hurried over to her. Nancy knew they were sincere when they told her, "Oh, Nancy. You were wonderful. We are so happy that you were chosen the queen. We are proud to attend you." Luoma Photos TULIP GARDEN Color in the Borders Dorthea N. Newbold Garden Editor, Deseret News - Salt Lake Telegram Ws we begin to garden, it is with the desire to create something beautiful, to improve our bit of land, to satisfy the urge to take soil and seeds and, along with the sun and water, make something out of them. The garden we picture in our minds has borders full of blooms throughout the season—and, of course, there are never any weeds to mar that picture, nor are there any bugs or plant diseases or soil problems. The desire to have a garden full of color throughout the growing season presents quite a challenge. It takes much planning and planting, Page 230 changing about and searching for new ideas and for new combinations of plants. But each new season allows us an opportunity to begin all over again — an opportunity to improve our work. To begin with, it adds to the meaning of "garden," if it is enclosed. 'The enclosure can be of wood, or bricks, cement walls, or a wire fence with shrubs planted in front of it. Or perhaps, best of all, a wall of shrubs or evergreens to enclose the gardened area. Flowers do not show off to their best advantage when left to grow without any background at all. 'They need a COLOR IN THE BORDERS background, and the green shrubbery provides the ideal setting for them. In planning your garden make the borders wide to include the background of foliage. It is a difficult problem to use three feet of space and have color at all times throughout the growing season. Where you have strips of ground that are just that wide, you might plan to use several kinds of spring-flowering bulbs, and follow their blooming by planting a crop of annual plants for color beginning in July. Use several peony plants. 'Their foliage will remain attractive throughout the re mainder of the season. But to get back to the width of your main borders. Allow six to eight feet for the width of the borders. If your shrubs are planted in groupings of three or five, they will provide interesting bays and nooks for you to plant. Then, too, with the shrubs planted in groupings, the border will never be monotonous, but always interesting and intriWard Linton GLADIOLI 231 Ward Linton SULPHUR PHOENIX NARCISSUS guing. Before beginning to plant your wide borders, take the time to place a few stepping stones or large flat rocks about four or five feet back from the front edge of the borders. These will be your working islands when all the plants are in. You will find them very convenient. The general rule is: tall plants in the back, medium growers in the center, with the shorter plants in the front sections. 'That is a good guide to follow, but the first thing we suggest is to break that rule by planting spring-flowering bulbs in all sections of the border. It is true that spring-flowering bulbs must be planted in the fall, but dunng the spring you can make your plans and selections of stock. By~ planting bulbs in all sections of the border, they will make a marvelous display. Don't forget to plant plenty of bulbs under Fis shrubs. When the leaves of the shrubs are out full, there are few plants that will survive 232 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 Ward Linton NEURINE — ORIENTAL AMARYLLIS in the shade, and usually the ground is bare. If bulbs are planted under them, they will flower before the leaves of the shrubs appear. The dying foliage of bulbs is not a pretty sight, and many gardeners cut it away from the ei little realizing that those leaves are producing the energy that will be stored in the bulbs for next year's flowers. Don't let that foliage" worry you. The perennials of all kinds in the borders will soon hide the bulb foliage. AKE careful selections of the varieties of bulbs you plant. Don't ignore those early -blooming varieties. Snowdrops, crocus, grape hyacinth, and scillas bloom before the daffodils. Secure a good catalogue and make selections of varieties of daffodils. 'Then along come the tulips, and from the earliest part of the spring until the last of May, Ward Linton JAPANESE IRIS we can enjoy tulips in bloom. We are only limited by what we can afford to spend for bulbs. Then comes the iris season. Hybridizers have accomplished a great deal with iris, and the newest varieties are a thrilling addition to the garden. One is forced to use some restraint, else the garden would be too full of iris, leaving the area looking pretty dull when their season is past. Select a few of the very best moderately priced plants by visiting the big fields when the iris are in full flower. Early summer is regarded now as mainly iris time, but don't forget to use at least a few of those favorites of yesterday — such as sweet Williams (actually a biennial), any of the new improved daisies, veronicas, and oriental poppies. The new oriental poppies are lovely, and though their blooming period is short, the garden is much richer with their appearance. Delphiniums COLOR IN THE BORDERS and daisies make lovely cutting material. Plant most of these perennials in the center sections of the border. Used in groupings through the garden, they will reappear ec: ich succeeding year and produce an adance of bloom which will delight the gardener, and yet require only a minimum of care. Before we leave the carly summertime perennials, let's look long at the beauteous spires of delphiniums. In some sections of our country they are difficult to grow, but when we see their peeutifal blue spires we know that any trouble we have had to produce them has been worth it. We can plant them in groups toward the back sections of the border, and preferably against a setting of lilac bushes. The foli age of the lilac enhances the beauty a the delphiniums. Day lilies, long ago banished to the roadside, have been staging a strong comeback. And they are proving themselves to be a welcome Ward Linton POPPIES 233 Ward Linton TIGER LILY addition to the garden. They will thrive well in any climate, in any tvpe of soil, and under most conditions. The flowers of the day lies stand tall above their fountain-like foliage. Fresh blooms open daily— that's how they got their name. The new varieties recently developed have large flowers of a heavy substance. Some have petals that are ruffled and recurved. 'The color range is amazing, from light creams, yellows, and oranges right to purples that are almost black. The substance of the blooms is marvelous— far superior to the older "corn-lily" of grandmother's garden. One of their best features is that they can be depended upon to supply color in the border from springtime until frost. 'They star when the heat of the summer is greatest, and the other plants are forced to slacken their blooming. Even the smallest garden has room for a clump or iw of day lilies. A good catalogue will give you the approximate blooming date of each vy: ariety. Day lilies may be planted in any section of the border because their 234 Willard Luce ROSE. (THE DOCTOR) foliage does not create a problem. It is graceful and attractive all season. WE have not said one word about the lovely roses—about those floribundas or grandifloras. 'These marvelous new plants, produced by skilled hybridizers, bloom all season, beginning at the usual blooming time, and continuing right up to frost. 'There is a slackening off period when the heat of summer ls greatest. Floribundas and grandifloras can be used as border plants toward the back of the borders, and planted in groups of threes. Or they may be used as hedges or in boundary plantings. Any place you plant them, they are simply beautiful. Annuals are the "frosting on the cake." 'They bring masses of color, or ribbons of color. They will finish off the front edge of the beds and borders. Or they can be used to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 cover any bald spots left by disappearing bulb or poppy foliage. 'The new F-1 hybrid petunias—those having very compact plants and a generous crop of big blooms—can_ be used for masses of color anywhere in the garden. They will bloom from early July until frost. 'The lower growing plants, such as violets, lobelias, the alyssums, and the new pigmy marigolds will make ribbon edgings that can tie the garden into a unit. Now we have come up to frost time — without a word about phlox, or about chrysanthemums. Phlox, a perennial, is an old standby for the hot weather periods. Beginning to flower when all the other plants are curling up with the heat, it will present a beauty unlike any other plant during the most difficult season. And chrysanthemums! Books have been written about them, and developments are so rapid that the Ward Linton MARIGOLDS COLOR IN THE BORDERS books are soon outdated. For here again the hybridizers have produced wonderful results. Hardiness, floriferousness, good colors, and form have been bred into the flowers, and we now can enjoy chrysanthemums tight up until snow flies. Borders and beds can be a blaze of color for weeks after frost has killed all other plants. Here again the catalogues and the gardens of the specialists will be your guide in making selec tions for purchasing chrysanthemum plants for your garden. There is not a plant that will bloom all season. And after all who would want such a plant? Wouldn't it be tiresome to know, without going out and looking, that the same plant was blooming in September— just as it was in May? It's ever so much more interesting, though re- 235 Ward Linton CHRYSANTHEMUMS quiring more work, to have a variety of plants. Note toa Woodpecker Alice Morrey Bailey Be quiet, please! I know that spring has come As gaily as a circus up the hill, Flaunting gold and red. Suppose your drum Is apropos of tulip's marching dmill, Or the shining green of willow buds, I trust There is an end to it, but doubt the good Of pointing out your voice's piercing thrust Or that your beak was made to peck on wood. I can believe more gentle harbingers, Like downy baby chicks, and tugging kites, And winds that send their scented messengers. I do quite well without your mating fights, Or this hysterical and drumming din Upon a winter-rusted roof of tin! The Apricot Tree Mabel Harmer closely about her shoulders as she stepped out of the cabin door. The wind was sharp — for April. She hurried out to the shed and picked up an armload of wood. Thank goodness, she didn't have to shovel a path through the snow any longer. On the way back she stopped to examine the buds on the apricot tree. Maybe last night's frost hadn't nipped them. It was hard to tell. This was the third tree she had planted, and they were hard to get. It had been the first one to survive at all, and maybe the buds on this one had been frozen so that there would be no fruit this year. She hurried on. Timmie mustn't be left alone for more than a few minutes. His breathing was easier this morning, but he'd had a hard coughing spell in the night. If she could just get that fever broken today he might do all right. She caught a glimpse of a horseman turning into their lane from the road. "Matt Hornsby coming in with the mail. He's been to the store and picked it up along with his own," she told herself. It had to be that. It couldn't be someone coming to get her to take care of his wife. Not today. Not with Timmie so dreadfully sick. It couldn't be. And, if it was, 'Timmie had first call on her time. She went inside and dropped the wood into the box. The boy on the bed looked at her listlessly, his eyes bright with fever. Page 236 J cies drew her shawl more "T'll get you some nice breakfast," she said cheerfully, careful to hide any trace of anxiety. "I've made some good hot mush. There's honey for sweetening, too. That will help you to get well and strong." He showed little interest, but she scooped up a small bowl of mush from the kettle on the hearth and spread it lavishly with honey. She had just started to coax some of it into his half-willing mouth when there was a knock at the door. "Come in," she called, not daring to break off with the feeding to get up. The door opened, and she turned to see young Parley Matheson. Her heart sank. Lutie's time had come. Or maybe it hadn't. The baby was not due for another two or three weeks yet. The young husband's distraught face quickly told her otherwise. He didn't waste any words. "Lutie needs you real bad, Sister 'Thurston. She's been having pains most of the night. I just waited for daylight to tide over. Will you come teal quick? I don't want to leave her alone any longer than I can help. She's scared." Even in her distress Janet half smiled. She knew which one was the most scared when the first baby came. Then the serious, anxious look returned. She forced the last spoonful of food into the boy and stood up. "I can't go," she said shortly. "You can't!" he repeated unbelieving. "Why, you have to come. THE APRICOT TREE Lutie might die. She's awful bad." "Timmie's awful bad, too," said Janet. "I've been up with him all night. I'm afraid he's got pneumonia. He has a high fever. Miles has gone out with the wagon for freight. I'm here alone. I can't leave him." PARLEY rolled his felt hat between his agonized knuckles. "But what'll we do? She's got to have you?" "T can tell you what to do," she replied. "Or, maybe you can get Sister Blackburn. She helped with my three. Lots of babies have been born without my help. Lutie won't die. She's good and strong. I reckon you're a lot more scared than she ist' Parley looked helplessly about. "You bet I'm scared. I couldn't do anything, if both our lives depended on it. And Sister Blackburn is another two miles away. I can't take all that time to go after her." Janet looked out of the window to a little windswept knoll. Her lips were set as she said in a low, determined voice. "There're two little graves out there, Parley. My little girls. Timmie's all I've got left. I can't take a chance on losing him, too. If I can just break this fever today he may be all mght. But I've got to watch him every minute. Lutie isn't in half the danger he is." Parley looked trapped. He drew his coat sleeve across his eyes in a bewildered fashion. Janet went over and pulled her worn brown satchel from underneath the bed. "Take this," she said, "if you decide not to go for 237 Ellie Blackburn. There are scissors and clean cloths and anything else you will need." He reached for it as if in a trance and started towards the door. 'Then he turned and said, "Lutie won't feel safe with Sister Blackburn or anyone but you." Janet stood silent for a moment. "Very well," she said quietly. "I'll go. You stay here and watch 'Timmie. Don't let the fire down for amoment. Bathe his face with cold cloths. And rub his chest with this oil every so often." She started to put on her wraps. The heavy, shapeless coat and the blue fascinator. "T'll have to ride your horse," she said. "Miles has taken ours out for freight." Before putting on her knitted gloves, she went back to the bed and felt Timmie's head. The boy turned fever-bright eyes upon her. She shut her own, unable to bear the pleading, half-scared look in his eyes. She couldn't go. It was asking too much. As if he sensed her wavering, Parley said, "I'll take real good care of him, Sister Thurston. I won't be scared here, like I would be with Lutie. I'll do everything you said." Then he added, "And I'll pray." Janet nodded and stood up. "Be a good boy," she said to 'Timmie. "Mother will be back real soon. I have to get a new baby for Sister Matheson." She pulled on the gloves and went out of the door. The horse stood with his head lowered against the wind. It could snow yet, Janet worried. 'Then there would be frost and the apricot buds would freeze, 238 As she rode along she thought that the countryside had never looked uglier. Later, there would be green in the fields. Now there was only last year's stubble showing through patches of snow. Here and there a bare tree held stark branches towards a gray sky. Her thoughts went back to her former home in Indiana. 'There had been two tall evergreen trees, standing like sentinels on either side of the front door. In April the violets made a purple carpet on the south side of the house. But, most of all, she remembered the lilacs. There was a double row that reached down the lane to the highway. Even now she could close her eyes and smell those lilacs. And still she had never regretted leaving when her faith called. None of the hardships, the lack of beauty, would have mattered if only she could have kept her little girls. And now Timmie was so sick. "Dear God," she prayed, "please let me keep Timmie." The thought flashed through her mind that she ought to be given his life in payment for her willingness to go to Lutie. But she quickly put it aside. She would not attempt to bargain with God. Not even to keep Timmie. The horse quickened his pace as they turned down the lane to the Matheson cabin. There was no smoke coming out of the chimney. She did hope there would be some hot coals left. It was hard to start a blaze without matches. She would be needing a fire for hot water. She put the horse in the barn, drew off the saddle and bridle, and hurried into the cabin, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 Lutie greeted her with a deep sigh of relief. "I thought you'd never get here," she said. "I began to think that something must have happened to Parley on the way, or that maybe you weren't home. Id have died if you hadn't come." "Oh, now, I don't think so," said Janet cheerfully. "Dll get this fire going and make you a cup of hot ginger tea, It's sort of relaxing." Thank goodness there were live coals and enough wood in the box to keep the fire going for some time. "Where's Parley?" asked Lutie anxiously. ""Why didn't he come back with you?" "He couldn't. I was about not to come myself. 'Timmie is real sick. I didn't want to leave him. Miles is out for freight. Someone had to stay." "Tm sorry," said Lutie. "I remember.... It must be terrible to lose a child." "Yes. I guess maybe there isn't anything that's harder to bear. Maybe you'll think youre suffering today. Well, let me tell you, you'd go through it once a week, if you had to, in order to keep them." HE went out for a bucket of water and just as she came in the door Lutie gave a cry of pain. Janet put down the bucket and took hold of her hand. "Just pull as hard as you want," she said. "And cry out if you like. It won't hurt anything and it might help." When the girl had relaxed again Janet busied herself about the cabin. 'There was not much work to be done, but she couldn't just sit. Certainly today, of all days, she couldn't just sit. THE APRICOT TREE "Where are your carpet rags?" she asked. "Under the bed — what few I have. 'There hasn't been much of anything I could spare, so far." Janet brought out the bag. There were nine balls of rags, all sewed together. 'There wasn't a scrap of extra cloth. She slipped off one of her underskirts and began cutting it into long strips. When Lutie gave a cry of protest, she said briskly, "This has been patched until you can't tell which was the original stuff, anyway, so I might as well cut it up." Actually it wasn't quite that bad. It was no worse than the other two she was wearing, but she had to do something. She couldn't just sit there and worry. While she was cutting she kept up a stream of talk with Lutie. It helped both of them. In between times she held the girl's hands when the pains came, or rather let Lutie hold hers. HE day dragged slowly on. There was no clock in the cabin, but Janet knew that hours had passed. Great, long, seemingly endless hours. She wondered if it could possibly seem as long, even to the suffering girl on the bed, as it did to her. Would Parley be able to do anything at all? Maybe she should have left more instructions. But what? Could anyone cope with it, if it got any worse? "Is it this bad for everyone?" Lutie asked as Janet wiped the perspiration from her forehead. "Mostly. Some are worse. You're coming along fine and natural like. You haven't got one thing to worry about." 239 "All those millions of babies born in the world. It doesn't seem possible that each one could have cost so much." "No, but they have. More or less." "T've heard women say that you forget the pain afterwards. I'll never, never forget this," she said through clenched teeth. "No, honey," Janet soothed, "you won't forget it. But you won't mind, either. If it were ten times as bad, you'd still be glad, once you get your baby in your arms. 'That's all that matters." 'To herself she added, Get them and keep them. That matters, too. 'That matters more than anything. The time finally came when she put down the carpet rags to give all of her attention to the girl. The baby was born, announcing its arrival into the world with a loud wail of protest. "It's a girl, A beautiful little girl," said Janet triumphantly. "I'll bet she'll weigh a good seven pounds. Maybe seven and a half. And will you look at all that black hair!" Lutie looked at her baby with such joy and pride that Janet fell a lump in her throat, although she had witnessed that same glow a hundred times. After she had done all that she could for the mother, she dressed the baby in the soft new clothes and put her in the crib. 'Then she said, "I'll have to go. Parley will be back here before long." Lutie, who was already dozing, roused herself enough to murmur, "Yes, you must go. Parley will be real worried." Janet smiled. No need to retort That ls, 240 that Parley was the least of her own worries. Anyway, there was no doubt that st had been a long, hard day for him, too. She went out to the barn and put the saddle on the horse. Reluctantly he started down the lane. "T know you hate leaving home," she said, "so did I. I hated it a lot worse than you do. But it can't be helped. There are times when you have to go." The horse paid no attention and, try as she would, she could only occasionally coax him into anything more than a mere walk. He would slow down the instant she quit prodding him. HE had gone a little more than halfway when the horse stepped into a chuckhole, throwing her violently forward. By the time she had recovered her position and urged the horse onward a few steps, she discovered that he was lame. It was still another two miles to her cabin, but she couldn't ride a lame horse. She dismounted and __ looked about. The Hemstead_cabin was the only one nearby. Should she go over there and try to borrow a horse, or simply walk on home? She wasn't even sure that the Hemsteads had a horse. Not everyone did. It was at least a quarter of a mile to the cabin. If she went up there and couldn't get a horse, she'd have lost all that time and would still have to walk home. She took a dozen steps and stopped. She had forgotten about Parley. It would take him hours _ to walk the five miles back to his cabin. Lutie and the baby were RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 alone. The fire would be out. Lutie would be scared to death. She turned and walked swiftly to the Hemstead cabin. — "Why Janet Thurston!" cried Sister Hemstead. "What a sight for sore eyes you are! Do come in. I have some hot cinnamon rolls I just made." The room was warm and cozy. The cinnamon rolls smelled heavenly. Janet dropped into a chair. "I can't stay. I only wish I could. I've just put Lutie Matheson to bed with a baby girl. Parley's at my place with Timmie. He's real sick. I have to get back as soon as I can." "Tm awfully sorry," murmured Selma. "Can we help?" It reminded Janet that she hadn't explained why she had come. "Parley's horse has gone lame. I turned him loose to go back home. Do you have one that I could borrow?" "Sure, we do. How about Arne hitching up the wagon and taking you? You must be pretty tired by now. Janet shook her head. "Just the horse, please. I could go faster that way." "Then I will call Arne to put on the saddle. And you take some of these rolls for you and Timmie to eat when you are home again." "Thank you," said Janet. "You're very kind." NCE more she was on the road. With the fresh horse, she made good time. He seemed willing to travel as fast as she dared to ride. When she reached home she slipped off, made him fast, and hurried inside. 'The fire was low. THE APRICOT TREE Sprawled in front of it was Parley, fast asleep. At Timmie's "Hey, Ma!" he awakened with a start. "Gosh, I'm sorry," he muttered. "I guess I must have dozed for a minute." Janet was at Timmie's side. She put her hand on his forehead. It felt warm against her chilled palm, but not alarmingly hot. She felt his cheek. "The fever seems to have gone," she said with a deep sigh of thankfulness. "Lutie! What about Lutie?" cried Parley, now fully awake. Janet smiled. "Lutie's fine. You have a beautiful baby girl." Parley was up on his feet. "I did everything you told me. I haven't been asleep very long. I hope he's all right." "He seems to be fine. Don't worty. You'd better get along home now. Your horse went lame. I borrowed one from Hemsteads."' 241 "Thanks," said Parley. 'Thanks for everything. My cow will have a calf soon, I can pay you with that." "['m hungry," said Timmie, as the door shut. "Good, so am I," said Janet. "Ym hungry — and happy. Sister Hemstead gave me some nice, fresh cinnamon rolls. [ll warm up some milk. It will make us a good sup-? Per. She went outside for an armload of wood. The wind had died down and the sweet smell of April was in the air. It wasn't going to snow, after all. 'She stopped long enough to look at the apricot tree again. The buds were swelling with a deep pink. There would be no more frost, she could almost be sure. 'This year there would be blossoms and fruit on the tree. -<- Ynvitation Mabel Jones Gabbott Come with me, bring your book and pen; The lavender wisteria is in bloom; It will not post this scented note again For many months. Ah, such a frail perfume! The bobolinks who stayed with us last year, High in the leafing elm, sing songs of bliss; Were we bequeathed a thousand springtimes here Each would be all too brief on days like this. A wayward breeze will join us now and then, Do come, bright, sun-kissed wings await your pen. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeN OF AxL NATIONS" THE APRIL CONFERENCE: The General Conference of the Church which commenced on April 6, and closed its session on April 10... Was one of the best, if not the very best conference ever held in this valley... Certainly the Saints were fed the bread of life.... The testimonies of prophets and apostles were powerful and impressive.... President Woodruff at the advanced age of ninety-one years standing in the great congregation and bearing testimony day after day... Was a wonderful manifestation of spiritual power. —KEditorial HOW TO BUILD A GRANARY ON NOTHING: The St. George Relief Society was in a quandary... For the thousandth time the subject of the storage of grain had been discussed.... But what was to be done? An inventory of the resources of the Society revealed half a dozen patch-work quilts, some finished, others in course of construction; a few pairs of partly finished stockings and socks, a limited quantity of carpet rags...."But we've got to have a granary," said the officers.... It finally leaked out that we were to have a "Bee"... To which all our husbands and brothers and sons were to be invited.... At least one hundred and seventy-five men and boys with twenty-five good teams and wagons made lively times.... Our granary will have a capacity of two thousand bushels, and we expect to have it ready to receive the wheat at harvest time. —Julia A. Pace, Cor. Sec. SLEEP WELL, BRAVE HEART Sleep well, brave heart, beloved of Christ and crowned, He gives thee sleep. The wide world's love enwraps thy slumber round, God gives thee sleep. His angels smile; His stricken children weep; Yet smiles, nor tears, shall break thy blessed sleep.... —Mary Lowe Dickinson MADAME MELBA: Madame Melba and her grand opera company arrived in the city last night and will appear in the large Tabernacle tonight. 'The Tabernacle choir will also take part in the concert to be given. Madame Melba is an Australian and takes her stage name from the city of Melbourne where she was born. Her birdlike voice has made her famous the world over. —News Note SAN JUAN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Conference convened at Bluff... President Martha Hammond presiding... Said she hoped the Lord would pour out a goodly portion of his spirit on the sisters that we might be blessed and built up... And better qualified for our labors and duties in the future as wives, mothers, and Relief Society workers.... President Kisten Neilson said the Bluff Ward Relief Society was in good condition, the sisters being on hand to donate when necessary and trying to improve and advance in all that is good. President Norah Hammond said the members of the Mancos society attended when possible, but on account of the settlement being scattered it was not possible for mothers of families with small children to attend regularly in the winter season.... President Mary M. Jones reported the Monticello society as being on the improve.... —Evelyn Adams, Sec. Page 242 MARY ME. ELIZABETH JONES is the soft-voiced, full-time director of Milwaukee's Children's Arts Program, the "most enthusiastically supported children's program in its field." Its purpose is to open the world of the arts to children, from five years old to and including high-school age. 'The project is housed in the $2,500,000 Memorial Building, which both serves the living and honors the dead. Classes of many kinds are enjoyed in the mornings, and in the afternoons come the matinees, which bring together art, music, drama, and dance groups. The children come early and stay late—for thirteen dollars a semester. More than 350 women volunteers help make the project a success. MBS. OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, whose serial "Elizabeth's Children," is presently running in The Relief Society Magazine, has another biography published by the Julian Messner Company, as one of the Messner biographical series. Jim Beckwith was a man who became a chief of the Crow Indians. A trapper and fur trader, he discovered Beckwith's Pass between California and the Sierra Nevada Mountains, and founded Pueblo, Colorado. 'The reviews on this book have been very favorable. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon NYA SETON has written a new biography, The Winthrop Woman, detailing the life of Governor Winthrop's niece in the wilderness of New England. The book gives interesting and authentic background material on the history and customs of the time, as well as effective descriptions of the "stern and rockbound coast." DOROTHY THOMPSON in her new mentally, morally, and spiritually invigorating book, The Courage to Be Happy, calls happiness "an inextinguishable sense of gratitude for and to life." Miss Thompson was the first woman to write a successful column on national and international affairs. She has been awarded honorary degrees by eight universities and has been called the "conscience of America." FPREDA DIAMOND, a _ young American industrial designer, has been employed by the Japanese Government as technical adviser to the small and medium-sized industries of Japan. HE American Nurses Association, a member of the International Council of Nurses, has an exchange program that enables its members to work and study abroad. Page 243 CD EDITORIAL 2 VOL. 45 APRIL 1958 'Owe ter Shan a Weawer 5 Shuttle. DEAREST Mom: The things you recalled to my mind in your last letter have really become deep-seated in my heart. How could I have imagined that I could forego Relief Society to accomplish such unimportant things as housecleaning, gardening, or spring sewing, and not miss something important? Thoughts such as these have run through my mind since your letter arrived. "Thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better" (D & C 25:10), "He that endureth to the end," (Mt. 10:22). "My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle"... (Job 7:6). With my aspirations constantly in mind, I have considered the things which are of greatest worth to me. Is scouring my house from attic to cellar more important - (goodness knows it needs cleaning) or preparing the soil for my early flowers, or putting my sweet-pea seeds in the ground of more importance to me than the blessings of Relief Society? My spring hat needs remodeling, and the blue wool you gave me for a new spring suit is anxiously awaiting to be made up. What shall I do—bundle up the baby and go to Relief Society and leave the housecleaning? The amount of work left undone during my hour and a half Page 244 in Relief Society would be negligible. Spring is upon us. Just this morning J noticed the lilac bush in the back yard out in bud. I had planned to skip Relief Society this month and get caught up on my spring work — then in May I could start in afresh for the last month of Relief Society meetings this year. For your suggestions, Mother Dear, I am deeply grateful. Each day, each hour is vitally important and the way we use it even more, so — you showed me just how to fit these tasks into my twenty-four hour day — how to take the time — make the effort — and reap the reward. You reminded me of our oft-recalled statement that it takes more energy to start a motor than it does to keep it running. It is well to place first things first — to place proper emphasis upon the spiritual values of life. Of course one cannot possibly miss Relief Society without losing so much of the finer things of life. How my testimony has grown during the past few years since you first really introduced me to Relief Society. Of course I have always known what you have done for Relief Society, but never did I understand what Relief Society did for you until now.. I used to wonder how I could get the cultural re- EDITORIAL fnement I desired and the education and social opportunities I required, with my three young sons to be cared for while this was being accomplished — little did I dream that all this and added blessings and opportunities would be _— gained through my participation in_ this beloved organization. When I do not attend Relief Society meeting I miss seeing that darling little Sister Cole, each week, and the sweet voice of Jennie, and the wonderful lift I get when working on welfare sewing with Sister James and Barbara (all the young women around here go to Relief Society). I just can't bear to miss the Shakespeare lesson or, in fact, any of the lesson days. After hearing the enlightening discussion on family life and other subjects, I can intelligently converse with Don, during dinner each night. My life pattern has indeed been changed for the better. I've got everything figured out now, Mom. I've planned to get up at seven and get the garden spot ready for planting, before the children awaken, and then I'll take the blue suit to Relief Society and Sister Margetts will help me to get the sleeves in properly. And _ this month they are going to demonstrate how to remodel old hats. The housecleaning can be worked in mornings and evenings — you see I learned through Relief Society how to become a better manager. It really pays to plan — one gets so 245 much more accomplished. I just couldn't miss Relief Society. The wonderful opportunities for service, the advantage of participation, and assimulating the finest literature and music and the personal growth and development one receives, the sweet association that ls afforded us with spiritual, friendly, gracious women, all these are invaluable. The knowledge of the gospel which increases testimonies, and the encouragement we receive to actually practice these teachings and to emulate them in our everyday lives is gratifying. 'These are blessings we can obtain in no other way. We should grasp every opportunity available to learn of the worthwhile things of life, to practice true charity and to teach our children to love the Lord. It is my desire to choose wisely — realizing that sustained effort is most economical — continued interest and active participation in Relief Society bring everlasting joy and satisfaction. It is true that those who place the things of this world above the things of God and the wisdom of eternity have not riches. "Seek not for riches but for wisdom." Mother Dear, I wish every woman, both old and young, could feel as I do about Relief Society, that the glorious advantages of sustained effort bring happiness here and eternal life hereafter. Lovingly, ane —H. W. A. Lt s Smart to Sake Part The Meaning of Membership "Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?" (Romans 2:21) ITHIN the gospel plan a Latter-day Saint of any age or situation in life may find a field of service and receive, in turn, personal fulfillment. Go on any Sabbath to a sacrament meeting in any ward or branch of the Church — in any land — and the treasured evidences of the meaning of active membership are richly demonstrated. Attend a testimony meeting and feel the unity and strength, the faith and humility of the brothers and sisters. 'hough each one speaks from his own heart, the words and emotions are familiar to all — for each has found a way in which he can render helpful service and receive spiritual sustenance from the Lord and from his brethren who rejoice in the same gospel which he accepts and magnifies in his own life. Be present when an infant is given a name and a father's blessing, when a child is confirmed as a member of the Church, when a young man is advanced in the Priesthood, or a young girl becomes a Golden Gleaner. These events are of precious significance to the participating families, but they are also important to all the membership, for everyone shares in the feeling of growth and accomplishment, the seeking for eternal values through progress upon the earth. Each member of the Church who takes part in its work and its blessings not only finds individual growth and development, but rejoices also in the spiritual advancement which comes to the devoted sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father. "We are not divided, all one body we, one in hope and doctrine, one in charity." The tithepayer feels a special exaltation of spirit when he sees the temple spires rising as a testament to faith. He feels that in some small way he is a builder of churches and chapels, he has turned his hand to the work of the Lord. One who sees the storehouses, the farms, the production under the Welfare Plan may feel that he has helped in the establishment of material security in the land. The Relief Society visiting teachers know the value of participation, for as they enter into the homes of the sisters, they give of their love and solicitude, and they receive in return the blessed spirit of sisterly appreciation and affection. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 246 Recipes From the Tongan Mlisston Submitted by Sylvia R. Stone Coconut MILk Break the coconut in half. Scrape out the coconut, using a hakalo (sharp knife) wedged in ground). Squeeze the grated coconut with piece of cloth or coconut fibre to get the milk from it. Vali SratneE (Cooked Bananas) 12 ripe bananas 14 Cc. Water % ¢. Coconut milk Cut the bananas in small pieces about one-half inch. Put in saucepan and add coconut milk and water. Cook for about thirty minutes. This recipe, as well as all others, can be prepared by wrapping in banana leaves and cooking in an umu (oven in the ground). Orart Manco 4 ripe mangoes 1% Cc. Sugar 8 c. Water 3c. Coconut milk Peel and wash mangoes. Scrape into small pieces. Add other ingredients and stir. Serve cold. This is also good with watermelon, pineapple, Jeise (papaya), and other fruits. Toncan PuppInc 2 or 3 breadfruits Sauce: 2 ¢. Coconut milk 2 C. Green coconut water 2 c, sugar Put sugar in saucepan ever fire. Stir all the time until the sugar melts and gets brown. Add other ingredients, stirring until sauce is thick. Cook two or more breadfruits. Peel off skin and mash with spoon. When properly mashed, the breadfruits will look like a dough. Cut in small squares, pour on sauce, and serve. Cooxep Lu % gal. Water 1 onion chopped fine 1% Ibs. Lu (tarrow leaves, the % Ib. Tomatoes small tender ones). 1 tsp. Curry powder other greens good also 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Coconut milk Put lu in boiling water. Add the rest of the ingredicnts and cook until tender. Very good with corn beef added. Most meat, such as chicken, fish, pork, and beef are cooked in coconut milk wrapped in banana leaves and put in the umu. Cooxep Letsr (Papaya) 3 leise %2 tsp. Salt 2 c. Coconut milk 1 small onion Peel leise and cut in little pieces. Chop onion and add salt. Put in coconut milk and cook in slow oven one hour. Page 247 Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check Walter J. Kohler Chairman, Board of Directors, American Cancer Society ANCER is a disease that strikes savagely at both young and old, without regard for class, or rank, or race. And it is a killing disease for a quarter of a million Americans annually. It is dreadful that so common an affliction should be attended by so much anguish and loss. Yet we need not face the menace of cancer with unreasonable fear. Today we know that cancer, if detected and treated in its early stages, is a highly curable disease. 'Today we know that at least half of all cancer patients may be saved if detection and treatment are commenced in time. Today we know our scientists are certain of an ultimate victory over cancer, a victory many authorities believe will come in the not too distant future. The programs of the American Cancer Society are precisely those which have made a decade of remarkable progress in cancer control possible. Research, a program of support for the labors of more than 1,000 leading scientists. Education, a program which round the clock brings the message of early diagnosis to Americans wherever they work and live. Service, a program which strives to bring comfort and relief to cancer patients in need of help. Let us do our part to aid this most worthy of causes. Let us lend our fullest support to the 1958 Cancer Crusade. Give generously! > Sounding Light Maude Rubin I've never seen the thrush And yet I know he's here— His voice writes silver lines on gathering dark; Brings flowering to these aisles Where pines grow spear on spear, A note of singing fire, a sounding spark. My eyes search dimming light Of twilight's wooded park For movement of a feather, shadow-thinned; For living fleck of gray Against gray alder bark... See but a weathered leaf before the wind. Page 248 Ward Linton PEACH ORCHARD NEAR VALYERMO, CALIFORNIA San Gabriel Mountains in the Background Slowering Peach Sree Once only in a year Of seasons do we see This pink miracle Of blossoming tree; Curved, lifted, covered With a perfumed bloom, A picture from my Winter-weary room; Framed by my window, Reflected in my glass, Christie L. Coles A testament of life For all who pass. "A thing of beauty" Catching at the breath, A flowering challenge To November's death; Once only in a year Of bright seasons, full Of beauty, do we see This pink miracle. The Request Ruth M. ITH a clatter and a clang, the \¢ pots and pans fell crashing to the floor just as Mary Lunford came running into the kitchen. With one arm, she swept up the offender, young Michael, grandchild number twenty - one, while with the other she replaced the cooking utensils and closed the cabinet doors. Mary didn't make a habit of babysitting. With six married children living near, that could run into work. And with her ward Relief Society taking up so much of her energy, she just didn't have the time to take on the responsibility of grandchildren. However she didn't mind caring for them once in a while in an emergency, in fact it was fun, and she could nearly always count on Karen, her youngest daughter, to give her a hand. Karen was wonderful with children, but today she had a friend with her and giggling and chattering had made her oblivious to anything else. Sometimes Mary wondered about Karen. Life had been so easy for this beautiful, twenty - year - old, with the fair hair and big brown eyes, especially since they had moved into the new home. What would she do if she had a real sorrow or trouble facing her? How would she react to hardship or poverty? She seemed to have a lot of faith. But would it be as strong in foul weather as in fair? Had they been making life too smooth and enjoyable for this much-younger daughter? Yet, after all, wasn't that Page 250 Ostegar why they had worked so hard all the years, to give their children the good things of life? With the child in her arms, Mary went to the front door to see how the new gardener was doing in the yard. She stood for a moment looking out on the well-kept lawns, the trees, and the flower beds, bathed now in sunshine, with the soft, summer breeze contentedly whispering to the leaves as it sleepily lulled the trees to gentle rest. The feel of the young wiggler in her arms took her back again to the years when the Lunfords were a young couple struggling to build a simple home and rear a family. They had been hard years, but very rewarding. Life had been good to them. Mary was awakened from her reverie by a car pulling into the circular driveway, and was happy to see that it was her daughter Diane, young Michael's mother. "T was longer than I anticipated," she said as she relieved her mother of the smiling, gurgling child who held out his arms. "I hope our mischevious Michael wasn't too much trouble for you." "He was no bother at all," replied her mother. "Now, come inside for a few minutes and get cooled off. You look warm." "Well, I should be going...." "Oh, come on in. I'll get you some cold orange juice." "This is cool and restful," she sighed as she sat down on the couch and relaxed. "What I wouldn't give for an air-conditioned house!" THE REQUEST The mysterious giggling and chattering from Karen's room suddenly seemed to have reached a climax. With a burst of laughter, she and her friend Joan swept smoothly into the living room dressed as for a summer fashion show. "Well, why the fine clothes? Where are you going?" Mrs. Lunford inquired, as she arrived with a tall glass of juice. "Oh, out," Karen replied evasively. And then, putting on her most winsome manner, she asked, "Mother, may I take the new car for awhile?" "The new car? With the old one? You going?" "We thought we'd drive out around the lake and watch the water skiers for a little while." "But why the new car, and the best clothes?" "Yes, whom are you trying to impress?" Diane broke into the conversation, as she busily fussed with Michael, who was demanding his share of her drink. "No one in particular. We just want to have some fun. And that old car is a wreck! It has no glamour!" "Wreck! I wish we had it! It's two years younger than our one and only means of transportation." "Well, may I take it, Mother?" Karen's smile was most captivating. "It's all right with me, if your father doesn't object." "Object to what?" a new voice broke in, as Mr. Lunford emerged from his basement workshop. "We want to use the new car for a little while. May we Daddy dear?" "The new car?" What's wrong And where are 251 "Yes." He hesitated, then, "Why not? That's what it's for I guess," he said. "Here, catch!' And he tossed the keys to his daughter. "But be careful!" "T will, I will! Thank you, Daddy," and with a flashing smile she quickly disappeared through the doorway. "OF all things!" ejaculated Diane. "You're surely spoiling that girl. She just twists you around to suit herself. You give her everything on earth she wants. You certainly didn't bring up the rest of us that way." "Well we saw what a poor job we'd done with the rest of you, so we decided to change our tactics," her father laughed teasingly. And then over his shoulder, "(How about some of that orange juice for me?" "There's plenty of it right in the refrigerator." "But really, Mother,' Diane continued, "how on earth do you expect Karen to marry a boy like Russ Stevens when she's used to everything her little heart desires? She'll demand a thirty thousand dollar home with all the furnishings, a new car every year, and clothes galore! I don't think it's right." "T don't know. Karen's a sweet, sensible girl, and a very unselfish ty) one. "You certainly didn't give us the things you give her. I can't understand why you do it." "We did the best we could for all of you. But you must remember that back in the depression and war days we didn't have the things that we have today." 252 "When will Russ be home from his mission?" "In about a month. He has another week or ten days of missionary work in England, then he wants to take a short tour of the continent before coming home." "And I suppose in spite of being only twenty and not through college she'll want to get married right away?" "Oh, certainly. Don't they all these days? She was suggesting the other day that we go and select her wedding gown." "If they had good sense they'd wait at least until Russ finishes college. Besides, she was just a kid when he left. How does she know they'll even like each other after all these months apart?" Then, quickly changing the subject, Diane added, "I've simply got to be going!" A FEW days later Mary saw the mailman from the kitchen window and went for the mail. "Mother, is there a letter from Russ?" Karen's voice came from the living room where she had been industriously practicing on the electric organ. "No, there doesn't seem to be any. And he's always so faithful." Karen's eyes took on a deep concern as she quickly joined her mother. "Maybe he's sick, or hurt, or something's wrong!" "IT don't imagine so," comforted Mrs. Lunford. "More likely he intrusted the mailing of his letter to another missionary, who put it in his pocket and promptly forgot it. It will probably be here tomorrow." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 But it was a week later, a long, hard, worried week for Karen, before the expected letter arrived. With a cry of joy she quickly opened it and avidly scanned its contents. A moment later her mother heard an exclamation which was somewhere between a cry and a groan, and her daughter dropped down on a nearby ottoman. Her face was pale. Her large, soft eyes gazed unseeingly across the room. The letter lay unheeded on the floor. "Karen," Mary said softly, "is something wrong?" Without a word she pointed to the letter on the floor. Mary picked it up and asked, "Shall I read it?" Karen slowly nodded. Her tearless eyes seemed to be mutely crying out for help, like a wounded pet. Mary read:? Karen Dear, You don't know how hard it is for me to write this letter, but it must be done. For several months now I've had the feeling that we've made a mistake. We're not meant for each other. I love you as a sister, a friend, the little kid next door who has been so sweet and wonderful to me, but not as a mate for life and all eternity. Oh, Karen, I hope you'll not take this too hard. I've prayed and prayed about it, and now I know I'm right. Yes, there is someone else, although I have not yet told her of my intentions, as I felt that I had no right to do so. One of the lady missionaries by the name of Ann Farnsworth, from Los Angeles, has come to mean more and more to me through the months. Although I won't say anything to her while I'm on my mission, I am quite sure from her looks and actions that she feels the same. She is a wonderful girl, and means everything to me, Karen. "IT can't stand the thought of making you unhappy. But I'm sure you'll be sweet and sensible about this, as you always are.... THE REQUEST Well, this is it, Mary thought, not stopping to finish the few short remaining lines of the letter. 'This is the test that I knew had to come to her some day, in one way or another. Aloud she murmured her daughter's name. "Karen." The one simple word expressed all the emotion of her mother heart, love, understanding, concern for the future, and a fierce desire to protect and keep her young from sorrow. 'Tears sprang to her eyes as she sank to her knees, and her arms enveloped her daughter in a gesture of comfort. UT Karen's eyes were dry. Almost calmly she pulled away from her mother and arose. All her life the girl had made a confidant of her mother, and had always come running for consolation and _ solace whether her grief was real or imagined. Now Mary knew that her comforting arms were not enough. This was something Karen had to meet and conquer by herself. "Let's not talk about it now, Mother. I want to think." Taut and trembling, she walked to her room, where she sat miserable but tearless, gazing out of the window. Oh, if she would only break down and cry! Mary thought to herself as she cautiously stood at the door looking into the girl's room. But if Karen heard her, she made no move whatever to signify that she knew her mother was there. With the greatest of care, Mary prepared Karen's favorite luncheon dishes and took them on an attractive tray to her room. "T don't want any lunch." Karen shook her head. 253 "Try to eat a few bites anyway. See I have your favorite salad and some hot muffins. It will make you feel better." Then, anticipating another refusal, she hastily added, "Tl just leave it here on the table." She felt that it was no time for preaching or even encouraging, but hastily set the tray down and left, feeling sure that Karen would succumb to the temptation of chicken salad, blueberry muffins, and the enticing milk-shake. Later, when Mary picked up the tray, Karen was lying down with her eyes closed. But a goodly portion of the food had been consumed. The next few weeks were difficult ones for all at the Lunford home. 'Tears now often relieved the girl's suffering, but she was nervous, cross, and temperamental. In spite of all that could be said to her in the spirit of love and comfort by her parents, she refused to accept the situation. "But I love him! He's mine. I'm certain he's making a mistake. I'm sure God won't let this happen to me. Things will be different when he's home and sees me again. He still thinks of me as young, and doesn't realize I'm grown. I'm sure I can win him back!" In such phrases she constantly expressed her attitude, and refused to consider the reverse possibility. "But perhaps God has other plans for you. This may be his will. Later, you may thank him ferv ently that you didn't marry Russ." Her mother and father tried to reason with her, and many examples were given her of people whose romances had been interrupted, who later were very happy that they had thus 254 been saved from a marriage which undoubtedly would have been a mistake. They appealed to her pride. "You certainly don't want Russ if he doesn't want you. You can't throw yourself at him and demand that he marry you. It would only cheapen you in his eyes, and make him despise you." "Mother, I don't think I have any pride left. I love him, and I want him more than anything in the world. I could stand poverty, sickness, anything — if I only had Russ. And I would be willing to do almost anything, or make any sacrifice to get him." AREN ate little, refused to see or talk with her friends, and only the loving patience of her mother, who continually endeavored to keep her busy and divert her mind, kept things on an even keel. All this was extremely trying and nerve-wracking on the elder Lunfords, who often would gladly have "turned her over the knee, and given her a good spanking," as Father Lunford expressed it, if it would have done any good. Then one day they heard that Russ was home, and that he was to make his report at his ward sacrament meeting the following Sunday. But he did not attempt to contact Karen, and how thankful Mary was that he did not live next door, as he had before they moved to the new house. That night as Mary went to — sleep seemed as a friend who had departed for a foreign shore. Hour after hour she lay awake, wondering, hoping, and praying. She heard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 the far-off whistle of the train, the rumble of trucks on the nearby highway, the bark of a dog, and an occasional roar of an airplane motor as it cut a swath through the stillness of the sky. And ever as an undertone there was the chatter of the grasshoppers and katydids as they gossiped together during the warm summer night. With the soft, wavering light of the early dawn, she fell asleep with the assurance in her heart that her prayers would be answered. "Father," Mrs. Lunford said to her husband on Sunday morning, "at Karen's request we will fast today. We are to fast until after the sacrament meeting this evening, which we will attend at our old ward, where Russ will make his report. We are praying — not that she may have her own way in the matter, but that she may realize what is the Lord's will." "Very well," replied Mr. Lunford. "I will fast with you." ig has been said that it takes more than mere faith to perform a miracle, there must be a unity of faith, love, and understanding. Karen dressed simply in white for the evening meeting, but she had never looked more beautiful or charming. They arrived just as the service was ready to start and quietly took their places. Mary felt Karen's nerves go taut as she recognized Russ on the stand. As the service progressed, she gained a little more composure, but although she appeared outwardly calm, the girl was nervous and trembling. Then, quite suddenly, as Russ was THE REQUEST about halfway through his report, Mary felt her daughter relax, and her breathing become slower and more steady. A quick glance at her face showed Marty, to her astonishment, that Karen was wearing a look of calmness and self-assurance. A sigh of relief almost escaped the mother's lips, as she, too, began to relax. As soon as the meeting was over, Karen tranquilly walked up the aisle, followed by her parents, and joined the group waiting to congratulate and shake the hand of the newly returned missionary. Warmly, and with a smile, when her turn came, she held out her hand with perfect self-control. "Congratulations, Russ," she said, 255 "you did very well. I'm proud to be your friend." Then she simply walked on, without a backward glance, making room for the next in line. "Mother," Karen said when they were once again at home, "you know something just came over me, all of a sudden, as I sat there listening to Russ talk. I just knew, as well as I ever knew anything, that he wasn't the man for me. He seemed like — well, almost like a stranger. And at once I didn't want him any more, I felt perfectly contented and happy. "And now that matter is over and settled, didn't I hear you saying something the other day about my returning to the 'Y' this fall?" Co nfiden tial Ida Elaine James The sudden flight, the song far on the hill, The secret twilight haunts of whippoorwill; The lacquered leaf, under first glint of sun— Pearls on water that float to oblivion; The scuttling insects, wind through the apple tree, All hide their mystery from you and me: All these, and more, intimately revealed To a young stripling wandering far afield! Dn terim Grace Barker Wilson Today I set out pansies in the box Outside the door. Tomorrow I'll plant hollyhocks. Then two days more Will give me time to trim the hedge, And clip the lawn, And take the sharpness from time's edge While he is gone. You Can Sew—II Marking. Pinning. And Basting Jean Ridges Jennings BEHIND every well-made, smartlooking dress or suit, is a long story of care—care taken in a succession of processes and steps that lead up to the successfully completed garment. Without meticulous attention to little details, few clothes will merit the "success" label. Proper planning in anything you do is a "must." This holds true in sewing as with any other jobs to be done. Haphazard work wastes time and causes errors. Marking, pinning, and basting are three of the steps that are part of the care and planning needed in making fine clothes. When all pieces have been cut out, the next step is to transfer to the fabric the various construction marks printed on the pattern—dart and pleat lines, buttonhole and pocket locations, top-of-sleeve mark, and so on. Get the habit of transferring all pattern markings accurately to your material, so you will know how to sew the various pieces together. Often a very slight deviation throws a whole dress out of line and causes untold trouble. On most fabrics, a speedy and accurate method of marking is the use of dressmaker's tracing or carbon and a tracing wheel. Straight lines, such as darts, pleats, etc., are marked by using the tracing wheel against the edge of a firmly held ruler. Remember that carbon is used only on the wrong side of the material as it is not removable. Place one piece of the tracing paper, colored side up, beneath the under layer of fabric. Place a second piece, colored side down bePage 256 tween the top layer of fabric and the pattern piece. 'Trace over pattern lines with the wheel. Single points, such as the perforation making the sleeve top, are marked with two short crossed lines. Some materials, such as heavy tweeds and loosely woven sheer woolens, may not mark clearly with the tracing wheel. On other lightweight or transparent fabrics, the markings will show through on the right side. For both these types of materials, tailor's tacks give a better mark. On all kinds of cloth when marks are needed on the right side, tailor's tacks should be used, since other methods may leave a spot that cannot be removed. A chalked thread run through both layers of fabric at frequent intervals is a quick and easy method of indicating seam lines. Make a line of long and short basting stitches of contrasting thread down the center front and center back of blouse and skirt sections to help as a fitting guide. The less a garment is handled in the making, the better it will look when completed. Repeated stitching and picking out to remedy mistakes gives the cloth a worked-over look and detracts from its newness. Both time and effort can be saved in the end by taking more pains in the beginning with careful pining and basting to insure accurate machine stitching the first time. Always work on a table as much as possible and keep material flat. Pin seams together with absolute accuracy at top and bottom and at YOU CAN SEW—II MARKING, PINNING, AND BASTING 257 CORRECT PROCEDURE FOR PINNING ON LONG SEAMS frequent intervals between. Put pins into material at right angles to the edge and on the seam line and they will not be in the way when stitching. Be extra careful of long seams and those on the bias. Under the sewing machine presser foot one edge pushes along more than the other. Extreme care is needed to avoid having edges come out uneven. Whether you pin and baste or just pin, depends on the type of material being sewed as well as the ability of the scamstress. Napped fabrics like velvet and velveteen crawl when being sewn. Sheers like chiffon stretch and slip. All of these materials need more basting than those with a firm weave and flat surface. Basting, for most women, is a slow, unattractive process. But it can be speeded up in many cases by using the machine instead of doing it by hand. It is done by using the longest stitch on the sewing machine and sewing together, on the machine, the pieces to be basted after accurately pinning them in place. 'This is useful, not only to hold pieces together for fitting, etc., but also for marking. When machine basting is used for marking, have thread of a contrasting color to show up plainly, When 258 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 — ee @eep wea see =e=ses® === #£z;%9o=aeP coe BASTING PROCEDURES (from top to bottom) 1. Hand basting, before fitting. Short, % inch stitches. 2. Hand basting for marking, long and short stitches. 3. Diagonal basting, for interfacing and skirt linings. 4. Machine basting, using the longest stitch on the sewing machine. Basting for fitting, matching thread may be used. Then if no alterations are necessary, the basting thread may be left in or not as desired. If left in, the regular machine stitching ls done over it. In basting long seams preparatory to fitting dresses, machine basting is ideal. It is not only very quick, but holds the pieces together firmly to insure accuracy. If hand basting is used, care must be taken to have stitches close enough to hold sections together tightly. Always remove bastings in short pieces by cutting thread at frequent intervals. This will avoid much wear and tear on cloth. The Heart of the Home Frances C. Yost ARVILLA Weaver wiped the perspiration from her brow, and started another piece of clothing through the mangle. She wished little Marty would get out from underfoot. If she would only play outside until the mangling was done anyway. In mother's day, Marvilla thought, when the wash was finally done, we could call it a day, but now, well, if I don't mangle the flat pieces why I can't possibly get the ironing finished on Tuesday. When the ironing isn't finished on 'Tuesday, then the mending isn't done on Wednesday, and the sewing and repairing aren't done on 'Thursday, and the baking isn't done on Friday, and the cleaning and shopping aren't done on Saturday, and things aren't ready for Sunday, and the whole week is behind. Marvilla's thinking had completely exhausted her, but she started trying to push clothes through the mangle just a little faster, and started worrying about what to fix for supper. She should pick the peas in the garden for supper, but there wasn't time, and the beets just had to be pulled and pickled. Marvilla's face knitted into a frown. She looked down at Marty, still lying underfoot. What is she doing, blowing hot air through a straw on my legs? "Mommy doesn't it tickle your legs?" Marty asked. "Tt surely does, and I wish.... Marvilla's voice had an_ irritated tone. "Then, if it tickles, why don't " you laugh?" Marty's little fouryear-old face seemed a mixture of disappointment and puzzlement. Marvilla frowned, and raised her voice a little higher and replied, "Because I'm much too busy working, Marty, to take time to laugh." Suddenly Marty bounced her little self from the floor at her mother's feet, and with arms akimbo said seriously, "You should never be too busy to laugh!" 'Then, turning, she fled from the room. Marvilla, alone now in the utility room, pondered over the incident. What was she doing wrong? Surely she worked hard enough, she was busy every minute. Why she was a drudge, and she might as well admit it. Marvilla looked about her. She had things convenient, lots more so than her own mother had had. Her own mother had washed with a gas engine, and even before that with a hand agitator and hand wringer. Then on ironing day they had used the stove-heated irons. 'They had laughingly referred to them as sadirons, but nobody had been sad when they used them. Each one of the girls had been proud to take her turn and finish a piece of clothing with never a sign of scorch. Marvilla had to admit things were complicated, too, before the electrical appliance age, but her mother had had something! "What was it mother had that I haven't?"" Marvilla asked herself. Mother certainly hadn't been a queen bee sitting on a throne while all the children, like worker bees, slaved about her. But she had been Page 259 260 sort of queenly. She had certainly been the center of the workinghome operation. "What did mother have?" Marvilla repeated. She pulled out the electric plug on the mangle and let it cool. "Well, I'm going to call it a day!" Why that was what mother used to say, when the big task of the day was finished. 'That meant that from then on, no matter what the family had to do, it would be classed as fun.... KOK RK OK OK ce I DO declare that wash is a thing to be proud of!" Mother Martin said. "Everything's white that should be white, and the colored clothes remind one of a rainbow there with the blue sky behind. Well let's call it a day!" All the little Martin children huddled about her and admired the beauty of their washline rainbow. "Yes, let's call it a day!" the children chorused excitedly. "What are we going to do now, Mother?" "How would you all like to piece a quilt? There are lots of nice pieces left from the school sewing, and we'll need more quilts when winter sets in." Mother Martin smiled happily. "What pattern shall we make, Mother?" Rozilla queried. "How about the wedding-ring pattern, or the charm block?" "Those are more difficult patterns. How about a good ninepatch, and all the children can thread their needles and help out!" Mother smiled as if she had just thought of going on a picnic or taking the family to the seashore. "Yes, let's make the nine-patch, so's we can all sew!" little Marvilla shouted. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 Suddenly everyone was busy, cutting, sewing, and resting tired feet after the difficult task of washing. The hard work of ironing tomorrow was a distant thing in the future and too far away even to worry about. Remembering, Marvilla knew other days when the children gathered around mother in the little armless rocker, and they shelled peas or cleaned gooseberries or learned how to crochet. Everyone enjoyed the task at hand and the conversation, and little jokes and funny experiences they shared were still alive in memory. Marvilla could still recall a story mother told about their own home, when all of the girls had dresses and the boys had shirts out of red plaid. Grandfather had purchased a whole bolt of material because it was such a good buy! There were times when the children would promise to shell peas extra fast, if mother would read to them. Each little child had a chance to sit close to mother and read the little words with mother coming in with the pronunciation of the harder ones. Nobody was wondering why Johnny couldn't read in those days. Because Johnny was reading, almost every day.... OR ROKK 6s] KNOW what mother had!" Marvilla said aloud. "Mother had a heart. Mother had a heart for her work and a heart for her children. Mother wasn't a slave picking up after little people and shooing them out of the house to keep it clean. Mother was the heart of her home. Each of the members of the family was part of the circulatory system. Father was, of course, the main artery. He carried the heaviest load, but everyone was THE HEART OF THE HOME contributory, running here and there, bringing and fetching, working swiftly and pleasantly, and always feeling essential. Marvilla shut her eyes, and _remembered one day when as a little gitl she had washed dozens of bottles for canning simply because mother had praised her and _ said that she was the only one who had a tiny enough hand to get nght down in the bottles and polish and shine them properly. How important she had felt! Marvilla remembered, too, how she had gone ahead of mother with her little cloth on cleanup day and mopped. She must have been a nuisance, but mother hadn't ever let her know it. She had heard nothing but praise for her efforts. Mother had taught them religion without seeming to preach. She had shared their confidences and their heartaches. Why, when she was a teen, her friends had said they wished they could talk to their mothers the way Marvilla could. Marvilla couldn't remember getting a letter from a boy friend that she hadn't shared, at least in part, with her mother. And after dates she would sit on the bed and Mom would listen to everything, the good times, and the heartache times, and they would laugh or cry together as the experience merited. "I want to be the heart of my home, like Mom." Marvilla said aloud. "I want to be a successful mother. I must gather my children around me now while they are little. Not shoo them away. Dear God, help me to make a new start before it's too late. Today I have let my Marty leave me, because I was too 261 busy, too busy to be interesting to her. Dear Heavenly Father, give me the courage and the strength to be the heart of my home." For a few minutes Marvilla let her tired head rest on the mangle top. Then from somewhere the courage and the strength came. It was as if her own heart had suddenly received a new flow of energy. With co-operative energy sprinkled with' a bit of humor and topped with a whipped-cream smile, Marvilla went out of the back door. Just then Marty rushed to the door excitedly. "Mother, Jerry and Jimmy are fighting again!" Marvilla put her arm lovingly out to Marty. "I'm calling it a day. I've put the mangle away. Now Jerry and Jimmy and you and I are going to have some fun! I want to tell you about Peter Piper and his pickled peppers." Marvilla took Marty's chubby little hand in hers and together they walked into the yard. "Momie's going to tell us about Peter Piper's pickled peppers," Marty shouted. Jerry and Jimmy came running to where Marvilla and Marty had dropped on the lawn under the maple tree. "Who can say Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers?" Marvilla laughed. All three little Weavers started trying, but their laughter made it difficult. "Shall we make some pickles?" Marvilla asked. "We don't have any peppers?" Jerry said. "IT know some magic. I think if we all try we can make pickles out 262 of beets from our own garden," Marvilla said mysteriously. "Oh, I know, pickled beets." and Jerry laughed. Marvilla laughed with the chilJim RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 "We need one person, with a real small hand to fit into the bottles and shine them properly." Marvilla winked at Jim and Jerry. "My hands are little enough to go dren. It was good to laugh. She into a bottle!" Marty offered exhad been too serious, too tense in citedly. Going to try to make working toNfarvilla asked gayly. "We'll have a gether fun. "Now, let's see, we need two big strong fellows to dig beets, a whole bucket full of them, and wash them under the sprinkler,' Marvilla said coyly. "We're big and strong!" Jim and Jerry shouted. Peck of pickled beets by the time Daddy comes home!" The three children went their ways, like little circulatory veins going out from the heart, but they would hurry back to the heart of their home! >_> My Babies Blanche B. Peterson BA child of mine was a little bundle of accomplishments from other worlds, holding within its tiny soul the possibilities of worlds to come. I remember the first one that came to me. I placed its little fist against my face while tears ran down my cheeks in gratitude to God, knowing that I was partner with him in so fine a thing. A great adventure truly had been mine. And every time I walked the path again, I walked with pride down through the valley with my head held high. I marveled at the gift that would be mine and wondered how the child would take the things of earth; what virtues would she make a part of her, or would he be master of the things he met? Would he have the strength and courage of a truly gentle man? Then when I reached the door where none could go save me and that Great Attendant who is consoler at all earth's travails, my heart beat fast with great anticipation and joy came to me as to one who seesthe finish of her task in sight, and I was glad to pay whatever price to gain my prize. Now that they are grown, these babies of mine, my joy hangs on their every word and deed. I ask no greater blessing than that they will take my hand and lead me to a higher plane and christen me with that most gracious name, "Mother." Srue Sight Mabel Law Atkinson Let my eyes see beyond the broken gate The perfect lily, And my heart feel through strains of dissonance The patterned rhythm. Her role as a mother. But she was "Well, what are we waiting for?" To Have the Peace Betty Ventura S the second-class bus joggled and jerked down the narrow, dusty road, Lola peered out anxiously, her black eyes seeking their first glimpse of the familiar long row of pepper trees. Only seven weeks away from her home in Santiago, but how good it would be to see Mama and Papa and the little ones again! She had never been away from them for so long. When Tia Rosita's time had drawn near, it had been decided that Lola should be sent to care for her, back in the little hill town of Milpa, and to care for Tia Rosita's six children and Uncle Carlos. It would mean hard work, for Milpa was a tiny place, hardly a town at all, where women and girls still washed their clothes in the stream, and where the corn for each family's tortillas was ground out by hand on' a stone metate. For Lola it would mean long hours of grinding corn and cooking, and washing and ironing, and looking after six little cousins. But Lola was sixteen, with smaller brothers and sisters of her own, and maturity was expected of her. Had she not learned to pat out firm round tortillas in her own home, to cook and help Mama with the little ones, and with Carlos who was ten? So sixteen-year-old Lola had been sent to Milpa, to perform the tasks of a woman. But now Tia Rosita was better; the new black-headed baby boy grew fatter and fatter. And Lola could go home! And, oh, what stories she would tell the little ones! Her dark eyes sparkled at the thought. All about the little white-faced burros which went bouncing up and down the hills of Milpa. About the day the goats climbed up the low thatched roof of Tia Rosita's little adobe house, and how all the cousins helped chase them down again. About funny little Milpa itself: rows of brown adobe houses, not painted white like those in Santiago, and the narrow donkey trails which were the streets, and no stores or schools or electric lights, not even a big church. And then Lola would tell the little ones, and Mama and Papa, too, about Mario, the boy who knew so many games for the cousins, who could tell time by the stars, who knew ever so many things about animals and flowers, the boy who had helped her so much when her back grew tired from grinding corn and there were still so many tasks undone. Mario had even washed clothes in the stream with her, something no boy in all Santiago would do. 'There were so many things, good things, to tell about Mario. Perhaps that is why she was so anxious to get home. Suddenly, there lining the road ahead were the pepper trees, and then reaching out to meet them the cobblestone street of Santiago; then rows of white-washed adobe houses, and the plaza where the bus stopped. And there in the bright sun of the plaza were Papa and Mama and the brothers and sisters. "Papa, Mama! Maria has grown Page 263 264 taller. Carlos, I can ride a burro now, even when he runs. Oh, and I bring you all sweet tuna fruit and many greetings from Tia Rosita." All was laughter and Lola knew how good, how wonderful it was to be with her family again. Ww OK KK N the days that followed, the stories of Milpa were told many times over. During the day Lola worked in her cousin's bakery, but in the evenings the little ones gathering about her would say, "Tell us again about the goats." Or the burritos. Or, knowing what she liked best, "Tell us about Mario." And Lola would retell the seven weeks of her life in Milpa. Later, after family prayer, when the little ones were asleep, Lola and her parents would sit around the rough kitchen table, her father as always with his Church books before him, and she would tell them more of Mario. "T tried to tell him of the religion too," she had said. "And he listened. He said he will come to the Mutual when he can." Her parents looked at this daughter of theirs, suddenly so serious, so nearly a woman. "He will like the Mutual classes," said Mama. "And you can give him tracts of Ce ee the missionaries. "T... I do not think he reads." Lola lowered her eyes. "He has no books in his house." There were many who could not read, especially in the smaller towns, in the Mexico of a decade or so ago. Lola's own father did not learn until RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 he came to Santiago as a young man. And now he took in his hand a Church book every night, and he knew more than anyone about the religion. Papa smiled kindly at his daughter's crestfallen look. "It is no disgrace to be an iletreado, without learning. One can listen and one can remember. I want to meet this Mario. I hope he comes soon to the Mutual." A week passed, and then another, and late in the afternoon of the third Tuesday Mario arrived, his black pants dusty from the long ride, his big sombrero slanting forward on his head. From her cousin's bakery Lola saw him crossing the plaza, stocky and square-shouldered, his face very brown in the shadow of the big hat, and her heart pounded as she walked out to meet him. "Buenas tardes, Lola." Under the wide brim, Mario's warm smile was the same. "I am sorry I could not come before. We have started the planting of the corn." They walked to her home and Mario met Lola's mother and two little sisters who stood staring at him with their big dark eyes, unable to utter a single sound. Mario at first was shy, but he soon began conversing with Mama and answering her questions about Tia Rosita's family. Later, Papa, Lola, and Mario went to Mutual and in the tiny chapel they sang hymns together and listened to the lesson. To Lola every word now seemed important, the words of every song, and she felt a sweet contentment at the clear explanations given by the tall missionary teacher, Elder Lewis, Surely TO HAVE THE PEACE Mario could feel the same spirit as she! Afterwards, they walked home down the dimly lit streets and Mario. Told her father about Milpa and his work there. It reminded Papa of his own boyhood, the same hard life working stubborn, rocky land with a wooden plow. He felt a great sympathy for this boy who, like himself, had grown up without education and without opportunity. The gospel could do so much for him. Mama, staying at home with the little ones, had prepared hot milk and sweet bread for them. As they sat around the table Lola thought how kind her parents were, how encouraging and sympathetic. Afterwards, Mario left for the plaza where he would await the bus that would take him back to Milpa by sunup. HE weeks passed and almost every Tuesday Mario came. Sometimes the second-class bus was early, sometimes very late, for being old and rickety, breakdowns were frequent. Yet Mario never complained. And he seemed to enjoy the Mutuals. During the programs and games he laughed and frolicked with the better-dressed young people of Santiago. But in the quiet of the class period his shyness returned, and he would take no part in the lessons. Lola, seated at his side, knew he listened carefully to all that was said, but when Elder Lewis asked a question he would only shake his head and drop his eyes. Walking home afterwards, Mario and Papa talked about many subjects, the rainfall, the corn, or the government's 265 new program for distributing land. Once Papa explained carefully about President Camacho's plan to set up night schools and outdoor centers in the small towns where adults might learn to read. "Each one must teach one," Papa had said would be their slogan. But the subject of religion was never mentioned. Conference came in July and Mario was able to come to the Sunday meeting. The little chapel was almost full and even the mission president was there from Mexico City. From her place in the choir, Lola watched Mario. Every talk, every testimony must be for him, she prayed. After the meeting, as she made her way through the congregation she saw Elder Lewis standing at Mario's side, his hand on his shoulder. The missionary was handing him a copy of The Book of Mormon, and she heard him say, "Read it, Mario, and pray that you may understand and believe what you read." Embarrassment flooding his face, Mario took the book and said in a low voice, "Gracias, Elder Lewis." IN the fall as harvest time came on, Mario's visits became more infrequent. Lola's parents could not help but notice how quiet she became those Tuesdays that he was not there. She would walk in silence at her father's side. How different from the happy chatter of other days! If one of the member boys spoke to her, she would pause and chat in friendliness, then turn away, ready to walk home with her father. Perhaps it was seeing this, this change of a happy girl into a sober 266 young woman, that made Papa, who never interferred, never gave advice when it was not sought, speak to her one evening. He told her of his own life, how as a young man, newly married, he became interested in the Church. How his friends laughed at him, ridiculed him, and eventually left him. How through it all he and Mama found happiness and strength in their own home, in their love of the gospel. How, later, they had helped build up the tiny branch of the Church in Santiago from among other acquaintances, new friends. Lola from her own childhood tremembered the lonely years when they had been the only members in Santiago. "To Mama and me the religion is more than just a church to go to. It is our life together and with our children. And no matter what others do or say to hurt us, for us it is to have the peace." Lola, knowing the great concern and love that lay behind her father's words, felt tears well into her eyes, and she could only answer, "Si, Papa, I know." All week long Lola theught of her father's words, thought of what her family and home meant. Their prayers together, their talks about the Church, the differences between them and their neighbors. On Tuesday Mario came again. Elder Lewis gave the lesson. He asked Mario a question, something Lola knew he could answer, but as before Mario shook his head and remained silent. That night as they walked home Papa and Mario talked of many things. To Lola it was as though, the Mutual lesson over, Mario could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 turn his thoughts to more important subjects. After all, was he really interested in the religion? As they arrived home and _ her father entered the house, Mario stopped Lola. "What is wrong? You have hardly spoken. Are you angry with me? Disturbed and upset, Lola could only shake her head. "Lola, please tell me if I have done anything wrong. I could not bear to have you angry with me." All the strain and restless worry of the past days rose up in her and Lola cried out, "Oh, Mario, to us the religion is so important. — If only... If only you could study the books like Papa." There was hurt in Mario's gentle eyes. "I'm sorry I do not know how." And he was gone. He did not come the next week nor the next. The sisters and brothers asked and asked about him, until Mama, finally, hushed them up and told them they must not bother Lola any more. A month went by, and another. The summer had ended and the harvesting was long past. Lola tried to have faith during their family prayers and in her own prayers, but, afterwards, when she lay for hours staring up into the darkness, the doubts came again. She wondered if she would ever see him again. They had never spoken of love, not even of a serious understanding between them, but she knew how deep was her love for him. How could she have spoken so cruelly! When the farm work was over and the coldness of the dry season had set in, two night classes were started in Santiago, and sometimes? TO HAVE THE PEACE in the plaza Lola would see the volunteer teachers, their blackboards in hand, getting on the buses. She wanted to ask if they ever went to Milpa, or near there, but she did not dare. Milpa somehow had become another world. The weather turned very cold and on Tuesday nights Papa and Lola would almost run through the streets to Mutual. Was it because those same streets had once been so full of warmth and happiness that they now seemed so cold? ONE night when they came late from Mutual, Mama was standing in the doorway. "Lola," she called out, "Mario is here. The bus had trouble, but he walked." Lola ran down the shaft of light into the open door. 'There stood Mario, his clothing streaked with dust, but his eyes shining as she had never seen them shine before. "Lola," he said, taking her cold hand into his warm, brown one, "how are you? I am sorry that I have come so late. But I want to... LT have to show you tonight." In his hand was a_ package wrapped in a piece of cloth. They all sat down at their usual places at the table, and Mario laid the package in front of them. Carefully he unwrapped the cloth. It 267 was The Book of Mormon the missionary had given him. Lola felt a swelling within her chest. Opening the book, Mario leaned forward, his eyes gleaming, his broad fingers turning the leaves, seeking the page and line. Then he looked up and his smile was all for Lola. He began reading: "I Nephi, having been born of goodly _parents,.. " Slowly, hesitatingly, the soft Spanish words came out like those of a child who reads a lesson for a teacher. Lola felt that she would burst from within. 'Tears of gratitude came to her eyes. '"... Having had a great knowledge of the goodness and the mysteries of God, therefore I make a record...." How wonderfully the words sounded, from Mario. Lola looked at her parents, at her father, the tears running down his checks, and saw reflected in their eyes the same pride that was in her own. How many hours, how many patient, lonely hours Mario must have spent with his books and his candle. Looking at her parents, then at Mario, she thought, we, too, will have the happiness. Lika Papa and Mama, we, too, will have the peace. Spring Sabbath Dorothy ]. Roberts Now the white word of blossoms Is syllabled upon the grass. Over the lawn, their substance Like a white cloud is broken, And the green halo of leaf and spear Circles the zone of spring. Sarah A. Sanders Makes Quilts For Contentment ARAH A. Sanders of LaVerkin, Utah, has found that her hobby of quiltmaking brings contentment to her and comfort and joy to her friends and relatives. She has made, without assistance, more than one hundred large quilts and more than a hundred quilts for children's beds. She has lost count of the number of Relief Society quilts which she has helped to make in her long years of active membership in the society. She was ward Relief Society president for seven and a half years, and has been a visiting teacher for over fifty years, besides holding teaching and executive positions in the Primary and Sunday School. Now, at the age of eighty-one, Mrs. Sanders counts her lovely family as her choicest blessings. She has nine children, forty-two grandchildren, and fifty-eight great-grandchildren. -_ She Green Day Elsie McKinnon Strachan Where recently lay the winter snow, New grasses grow, Leaf-winged and emerald— Sprung from their chrysalis sleep; Slender, ephemeral, The green day comes alive; While harmonies of song and movement thrive, Yielding a crop of splendor For the eyes to reap. Page 268 Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 4 Svnopsis: When her sister Elizabeth died, Carol Wilson, unmarried, felt a responsibility towards Elizabeth's children. Several months later she left her work as an artist for a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, and returned to her sister's home, hoping to comfort the children. However she found them well cared for. T was a hilariously happy group that piled out of the station wagon and romped into the big living room. Carol, coming back from her walk, paused at the edge of the yard to watch. Fred saw her standing there and shouted, "Come on in, Carol. Extend the welcoming hand!" Carol came quickly, crossed the porch to the woman standing _beside Fred. "Mrs. Graham! _ It's wonderful to see you again!" "Carol! You get lovelier every time I see you!" Dolly Graham regarded Carol with bright, friendly eyes. Then, "You've never met my brother, have you? ['m_ almost afraid to introduce him to such a lovely girl — he's so impressionable. But then—" she laughed gaily, "Carol, this is Tony." She turned to her brother, "Carol is Elizabeth's sister." "And an added attraction to the Wyoming scene!" Tony laughed. He was tall and slim, black-haired and keen-faced, very handsome and, Carol thought, very young. "You need have no fears for Tony," Fred chuckled. "Carol's a girl that sees nothing in men excepting as business associates." "Well," Tony parried cheerfully, "TIl be her business associate any day. What enterprise can we start, Carol? Anything you say goes. Carol had to laugh. She felt lighthearted and gay. In fact, the whole atmosphere of the ranch house seemed to have grown brighter with the advent of these two pleasant people Inside the house, Dolly ran to Mrs. Trent and gave her a swift, affectionate hug and kiss. "Mother 'Trent!' she whispered gently. "I've thought of you so much! I so wished I could have been here when Elizabeth died. But I'm home now—and it is good! Good!" Mrs. 'Trent's face was flushed with happiness. 'The frail hands clung to Dolly Graham's arm. "I'm so glad, so very glad, Dolly!" Then Mrs. Cartwright came bustling in and was introduced. And Dolly Graham, with the air of one who had a right to comment, said, "Fred tells me you're a wonderful help, Mrs. Cartwright. And seeing the children and Mrs. Trent and the house — I know he's right. I am so grateful they've had someone like you to look after them!" Carol turned away, _ blinking smarting eyes. The housekeeper, the hired housekeeper, was praised for taking care of Elizabeth's children! Well, in all fairness, she deserved praise. And what had Elizabeth's sister done? Nothing— nothing but worry and wait. Page 269 270 "Aunt Dolly;" Trudy was tugging at the woman's skirt, "Aunt Dolly, what did you bring me?" "Trudy!" Mrs. Trent reprimanded, a little sharply. "We don't ask questions like that!" "T do, Grandma!" Trudy said stoutly. "I ask." Dolly Graham chuckled and lifted the child in her arms. "And Aunt Dolly will answer any question you ask her, Trudy, darling. But not right now. Let's eat our good dinner first, shall we?. You know Uncle Tony and Aunt Dolly are hungry." She looked at the other children over Trudy's golden curls. "We'll have dinner and then we'll all see what's in the big present-box. How's that?" The dinner, as usual, was delicious, but the children were too excited and curious to do it justice. Tony, seated next to Carol, was attentive and charming, full of gay jokes and bright quips. Once she turned her blue eyes full upon his handsome, teasing face and asked, mischievously, "Whatever did you do with all your charm in the mission field?" He sobered instantly and said quietly, "I used it to the best advantage — not for me, but for the Church." "Tell me some of your experiences," Carol begged. "Sometime I'd like to tell you all of them," Tony said, a smile chasing away that serious look. Trudy pushed aside her plate and said, "I'm through. It's after dinner now, Aunt Dolly!" Dolly Graham laughed goodnaturedly. "T'll bet you will want a big supper, but that will be all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 tight. Tony, bring in the presentbox, will you?" Tony grinned assent and went out to the station wagon. Mrs. Cartwright set up a folding table in the middle of the room, and Tony placed a huge box upon it. The children crowded around, their eyes wide, their voices shrill with excitement. "Now, children!" Mrs. Trent admonished, "try to act just a little bit civilized, won't you?" THEY didn't seem to hear her. Carol stooped and picked up Trudy, intending to hold her high so she could see over the heads of the others, But the little girl squirmed out of her aunt's arms and wriggled between Kathy and Steve to stand with her small dimpled chin just over the table's edge. 'Tony, unwrapping the big box, leaned across and tweaked the little girl's upturned nose, and Trudy giggled ecstatically. Tony took care to leave the wrappings in such a position that the contents of the box could not be seen, "The first shall be last and the last shall be first!" chanted Dolly Graham. "Is that okay with all concerned?" "Yes! Yes!" cried the children, eager to be about the business of the day. Dolly Graham drew out a beautifully wrapped box and handed it to Trudy. "For the darlingest fouryear-old in Wyoming!" she said. Trudy's small fingers fumbled with the nbbons. Carol wanted to reach down and help her, but after the unconscious rebuff of a moment ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN ago, she hesitated. Becky's glance was swiveling from Trudy to the box, unwilling to miss 'T'rudy's gift, yet eager for her own. "T have an idea," Dolly Graham said. "Each one can open her gift and show it to the othcrs before the next one is handed out. How will that be? Then we can all enjoy all of them." "Good idea!" Tony exclaimed. "Trudy, honey, let Aunt Carol help you with those strings." So Carol was drawn into it. She stopped and carefully slipped the ribbon from the box, thumbed up the cellophane tape that held the paper, and revealed a white box. "You can open this yourself, Trudy," she said, and handed the box to the child. Trudy jerked off the lid and squealed with delight. Inside was a rosy, chubby, baby doll. "That's a sweet little Pupchen from Germany," Dolly Graham said. "Do you like her, Trudy?" "Oh, I love her! I love her!" And Trudy squeezed the doll to her heart. One by one the children received their gifts: a French little-girl doll for Becky; a Queen Elizabeth doll for Kathy; a Spanish lace shawl for Mrs. Trent; a book of foreign recipes for Mrs. Cartwright; French perfume for Carol. Carol knew, of course, that her present came from the extra gifts any wise traveler brings home for just such an emergency. Dolly Graham hadn't known she would be here. But the perfume was presented with such an air of having been selected on purpose for its recipient, that Carol felt a warm glow of affection toward this woman, 271 even though she, of all people, seemed the one who might take Carol's place in the hearts of Elizabeth's children. They had saved Fred's gift to the very last. Now Dolly handed it to him — a flat, rectangular package. They all watched as he unwrapped it to expose a book — an album of some sort. He opened it, and the expression of surprised delight was reward enough for the thought and care that had gone into its making. HE looked up at Dolly Graham. "Dolly!" Emotion choked him. "This is the very best, the most wonderful gift you could have brought me." The woman smiled happily. "Yes, we took time to visit your mission field in Virginia. The saints there still remember you with the greatest affection, Fred. 'They went all out to help 'Tony get the pictures." Fred held the album out to Carol. "Look, Carol! 'That's Sister Hendry — the most wonderful woman! Look at her eyes!" Carol looked at the photograph, a color print of an elderly, whitehaired woman with the most rematkable blue eyes she had ever seen. The whole expression on the serene old face was one of benevolence and saintliness. "Tt's been fifteen years!" Fred breathed. "It was before I married Elizabeth. But she looks exactly the same as she did the day I baptized her." He turned to Dolly Graham. "I'm not going to try to thank you, Dolly. Some things are beyond thanks." Carol walked slowly to the wide window and looked out at the tow- (Continued on page 276) \\ FROM THE FIELD | Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Photograph submitted by Loleta W. Dixon WEST UTAH STAKE, PROVO SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS OVER EIGHTY YEARS OLD HONORED AT CHRISTMAS PARTY December 17, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Bertha P. Ross (eighty-two); Emma Hansgen (ninety-nine); Mary Ann Dayton (eighty-three); Mercy Ellen Peay (ninety-two). Second row, standing, left to right: Harriet O. Redden (eighty); Marilla L. Jacobsen (eighty); Olive Mills (eighty-two); Nellie J. Henrichsen (eighty); Melissa M. Lewis (eighty-three); Hannah J. Cardall (eighty-three). Absent when the picture was taken were: Marcia A. Jolley (eighty-three); Maude N. Peay (eighty-two); Areta S. Johnson. Loleta W. Dixon, President, West Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Provo Second Ward Relief Society boasts thirteen sisters all eighty years old or over. This is believed to be a record for any one ward. They were honored at the Relief Society Christmas party December 17, 1957. Four of the number gave parts on the program: Page 272 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 Melissa M. Lewis gave a retold story; Olive Mills and Nellie J. Ienrichsen sang two duets 'Silver Threads Among the Gold,' and 'Whispering ITope', Hannah J. Cardall gave a Christmas story. Mildred Furse sang 'Passing By,' and "The Holy City." Elma Thatcher read 'The Twelfth Night, and Grace M. Stone gave a beautiful and fitting tribute to our 'young' cighty-vear- "olds. They were presented with flowers and had their pictures taken. 'They were all radiant and bubbling with fun. Iveryone agreed it was a beautiful day. "Cm 'young' sisters are stili keen and alert in mind, although some of their bodies are failing." oS Adio submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAIT) WARD SEWING LEADERS WEARING DRESSES MADE IN RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING PROJECT In front, left to right: Bernice Bylund (Fifth Ward); Kathleen Nelson (Ninth Ward). Back row, standing, left to right: Marie Christensen (Salem Sccond Ward); Tressa Johnson (Thistle); Irma Taylor (Salem Ward); Phyllis Christensen, stake work meeting leader; Hazel Beddoes (Salem Sccond Ward); Donna Carter (Salem Ward). LaJuan Carter of the Twelfth Ward was absent when the picture was taken. Sister Phyllis Christensen reports: ""These women are leaders of a two-year sewing course. They are taking the course through the mstruction of Geneviev Poulson. 'The course goes on for two years and is usually given in the spring and fall. It starts by making a cotton blouse, cotton dress, best dress, and coat. Up to date the women have just finished making the cotton dress. Now they ill take this dress back to the wards where women in the wards will have the opportunity of learning these sewing techniques. Some of the women in the wards have never sewed before. 'The picture was taken because the dresses the leaders are wearing are the ones they have just completed." Sister Phyllis Christensen, stake work meeting leader, organized this group, with representatives from the various wards in the stake. Helen H. Hawkins is president of Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 Photograph submitted by Isabella P. Walton SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH) CHRISTMAS DEMONSTRATION AT UNION MEETING Isabella P. Walton, President, South Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: "This is a picture of a Christmas demonstration given in connection with our December leadership meeting. There were seven departments: Christmas gifts; Christmas decorations; aprons, handkerchiefs; candies, cookies and cakes; gift wrappings; and one table of articles made by our stake work meeting leader. The table in the foreground is the serving table from which were served light refreshments. Aside from the regular attendance at union meeting, there were many other sisters who attended and viewed the lovely displays." Photograph submitted by Luella C. Ricks TACOMA STAKE (WASHINGTON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 1957 Seated, center in the front row: Ramona Stapp, director; Lillian Terry, pianist; June Broomhead, organist. Luella C. Ricks is president of Tacoma Stake Relief Society. ee submitted by May Tare =a SAN FERNANDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 15, 1957 Front row, beginning seventh from the left, stake officers: Geneva Hart, Work Director Counselor; Arlene Keyser, chorister; Mav Rene Goul, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society; De Vonne Clarke, Education Counselor; Beth Johnston, organist. CENTRAL STATES MISSION ACHIEVES 100 PER CENT IN BOOK OF MORMON READING PROJECT May Dyer, President, Central States Mission Rclicf Society, reports: "The Central States Mission reached a noteworthy goal in The Book of Mormon reading project for the past year. At the beginning of the year, Sister Dyer issued a challenge to each of the nine district presidents of Relief Society, to obtain a greater participation in Book of Mormon reading. 'The response to this objective was most gratifying, with every enrolled member (a total of 1062) completing the assignment. In addition, thirty others also fulfilled the assignment. Of significant interest is the fact that 673 members of Relief Society read the entire Book of Mormon during the year. The nine district presidents deserve special mention for their work in followi ing through on this project: Arkansas—Mable Griffin Kansas—Marie Moore West Oklahoma—Miriam Hammell East Oklahoma—Katherine Vaclaw Northwest Missouri—Luella Hanson Southeast Missouri—Pauline Britton East Missouri—Lorene 'Tidlund Southwest Missouri—Ruth Wintle Central Kansas—Dorothy Clay "It is felt that the success of this project has made our sisters more conscious of the need of future study of the standard works of the Church." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 276 Please send the music indicated above. Sacred Selections THREE PART CHORUSES FOR LADIES BRIDGE BUILDER—Dougall.....20 CREATE IN ME A CLEAN HEART—Mueller.........-.....------.20 FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD—Madsen................----.20 GOD SHALL WIPE AWAY ALL TEARS—Roma..........-.--------.20 GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND-—Stickles...... 20 LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.............---.20 LORD'S PRAYER—Gates...........20 MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen _.........2..22eeeeeee-.20 O DIVINE REDEEMER—Gounod.25 TWENTY-THIRD PSALM— Mallotte 2... Ee eeceeeeceneeeeeeeees.22 VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS—Scott 2.22..20.... Cccceeeecceeeeeeee.22 Music Sent on Approval Cl On Approval [] Charge {] Money Enclosed Name......... E. Eeeeceseeeeceeeneeeeeceeeeeecetees Address -..........:.--cee-ceceeeceeecceeeeeeeeneeeeeeceeeeensenees City B State nee cee eee e ce ceeeecerceeeeeneeeee: VAG Daynes Masic | [ UL Mmm Mn 15 E. Ist South Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO®! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 Elizabeth's Children (Continued from page 200) ering peaks that always seemed to quiet her troubled thoughts. 'That was the perfect gift for Fred. It was something that she, Carol, would never have thought of. It showed, as did everything Dolly Graham did, a keen sensitivity to the needs of this family. Carol thought, I could have selected the children's presents all right. I know what they like. But Fred's — I would never, never have thought of that! During the following week it seemed to Carol that Dolly Graham and her brother were constantly on hand. Either the Trents and Carol were all piled into the station wagon and driven over to the Graham ranch for dinner or a swim in the pool there, or Dolly and Tony came up in their own big convertible to spend an evening at the Trent's, or to carry Fred and Carol off to the neighboring village to a Church meeting or a picture show. Tony never gave Carol a chance to feel out of things. He was constantly at her side, attentive, gay, admiring. Sometimes Carol wondered whether this was simply a maneuver to give Fred and Dolly a chance to be together, or whether Tony really cared as much for her as he appeared to. But when such doubts disturbed her, one look into the frank brown eyes dispelled them. Tony Muir did like her, and was beginning to more than like her. Carol couldn't help seeing that. On Friday evening Dolly and Tony had dinner at Fred's. Afterward the whole crowd, including even Mrs. Trent and Mrs. Cart- ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN wright, were playing a new marble game Tony had brought from the East. It was simple enough for Trudy to hold her own, yet exciting enough to send them all off into gales of laughter or shouts of warning. 'The hilarity was at its height when the telephone rang. Fred answered, and turned to Carol. "It's for you." HE went to the phone and felt her heart leap as she heard Brent Gibson's calm, steady voice. "Hi, there, Carol. How's everything?" "Fine! Fine and dandy!" She didn't try to keep the trill of happiness out of her voice. Brent had telephoned at last! In that instant, Carol knew that she had been waiting two weeks for this call. "You coming home this week end?" the man's voice was casual. "Well...." Carol wanted to go now, but she didn't like to say so. She let the one word hang in the air, unsupported. "T just wondered what you'd decided," Brent went on. "You see— well, how are your brother-in-law and the children? Are you having a good time? Did you... Did you...." "Everyone's just fine. Yes, I'm having a good time. Why did you call, Brent?" "Well, to tell the truth, I was getting worried. Afraid you might be deciding to stay, and that — right at this moment — would put me in a spot." Carol felt a dampening of her first bright joy. "Why?" she asked coldly. "Well, to tell you the facts, I got a new serial the other day — a mar- 277 Margaret Lund Tours Hawaiian Tour Leaves June 17 on the S. S. LEILANI, and returns by plane, July 5. Historical L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at HILL CUMORAH; Historical places of the Church; New York; Chicago; Washington; Canada; Niagara Falls; Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City Aug. 2, 1958. $210.00 for 23 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. European Tour Leaves Aug. 18, 1958. Will visit London and Berne, Switzerland, Temples. For further information write or phone: Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23 East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 — AM 2-2337 — CR 7-6334 velous story — and I thought you might like to illustrate it...." "Turn it over to Lew Zane—he can do it!" Carol's voice was sharp. "It's not that simple. You see this story was written by Maybelle Ray." "Maybelle Ray!" Carol almost shouted the words. "Why she's— she's...." "World-famous. Yes, I know. And it was just a mighty wonderful stroke of luck that we got the story. That stroke of luck being one Carol Wilson, artist. Fact is, Maybelle wants you and only you to do the illustrations." The instant thrill of excitement melted the chill of Carol's thought that Brent wouldn't have called if he hadn't had to. But this was a chance she couldn't miss — to illustrate the work of such a famous 278 Go GREYHOUND for a carefree vacation 1. SCHOOLTEACHERS' CARAVAN TO MEXICO. Leave June 7, for 23 days. Go as far south as Acapulco, $225.00 2. SEE THE NORTHWEST AS FAR AS BANFF, CANADA. Nine days for $75.00 3. PALMYRA PAGEANT. Leave August 2. Visit most of the large cities and Church landmarks. Sixteen days for $195.00 4. FLY WITH EMPIRE TRAVEL SERVICE TO HAWAII in planes carrying 92 passengers. Transportation, hotels, and a complete tour of Oahu. Ten days for $248.00 5. EUROPEAN TOUR. Meals, transportation, hotels all for 54 days in 11 nations. $998.00 Write E. CECIL McGAVIN 1336 Roosevelt Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah Order an autographed copy of "MORMONISM AND MASONRY"...$2.25 @ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.... 35 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles...... Leave them at our ed uptown office. Deseret News Press 33 oa St. Ies ~ i un RD) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 author — and to be demanded! "Tll come down," Carol said into the receiver, "and do Maybell's job. Tl leave in the morning." "Good girl!" Brent sounded relieved. "I'll meet you as usual." Carol replaced the receiver and turned away. Good girl! Good girl! Come home and get to work! Forget Elizabeth's children! Forget Tony Muir! Forget everything but your paint and brushes.... Oh, Brent! She went slowly back to the game, but it wasn't fun any longer. As Tony told her goodnight, he held her hand and looked down at her. "Did I happen to overhear you say you were going to leave tomortow?" Carol nodded. "Yes, that was my boss. He has a special job for me to do." "Why don't you forget those special jobs, Carol — and all jobs? Why don't you take a long, long vacation — two or three months? You don't know how fascinating this country can be — with an expert to show you around. 'Tell your boss to get another artist, and spend the summer here!" His eyes, his voice were eager, compelling. So different from Brent Gibson's casual tone. Carol hesitated. "I don't know, Tony. But I'll have to go down and do this one job." "Come back, then, as soon as it's done!" "Maybe. I'll see." "It's a promise?" "Just a sort of promise, Tony — but a promise of sorts!" He laughed down at her. "I'll count the days. And I'll phone often to remind you." ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN Carol watched him as he ran across the porch and actually leaped into the convertible. He was so young! In spite of his successful mission, he wasn't much more than a boy. She turned slowly and went up to her room. She crossed to the mirror and studied her face. It's not a bad face, she thought. And it looks young, too. How strange, when I feel old enough to be the mother of Elizabeth's four! But I'm not, really! She frowned and turned away from the disturbing glass. (To be continued) Jn Spring Sudie Stuart Hager Spring is no impetuous maiden, Spring's a woman poised and sure; She's a wise and kindly matron; Works by method, not allure. None but such could nurture snowdrops In an atmosphere that chills, Make warm capes for pussywillows, Starch the hoods of daffodils, Stitch designs of gold on meadows, Help a tendrilled plant to climb, Urge a shy, young tree to blossom, Regulate the nesting time. Spring's a woman of experience, Not an amateurish Miss; Life is eagerly responsive, To her warm, maternal kiss. Proclama tion Pure Vermont Maple Syrup Vermont Grade A Gal. $8.95 1% Gal. $5.25 Qt. $3.25 Pint $1.90 Vermont Cheddar Cheese 5 Ib. $5.95 ALL SHIPMENTS POSTPAID Graham A. Clark P. O. Box 449 Brattleboro, Vermont LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Grace Ingles Frost Life waves a wand, above the earth And unseals nature's eyes— Makes violets and daffodils, And with their flowering fragrance fills The space that round them lies; Then bids the birdling voices rise, And wing respond to wing In proclamation.... It is spring. Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah 280 Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 ® English Temple Dedication We have several tours that will be in Europe for the English Temple Dedication. One for every pocket book. In addition we have made plenty of reservations on both the ship and plane for those who wish transportation only. @ Hawaii A Springtime tour leaving April 30th. It is unusually lovely. Write for day to day program. @ Hill Cumorah Pageant The Historic Train and Historic Bus tours both leave August 1, 1958. Make your reservations early. @ Northwest Inquire about this July tour. If the Church Recommends It— WE HAVE IT! Most complete stock of— CHORAL, VOCAL, PIANO and ORGAN MUSIC and FOLIOS The SACRED and SECULAR PIANO ALBUM BY SELDON N. HEAPS NEW — For Primary, Junior Sunday School and Relief Society Mail Your Orders To Glen Bros. Music Co. 74 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. Desste Newman Muipp. Ieton Los Angeles, California Ninety-seven Mrs. Dorotuy E. R. WiILLiAMs Beaver, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Saran SmirH Bourne Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaBeTH JANE RussELL Day Hunter, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. MINNETTA PERMELIA BROWN 'THORNE Manti, Utah Mrs. Maria P. THomMpson Ephraim, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mary Susan SizeEMorE Row Ley Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Minnie Sruart SHouP Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ADA ALEXANDER BONNER Midway, Utah Mrs. EmmMa Eastwoop Etwoop Hii Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. EvizABETH BuRTON FENTON Tooele, Utah Mrs. WINNIEFRED JOHNSON GUTHRIE Mesa, Arizona > S P rit U g Enola Chamberlin Now is spring upon us, Tiny leaves of green; Pussywillows looking Like pom-pom velveteen. Wild roses in the hedgerows, Dogwood in the hills; And in the gardens pansies And fluted daffodils. Across the plainlands poppies With cups of purest gold. Now is the spring upon us— All a heart can hold. Unforgettable words of inspiration from a great Apostle DR. ADAM S. BENNION While memory lasts, "The Candle of the Lord" will yekindle the glow of inspiration which the gifted, friendly spirit of Adam 8. Bennion brought to the thousands who enjoyed hearing his amiable voice. His personality was a catalyst which sparked the personalities of others to noble action. His ideas furnished the fire and his enthusiasm fanned the flame. In this book he speaks again on themes which filled his heart: the spiritual life, love of country, his dedication to youth and his fellow men and the faith he had in their noble potentialities. $3.75 | Gentlemen: | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order | ( ) | have an account. Please charge for encircled num- | } 2 \ | —— | | Address | | City - Zone State \ | Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. \ ee Why 1 Ama Mormon SENATOR WALLACE F. BENNETT bo | ef Bennet! Wallac In a clear style Senator Bennett covers the carpoints of LDS | dinal doctrine, giving the Church's teachings on the plan of salvation, the nature of man, mortality and immortality, Jesus the He also vividly describes events in Christ, and God. LDS history and concludes with a personal testimony. $2.75 bered) books: | h as arctic eXe—suc who puild Some peopl and small boys riously perched treehouses— ive dangerously. But most to play safe..-& s to home plorers preca like to | of us prefer when it come Specially and family. Y one thing more Pan a home without a s a mother witha home. Tf the privilege of livn a home while you are payis worth 5 or 6% interest, he knowledge that your lways have that home worth the addit t it costs for m Beneficial Mortakes all the difThere is onl thetic tha mother—and that' out ing 1 ing for it then t family will a there must be 1% or 2% tha jonal ortgage insurance. Gage Insurance M ference. 2a Lae Check up now on your householding foresight - + ° Send for free folder "The House That Jack | Built." \ City - Utah Name Street or RFD -.--- ss. I City Bird on an Orchard Bough Christie Lund Coles Bird, what are you singing on this petaled bough, Blooming between the time of bud and fruit; What is your song, is it a paean of how The seed was planted and the tree took root; Of how the brown soil mothered it; and sun, And rain, like gentle fingers, urged it up Until this bright-leafed wonder was begun— An orchard, lifting skies a perfumed cup? Bird, what are you singing... Is it a song Of promises of beauty incarnate Within the smallest thing where hope is strong Lifting the spirit, long disconsolate? Is it to me you sing, of life and May, Upon this fragrant, iridescent day? = The Cover: Shoreline and Sandy Beach, Punta (Point) Ballena, Uruguay "Foto Mandello," submitted by Louise B. Parry Frontispiece: Almond Blossoms Near San Juan, California Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar The story "Inherit the Earth," by Tene H. Kingsbury in the March 1958 issue of the Magazine is truly a masterpiece. 'The writing is beautifully sensitive, yet restrained, and the quiet strength of the pioneer woman is revealed with much artistry. Let us hear again from Mrs. Kingsbury. —Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah I observed with interest the beautiful netting in the November 1957 issue of the Magazine, and thought perhaps you might be interested to know how my grandmother, Nancy Shafter Perry, did it. She did not have a shuttle or other equipment, so Grandpa whittled her out some large needles of wood. They had large eyes, and Grandma had a way of putting the thread in many times so that it formed a very long thread to work with without tying new threads all the time. Then she had her sticks, etc., and she did beautiful work. One thing she made was a bedspread, which my daughter really prizes. —Florence Thurston Ogden, Utah Each issue of The Relief Society Magazine is an inspiration to me. I love the stories. "Fifty Singing Aprils," in the February issue, by Mabel Law Atkinson, the second prize story, is beautifully written, with a great depth of love and tenderness to inspire all of us. I look forward for each Magazine to arrive and wish to thank everyone who makes it so beautiful and inspiring. —Mrs. Orlena Armell St. Charles, Idaho I always enjoy the Magazine, especially the story edition (April). Of course, I gain most from the lessons, and, being a stake leader, they are vital to me. But for plain enjoyment I read the stories and poetry. —Sadie H. Greenhalgh Nephi, Utah Page 282 I don't know what I would do if my Relief Society Magazine arrived on a day when I couldn't take time off to read it. Even the busiest days, I can't put it down until I have read it from cover to cover. My husband and I were pleasantly surprised to see the picture of Dr. Russell Nelson and his family and the lovely article written by his sweet wife Dantzel in the February issue. Dr. Nelson helped the Lord spare my life while in Boston, for which we are so extremely grateful. Because of this marvelous blessing I have been given the opportunity of being Relief Society president, and I gain so much from the wonderful companion, The Relief Society Magazine. —Grace S. Mortimer La Marque, Texas Although I am a man, I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine as much as my Relief Society sister does. I worked with Relief Societies in Missoula, Montana, about thirty years ago, also in Idaho in two different wards. May I say I have never worked with finer, cleaner, or sweeter ladies than those sisters were. I am past eighty-two years and have been a Church member since 1897. I am the oldest member in Missoula Ward. —Ariel G. Nielsen Missoula, Montana Just a line to express my appreciation for Mabel Law Atkinson's beautiful poem "Perfect Prelude' in the January 1958 issue of the Magazine. Her last thought: "T never knew the mellowed years could be the perfect prelude to eternity," is so wonderful and so true.... We appreciate not only the Magazine, but also the wonderful material given us for Relief Society work. The lessons are outstanding. Many thanks. I have had the privilege of serving in Relief Society more than forty-five years and feel it has been a splendid experience. —Elizabeth H. Welker Salt Lake City, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - " First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - ~ - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Louise W. Madsen Glaay s S. Boyer Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 MAY 1958 NO. 5 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Mother's Influence in the Home Mary R. Young 284 In Memoriam—Oscar Ammon Kirkham -. Antoine R. Ivins 286 Song for a Daughter 2.0........... EssceeeceececcececeeceseeceeceeecceestensceeesenecenecaseanecesasaesocsenaeeceenensMabel Law Atkinson 287 The Prophet Joseph Smith's Tribute to His Mother ooo... Eee eeeeec eee eeeeceeecenecececteeeeocneseeaeconensnaceerconees 287 The Uruguayan Mission Contest Announcements—1958 oui... Eeeececcenceccecscecesseneecscceseecesnesoscessecscosseessasenscceaeesssoneeeeneecsseeesnecseeesseneeceeeeees Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest........... Ccsesecseseeeeseees. Beaocecerereeeaves cone es 580 Relief Society Short Story Contest 22.0.2... Ccccceecccceeeccceeeeececereeeeceeceneeeeeccceseecsenseeseserenecscesneesscerenmecseees 291 The Gift and the Desire... Alice Morrey Bailey 292 Why Not Write a Story?............... W..... Helen Hinckley Jones 296 All 'Ou—al Ages—Polio Vaccination Roundup ne: ee Virginia L. Blood 309. Young Men Shall See Visions"....... C. Ceeecceceeceececceeeeceeceececeeeeeeeccseensece 310 FICTION Papa and His Grapes........ SscsssscsecscesccsesseececerccecccerseccececceorscessceeseeenceeenrerenserseneesereeseneesFlorence B. Dunford 301 Elizabeth's Children—Chapter 5 = Olive W. Burt 320 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 282 Simin WetebS JRO cece sere crenrececoco cco ERC 304 Woman's Sphere........ Ee. Ee. Ramona W. Cannon 305 Editorial: Making Right Choices -00.........2--sseeecsceceecceeeeeeeeee eons Marianne C. Sharp 306 Notes to the Field: Brigham Young University Leadership Week 308 Brigham Young University Southern California Leadership Week.......... 309 Magazine Honor Roll for 1957 Marianne C. Sharp 324 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations —-Hulda Parker 333 344 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Uruguayan Mission Louise B. Parry 312 You Can Sew—Ill. Fitting -..0........... EssceccscssscecccsesceescssessaceccsorsneaesseserensnescseeenenasserenesJean Ridges Jennings 318 Mollie McClain Boel Enjoys Lifelong Hobbies 323 POETRY Bird on an Orchard Bough—Frontispiece: Christie Lund Coles 281 White Lilacs oo... Cecceeceeeeeeeeeeeeneee —_ Grace Zenor Pratt 307 My Mother's Trust. O..... CccsccccsssssscsscssscssecsnssssssecsssessnsssesssanssesecsnseesctecseecerecsceneenesceseeeereeeetaeeesHannah C. Ashby 311 Recompense.............000 'a. Cnaseneneess Hazel M. Thomson 31} Precious Episode.... Dora Toone Brough 313 FROSiYANIICt F.... Ctttccecec.. Cocvescceesosesececce-osnagssnencernesconasasnavasnesasencenensnenaseseansesenseascceneneasencencraeecceredGrace Ingles Frost 323 A Mother's Way...... -. Iris W. Schow 339 Creénysoy) ley rcPansye H. Powell 341 Mother's Letters.........-. Eseeee; _.. Emma Ann Bigelow 342 SOMESR LTH Scan cee ee a eo cancasccecareeosseeesecsrscsenseemeneaeeeenesnmLeslie Savage Clark 342 God's Gift to Me —— Bernice D. Savage 343 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. UO MEMTAISH).......0....-.00s ttrersessnsttttterersovscene ou setetesessceenerosnceceensece.... Frances C. Yost 314 Mother's Influence in the Home Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society EW subjects have received more attention by writers than that of mother and home. It always has been and always will be a subject of vital importance to the individual, the community, the nation, and the world. John A. Widtsoe said: "As the mothers are so the nation is likely to be. That is the responsibility of woman and the blessing to mankind." As we ponder over these words we realize the great responsibility and privilege of motherhood. This word has radiated a fragrance of love and devotion from the beginning of time. The beauty and power of a mother's love cannot be equaled in any other facet of life. Her love, devotion, kindness, her understanding and courage are found among all races and in all parts of the world. Her deep love for her children may even create within her breast a constant conflict. Love to her is not always joy and happiness. While she is expressing her kindness and understanding to her loved ones, at the same time she may be going through the pangs of pain and sorrow within her heart. Indeed, it has been truly said the bravest battles ever fought have not taken place on the battlefields of the world, but have courageously taken place in the hearts of the mothers of men, and those battles have gone on and on in every generation from the beginning of time. It is the desire and hope of almost every mother to live in such a way that "her children rise up and call Page 284 her blessed." But mothers are only human, after all, with weaknesses and imperfections; they are ever cognizant of their shortcomings and of mistakes that are made. However, Latter-day Saint mothers are particularly fortunate and blessed to have the enlightened understanding and knowledge of the principles of the gospel, with prophets to guide, direct, and impress upon them the great responsibility of maintaining homes according to the teachings of the Church. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). Do mothers stop to realize how much their influence in the home affects the destiny of their children, not only in this life, but also in eternity? Unfortunately, some do not realize this truth or do not let first things come first; because we frequently hear remarks of this kind. "T am just a housewife and mother, I am tired of caring for children and doing housework all day. I would really like to do something worthwhile before I get any older." What profession or career could compare with successfully building and molding character and rearing a family in righteousness? What could be more worthwhile? We have been commanded to do this, "and they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D & C 68:28). President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in advising Latter-day Saint women on MOTHER'S INFLUENCE IN THE HOME their responsibilities as mothers and homemakers said:... May God... Give you the vision of the true homemaker, that you will be able to save by this course, not alone Zion, but the world. And that is your destiny... To save the world (President J]. Reuben Clark, Jr., The Relief Society Magazine, December 1949, page 798). HILDREN require more than food, clothing, shelter, and scholastic instruction to learn the essential qualities of character. In the home mother has the opportunity to start in infancy to teach by precept and example these qualities that are so essential to them in later life. It is in the home that personality characteristics are indelibly stamped. I will be eternally grateful to my mother for her teachings and influence for righteousness in our home, and for the lessons her life has taught me. She instilled into her five children a burning testimony of the gospel, a testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ, and that obedience to the commandments and principles of the gospel would bring joy, happiness, and exaltation hereafter. Courage and determination in times of sorrow, stress, and strain; to push forward and overcome adversity have been some of her outstanding qualities and ones we could still emulate. Mother, left a widow before the birth of her last child, taught us by example to accept assignments or whatever we were asked to do and then go forward to accomplish them to the very best of our ability, stressing the necessity of effort and work. She was never afraid of work. She has always been loyal and devoted to the cause of truth — an inspiration to her children and grandchildren. 285 When reflecting on the home of my childhood, I cannot help but recall the influence my two grandmothers had on my early life. Both were noble pioneers, with faith and determination always to stand for right. They also taught spirituality, obedience, service, and love for one's neighbor. My grandmothers always had time to minister to the sick and help someone who was in need. Yes, I am truly grateful for my heritage and for the example that was set for me to follow. There is a definite challenge to mothers today. Problems, — situations, and times are different from what they were in the days of our pioneers, however there will always remain certain basic principles and truths that should be taught in the home, such as honesty, truth, and chastity. Motherhood will continue to be a career of sacrifice, service, patience, understanding, and love throughout all ages. Love will continue to be of paramount importance in the home. You may have a palace and yet not have a home. You may live in just a log house and yet have a glorious home, if within 'those four walls there permeates the divine principle of love, love that draws a family together, love that calls for obedience, love and faith in God. Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. It would be well for us to remember the words of President David O. McKay, who advised the Relief Society sisters on one occasion: "That increased attention be given and more intensified efforts put forth to maintain and preserve the digmity of motherhood" (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1950, page 799). Gn ITlemoriam Oscar Ammon Kirkham JANUARY 22, 1880 - MarcH 10, 1958 Elder Antoine R. Ivins Of the First Council of the Seventy ARLY in the morning of March 10th of the current year, Oscar Ammon Kirkham gave up the problems of mortality and passed on to his eternal reward. His going closed a life of great activity and useful service to his Church and his fellow men. He used his varied talents always in the interest of people and in his thinking, people were reduced to individuals as varied as their number. Men and boys usually were the subjects of his interest and service and it can be said that they always benefited by contact with him. A portion of his life was devoted to the study and teaching of music, but the greater part was given over to the Boy Scout work with which he was associated from the time it became a part of the Mutual Improvement program. In this service he touched the lives of literally thousands of young men upon whom his influence was always helpful and beneficial. 'These young men comprised many differing nationalities, and no one could come nearer harmonizing their thinking than Oscar. I have had scouters in far off Hawaii tell me that no one in the National Councils could do more to iron out difficulties than Oscar Kirkham. He did a wonderful work and merits the thanks of thousands of men who once were boys under his guidance. After a long and most active service as above set forth, Oscar was Page 286 PRESIDENT OSCAR A. KIRKHAM brought into the First Council of the Seventy under appointment of President Heber J. Grant. In this capacity he developed the same interest in the Seventies of the Church which he had displayed in dealing with the Scouts. His interest in the Seventies was in men rather than in organizations. Always he strove to develop a pride in the assignment which ordination as a Seventy gave a man. Always he strove to teach the individual responsibility of a Seventy, realizing that in_ the strength of the individuals is to be found the strength of the group. No man reaches his maximum development without the aid of a fine supporting wife and Oscar was no OSCAR AMMON KIRKHAM exception. In all his efforts his good wife stood at his side aiding and abetting him in his missions. 287 of May 1904, and from that union came four sons and four daughters all worthy of their ancestry. Theirs He married Ida Murdock in the Salt Lake Temple on the 25th day Song for a Daughter Mabel Law Atkinson is the problem of carrying their father's name into the future. 7! Mother's Day I would sing my song of love and gratitude for you, my daughter. Sweet is the song you have sung to me throughout the years, not alone on my special day, but on each and every day as it came, not only when I had you at home with me, but in your abundant and fulfilling years since your marriage. Always your song of laughter and gaicty has echoed through the dark corridors I have walked and lifted my downcast eyes to see the light of hope shining in God's beautiful world. Your song of faith and courage has been my staff on which to lean in my shadowed years, to keep me from sinking into the bitterness of despair. Always, through sunlight and shadows, you have beautified and blessed with your liltingly happy and glad refrains which only the mothers of daughters know. So from a brimming heart, 1 smg my song of love in praise of you; in gratitude for the priceless blessings that are mine because of you. Dear little grown-up girl, listen and hear in this recounting of your song to me, my song for you. Listen, and you will hear the joyous and reverent singing of my heart when you were cradled beneath it; its swelling melody at your first cry—the sweetest music heard. Hear the notes of exultance as you, a perfect little flower of humanity— the live doll for whom I had yearned since a small child—were placed in my waiting arms. Hear the tones of awe and wonder as I watched vou growing and made little dresses for you, and curled your hair; as I saw you taking part in Sunday School and Primary, in school programs, in high school and college activities and in Mutual. Listen and you will hear in my song the added overtones of beauty when you confided to me that the one man had told you of his love. That was when you whispered to me—it was just past midnight and you had wakened me—''Mama, he holds me at my best." Listen, and clarion-clear will come in winging, mounting crescendos the reverence and gratitude, the humility and pride in my soul as I walked with you the temple aisles and saw the wonder on your face and received from your eyes the flash of understanding of all that lay ahead in your never-ending journey of happiness. Dear, precious girl of mine, can you hear the rapturous lyrics of the stars in my song because of the renewed fulfillment I receive each time vou place a new little grandchild in my arms? Now I watch you welcoming and caring for each new baby with a joy w hich passeth understanding, and you still find the time to go bevond your own walls to serve others of the Master's children, as you grow in sweetness and compassion. So listen, my daughter, on this Mother's Day, to my song of gratitude in praise of you. She Prophet Joseph Smiths Tribute to His Mother Y mother is one of the noblest and the best of all women. May God grant to prolong her days and mine, that we may live to enjoy each other's society long, and to breathe the free air (D. H. C. V, page 126). The Uruguayan Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian N May 1947, the First Presidency announced that a new mission of the Church would be established in the country of Uruguay, South America, with Fredrick S. Williams of South Gate, California, as president. This was the third mission for President Williams in South America; he had served in the South American Mission from 1927 to 1929, and as President of the Argentine Mission from 1938 to 1942. After his release from the Argentine Mission, President Williams had spent several years in Uruguay as an employee of the United States Government. He was therefore well qualified to preside over the new mission. President Williams and family arrived in Montevideo during the latter part of August 1947. He soon purchased a mission home, where a meeting was held on September 7th, with nine people in attendance. The work of proselyting has continued since that time. After having served faithfully for almost four years, as the first president of the Uruguayan Mission, President Williams was released in July 1951, and was succeeded by Elder Lyman S. Shreeve. President Shreeve was presiding in January 1954, when the Uruguayan Mission was visited by Courtesy Oficina Nacional de Turismo del Uruguay Photograph submitted by Afton K. Shreeve A COUNTRY SCENE, LAVELLEJA, URUGUAY Page 288 THE URUGUYAN MISSION 289 Courtesy Oficina Nacional de Turismo del Uruguay Photograph submitted by Louise B. Parry VIEW OF PUNTA DEL ESTE, MALDONADO, URUGUAY President David O. McKay, who was making a tour of the South American missions. President McKay was accompanied by Mrs. McKay and their son Robert. On January 30, 1954, at Montevideo, President McKay laid the cornerstone "of the first complete Church edifice, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, built in South America." President Shreeve served as mission president until September 1955, when he was succeeded by Frank D. Parry. After a brief illness, Sister Louise B. Parry, wife of President Parry, died at Montevideo, on June 7, 1956. With the help of his daughter, Sharon Louise Parry, President Parry continued to preside over the mission until March 1958, when he was succeeded by Arthur M. Jensen. On December 31, 1957, there were 1,800 members of the Church in the Uruguayan Mission, located in thitty-two branches. Twenty-eight Relicf Society organizations, with 578 members, were reported in December 1957. Lois Geniel Hansen Jensen presides over the Uruguayan Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Shoreline and Sandy Beach, Punta (Point) Ballena, Uruguay," was submitted by Louise B. Parry, former President of the Uruguayan Mission Relief Society. See also "Recipes From Uruguay," by Sister Parry, page 312. Contest Announcements—1958 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1958 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. Beginning this year the amounts of the prize awards for poetry have been increased from $25, $20, and $15, to $40, $30, and $20; and for stories, from $50, $40, and $30, to $75, $60, and $50. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on story writing and poetry which appear in this Magazine and similar articles in the May issue 1955, 1956, and 1957, and in the June issue for the preceding nine years. Gliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1958. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize................-----$40 Second prize..........-.-....-$30 Third prize................--.-$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Page 290 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poems. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. ELIZA R. SNOW POEM CONTEST 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational 291 institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the followinig points: Message or theme. Form and pattern Rhythm and meter. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1958. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Uoece Reliof Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1958 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1958. The prizes this year will be as follows: Ping bPTIZe _.......-...-.--------$75 Second prize.............--- 60 Third prize -...............-.--$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1959. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retamed by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one 292 literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not Jater than August 15, 1958. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. She Gift and the Desire Alice Morrey Bailey INE poetry, like good music, speaks to the soul, and the reader is conscious only of its message, its singing, its color, or its mood. Only close analysis and examination reveal the mechanism used by the author to gain the results. If the attention of the reader is diverted to the author by untrue premise, inconsistent metaphor, or limping technique, the senses are jarred, sometimes indefinably, as by a false note in musical rendition. The perfect balance of talent and techniques is required to produce lasting and beloved poetic work. The talent for writing poetry is a special gift—something innate, inborn, like the gift for music, which gives a deep appreciation, perhaps a more sensitive perception, a quick compassion. It may be a great capacity for emotion, an ability to see beauty or goodness or greatness. There can be something of the sage in the makeup and, for the sake of publication, a dash of intuition. Certainly there must be a sense of music and rhythm. There are recognizable steps to become a poet, from amateur to seasoned writer—the ripening of the personality, the mastering of the skills and learning necessary for sustained production. For the beginner, talent is enough for a time, as he feels his way about, strengthens his identity, before he comes in contact with other poets and their ways of self-expression. Young people without much knowledge or training quite often write with freshness of quality from a superabundance of emotion and appreciation. They are not familiar with styles, which can easily be copied, the THE GIFT AND THE DESIRE cliches which trap the well-read poet, nor the loved expressions of other poets which linger in the mind to make partial and unwitting plagiarists of the more experienced writers. But alas! Though we must remain vibrant and intense, and in love with the world about us, we cannot continue to be young and charmingly inexperienced. Progression by learning is necessary for a continued, consistent performance. If the will is not strong enough to hurdle the knowledge needed and master the craftsmanship of polishing, the gift will become recessive or degenerate to the ability to write only jingles with superficial meaning. HILE natural talent is necessary, some gifted people overemphasize its importance and think it is unnecessary to expose it to learning. To have "never taken a lesson in my life" in any of the arts should be an indictment, not a point of pride with the talented. Competition is not a matter of talent versus learning, but a matter of untrained talent versus trained talent, before which untrained talent and untalented learning are at equal disadvantage. Goal and direction should be determined early. What is the poet's desire? 'To have one or many published poems? 'To earn money by writing poetry? To be known in intellectual circles as a poet? 'To be remembered after death? All these are surely measures of success, rewards or penalties, according to the viewpoint, but they are not the end product. Should not the poet's aim be higher? To mirror the world in a droplet of water, to catch time in a prism of words, to hold dramatic 293 moment in eternal tableau, to preserve the blossomed bough against the season's turning, are challenges to his pen. If his words carry the power of motivation—to move men to love and honor their surroundings, to think more beautifully, to achieve more nobly, to know more truly—then he tastes the true measure of success. To One Wuo Woutp Be A PoET You must bear loneliness, silence, And the starless night, You must see darkness as The counterpart of light. You must hear the crunch of leaves And sequin-crusted snow, And ache with the awareness The anointed know. You must hear the whine of wind Through the barren tree And cry out in anguish And affinity. You must thirst forever At beauty's silver spring. You must fall beaten to the earth Then rise again and sing. —Christie Lund Coles* A symphony orchestra, playing the masterworks, would not use a toy piano, tin trumpets, and cardboard drums. Nor would it appear before the public with only enthusiasm and gusto in place of tedious rehearsals; yet many poets, desiring to rush into print, limit themselves as ludicrously. A scientist, preparing a study, first reads the "'literature," all things previously written on the subject. Poetry can be approached as a science, inasmuch as it can be a department of systematized knowledge. Good books on technique can not only hurry the poet toward maturity in his work, but can keep the interest at high pitch and pro- 294 gressive. He can develop the sureness of specific knowledge — the poetry terms by name and definition, the various rhythms and meters, accent, delayed accent, feminine and masculine endings, to name a few. He can become proficient with writing in form, suiting form to poem, the ballad, the lyric, the sonnet. He can exercise his ingenuity with rarer forms like the triolet and the cinquain as well as the quatrain and the couplet. Poetry forms can become as familiar to him as the limerick is to the field of advertising. It is not suggested that a poet confine himself to form, particularly any set form. In fact, the contraction of the "sonnet habit" is so prevalent as to have brought this beautiful and exacting form into disfavor with many writers and editors. Whitman made his own form, not from a lack of knowledge of the established ones, but from a fierce nationalism, a lusty desire for individualism, and a feeling that his was a new-world voice which should have cast off the old; but it was his mighty thinking and his heroic words which preserved his poetry for us. It is suggested, however, that learners need the discipline of writing in forms for facility and variety, for virtuosity and mastery. * bs * x Almost it was she made her mind a loom, And words, the glowing threads, wherewith she wove _ A tapestry of life.... —Margery S. Stewart? WERDS are a poet's tools. With them he chisels his poems from the rough marble of his thoughts, or molds them from the vague clay of an idea. A good dictionary and a thesaurus should be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 his much-used handbooks. Some bizarre effects are tried with word misuse in modern poetry; whatever the reason, it should not be from ignorance of the true meaning of the word, and never from incorrect pronunciation or spelling. He should properly apply diction, the choice and pronunciation of words, their use in proper order, so that he may avoid inversions and vagaries. 'The artistic writer uses understatement rather than overstatement, but employs words rich in overtones, which send the mind on journeyings. The rhyming dictionary is a good servant, but a poor master, and should be used with wisdom. _ Its consultation too early in writing a poem can intrigue the mind from its original intent by the presentation of interesting rhyme schemes. Prosaic tools are parts of artistry. Ww OK OK OK Above the painted chasm Rides the Silver Navajo; He wears a brace of silver spurs That strike an eerie glow. With eagle haste he rides To leap the wide abyss And none can find his trail In all the wilderness. (The river chants a red refrain, Driven by the flood and rain.) —Vesta P. Crawford? Imagery and metaphor are the poet's brushes, nuance, overtones, undertones, diction, his full range of colors. With them he paints with telling strokes, appealing to the senses and emotions so vividly that the swell and pound of the sea, the desert's coyote wail, the mystic canyon's red become a part of the reader's experience; his first visits to them are only confirmations of what he already has known and felt. Rhythm, meter, letters, and syl- THE GIFT AND THE DESIRE lables are the tones of the poet's singing. Milton used the sibilant "s" to denote the presence of the oe Many an unwitting poet has filled his spring poems with hisses. Poe used the repeated long vowel tones to create mood in "The Raven," a poem so phonetic that even children recite it without regard to meaning, just for the joy of the sound. All poetry should be written for the ear. Many a poem pleasing to the eye or the mind sounds strident or stilted when read aloud. For this reason Whitman strode the beaches where he could be alone, reciting his long lines into the wind. It is suggested that all techniques be learned by theory and practice, then relegated to the subconscious in the category of tools, and not, as some artists do nowadays, let the tools, color, design, form, become the painting, used as the end product. With them in the background, the trained mind is ready for the free flow of ideas, the natural speech thythms, and can draw forth lyrics without interference. All knowledge hinted at here, and much more, is available to the determined craftsman. Books are readily catalogued to the fingertips of 295 librarians and generously loaned; even by mail, magazines are published with specific help and suggested markets; universities offer many courses in poetry appreciation and creative writing; writing conferences bring personal contact with editors and the renowned in the field; competitions whet the skill. The desire and the obligation of the gifted can afford to pass by none of these. With the universe full of subject matter, the genius of the poet is limited only by his own capacity and his own will, and need not stop at even Shakespearian performance. There are heroes in the world today just as there were in the times of Homer, and giants to portray as in the days of the ancient Greek dramatists, Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. No part of the world's history is more significant than now. The poetry of the masters has been preserved for our reading from farther back in history than has been any other form of writing. 'Those who have gone before are measures only of what man has done, not of what he is capable of doing, providing he has the gift and the desire to use it well. Poems QUOTED 1. Coes, Curist1E Lunp: Star, page 68. 2. STEWART, page 175. 3. CRAwForD, Vesta P.: Marcery S.: "A Novelist I Once Knew," "To One Who Would Be a Poet," from Of Stone and from Utah Sings, II, "The Silver Navajo," from Of Stone and Star, page 75. REFERENCES Bracxmurr, R. P.: Form and Value in Modern Poetry, Doubleday Anchor Books, 575 Madison Avenue, New York City 22, New York, $1.25. Foucuaux, Mane cine: First Aid for Limping Verse, Camas Press, P. O. Box 3857, North Hollywood, California, 75c. HamILTON, ANNE: 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio, $1.50. How to Revise Your Own Poems, Writer's Digest, 22 East Hitiyer, Rosert: First Principles of Verse, Writer's Digest, $2.00. Why Not Write a Story? Helen Hinckley Jones OU want to write a short story. Well, why not? Go ahead and write it. Don't read a book on how to write it; don't go to a lecture and note down a dozen rules; don't even read this article until after you have written it. 'That is, unless you are able to put these suggestions in the back of your mind and forget them. I've seen too many writers get paralysis through analysis. Worrying too much about the how of writing keeps you from living in the what. Perhaps you have the story already in your mind and heart. A story needs to live with you in both these regions, in order to be a really good story. Maybe you have carried it with you for years. Maybe it occurred full bloom to you last night. But, if you don't have a story, you can still create one. Notice the word is create and not contrive. Are you old enough to remember how the balky pump used to be primed? You can prime your mind, too, and sometimes by priming you get a surprising flow of good story ideas. Here are a few pump primers. See if you can recall—through your emotions, not through your mind — some moment in your own life that had a powerful emotional impact upon you. Did you ever feel really lighthearted, really brokenhearted, really buoyed up? If you have felt these emotions, or a hundred others, see if you can coax the same reaction back into your physical body. See if you can feel again. This is one ability that is shared by most creative people. If you can, Page 296 then the situations in which you felt this way will occur to you and you will have an idea or incident out of which to make a story. You may not be able to do this. If not, here is a purely mental primer. Think of some person whose life has touched yours. You are not going to tell his story. 'That would be biography. You think of this character until you can lift him out of his time and place. You know his strength and his weakness. Now vou say, "What if...?" You put this person into many many situations and try to imagine how he would react to these situations. You will probably catch on to a story. Very frequently I use my father in my books and stories. | "knew him so well. You see I knew him almost as well as I know myself, because we were much alike. If I need to get really inside the character of a man, I give him the same combination of material and spiritual qualities which I know so well. In my novel, The Mountains Are Mine, my Amos Farnsworth has my father's wisdom and patience and reliance on God. Still another primer is to think about universal truths in which you really believe. You can start with Poor Richard's Almanac, or you can start with Proverbs in the Bible. What do you deeply believe? Now you create a character who does not believe this thing and allow her to have the experiences which will bring her to the point where she will agree with you. Don't try to create a story in a day. Figure on doing a great deal WHY NOT WRITE A STORY? Of "brooding" on your idea. Let the idea mature and ripen and take form before you try to put it down on paper. I know that many good stories have been written in the fire of a moment's inspiration. I know even more that haven't. A famous short story writer recently said that one of her stories took her twentytwo years before an _ incident touched the whole idea off and made it into a story. But maybe you had better not wait twenty-two years, if you plan to enter this year's Relief Society Short Story Contest! ANYWAY, now you have a story to tell and your problem is to tell it. My advice is to get where you can enter the mood of the story. One author who writes graphic stories of the South Seas has one corner of a room with books about the islands on low shelves, a map of the area on the wall beside him. He studies the map and the pictures until he "goes under," as one might go under an anesthetic. Then he writes. The important thing is to write as fast as you can and as freely as you can. I try to remove my conscious mind from the whole operation and tap a deeper flow of creative energy. If I stop to worry about vocabulary or sentence structure, I'm lost. 'The day is lost. 'The story is lost. If you can do the story at one sitting, so much the better. I wrote while my girls were babies, so I know that that can't always be done. If you can't do the whole story at once, each time you take up your work, type the last page or so to get back into the flow. Now your story is finished. You don't know whether it is good or terrible at this point. Some writers always feel that the story just rolled 297 out of the typewriter is a masterpiece; some always feel that it must be nothing at all. Now put the story away for a few hours or a few days. This cooling off period is absolutely necessary. Don't neglect it. After this cooling off period, pick it up and read it for pleasure. Having read the story for enjoyment, you are ready for the hardest job of all: the revision. It is time to ask your story four questions. 1. Whose story is this? Do we feel strongly about the central character? 2. What do we want for the hero or the heroine? 3. What keeps us worried throughout the story? Is there a point at which we almost despair? 4. What dramatic event gives the character the thing we want her to have? These questions may seem elementary to you, but believe me, they are the test of a well-formed story. In asking them, we are excluding only one type of story—the epiphany or revelation. In this story the average reader sees only a character sketch or a mood piece. Actually, the writer has tried to open for the reader a long view into an otherwise dark world. These stories are difficult to read and difficult to write, so we won't bother with them right now. We want to tell a story that the people whom we know will read with more than pleasure. We want to communicate to our own peers, so give close attention to the answers your story gives to each of the following questions: 1. Whose story is this? Why, that's easy, you say. But it isn't. Frequently, other characters get into the way of a clean, pure story line. The story editor of four excellent 298 TV shows told me that his staff gets stories all the time in which they can't decide which role should be given to the "name star." Was the woman the star? The man? The heavy? A story like this is either rejected or rewritten. Keep in mind that the point-of-view character doesn't always own the story. We may see through the eyes of the child the story of the mother or of the big sister or the teacher; through the eyes of the mother, the story of the teenager suffering in the process of growing up. GENERAL rule—and rules have all sorts of variations—is that the owner of the story is the person who brings about the desired end. If the story belongs to the evil character something he does must bring his destruction. Now that vou have a finished story before you, you can see whether or not the central ante solves her own problem.. Frequently new writers get all tied up with the second question: What do we want for the hero or the heroine? That is because thev figure that the reader should agree with the central character about what the goal should be. This is sometimes true, but often it isn't. A hero may want revenge, and what we want for him is the ability to forgive. The heroine may want to marry a young scientist new in her town who has a different religious background; what we want for her is marnage with the clean-faced young student who shares her background. Once I invented a_ short-storv formula which I secretly thought might revolutionize story telling as did O'Henry's. I called it the social justice formula. In my story a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 lovable character was introduced, and the reader was encouraged to expect something good for him. In the end this deserving man didn't get what we wanted him to have— and he, himself, wanted — because of social injustice. In one story a tired little woman had given her life to supervising the ladies' room in a large department store. I knew such a lady, diminutive, bird-like, still with her heavy Cockney accemt. The a grew out of the "what if.... 3 ' train of thought. Anyway, the me, thought as the story progressed that the woman's boss was retiring her to a beautiful little apartment — sort of in gratitude for her faithful service. 'The reader discovered in the last line that the little woman was merely being given an advance peek at a newly decorated store powder room. I must have written almost forty stories on this formula, and I got them back from all the best places, sometimes with encouraging notes on the characterization. "Please try us again.' "Your next story may be more in line with our editorial policy".... 4 At last one editor was kind enough to be cruel. He wrote a note: "Society didn't cheat that woman. You did." HE reader should want something definite for the central character from a very early point in the story. Sometimes a story breaks in two because the author changes the want. Or a want is fulfilled and another one is introduced. Ask your storv if the reader knows what to want for the central character by the time she has finished the first page. Ask vour story if that want is fulfilled in the last paragraph. If you can answer both of these ques- WHY NOT WRITE A STORY? Tions with an absolute yes, you have a well-defined story line. Let's check on a story that fails to answer yes to these questions. You start with a lovable young woman. You want her to marry the nght man. She does. You want her to have a baby. She does. You want her to move to the country. She does. 'This story is like a string of sausages. You really haven't a story here no matter how well you tell it. Suppose, instead, that you start with a young woman who feels a deep hunger for something that she has never known. But the reader is more perceptive than this gir]; the reader knows what she wants. She needs to get away from the pressures of city life and find peace in country tranquility. At the very opening of the story the reader wants this, and can't see why the gitl doesn't see it, too. 'Then the right husband, the birth of the baby, are both moves toward what the reader wants for her—the relaxed life and peace of the country. 3. The things that keep a reader in suspense throughout a story differ so much with different stories that you may have to be your own judge as to whether the reader will be worried or not. But the reader wants to be worried, and he'll be disappointed if he isn't. More of my friends and students get their stories back marked predictable than for any other reason. Now look, you say, if the reader knows right at first just what she wants for this central character and knows that by the rules of story telling she'll have to get it, then isn't every story predictable? 'The answer is that if the story is considered as a mental puzzle it might be. However, if the story is well 299 written, and the obstacles and hurdles that are placed in the character's way are convincing, emotionally the reader will accept the story and worry. 'These obstacles shouldn't be contrived. 'They should grow out of the weakness of the character, the strength of her opponents, the influence of the environment. 'They must not be just made up. T is lucky for you that you have recently read Hamlet. Check the play again for the elements that kept you worried. Of course, since Hamlet is a tragedy, you did not get what you wanted for him, in a way. But you got what you felt deeply was the only thing that he could get, being the man that he was. If your story is all sweetness and light and flows along like a quiet stream, it may have charm, but it doesn't have drama, and it doesn't have suspense. I spoke earlier of the dark moment. That is the moment when the reader is almost sure that she is not going to get what she wants for the central character. Let me remind you that the character may be getting what he wants; he may be riding blindly toward the thing he wants and the reader be in agony because the hero is making such a great mistake. Recently I was teading of a young boy who wanted more than anything else to belong even though belonging meant joining a group of young criminals. I was gripped by the story because I watched him tentatively make overtures to this evil gang. He was about to find approval from the gang's leader, Rick, but he had to "take the test'—that is, do some criminal thing. I was so afraid that he wouldn't turn back in time! 300 N the other hand, if the reader wants the thing for the character that she wants for herself, the dark moment comes when she gives up hope and almost decides not to try further. Look over your story for the elements of suspense. Remember that they are as important in the quiet story of the inner life of a middleaged woman as they are in the physical life of a teenage boy. Something that I do very frequently myself and suggest that my students do, is to read published stories and test them in this same objective way. 4. Now for the dramatic event that brings about the desired end, whether it be a realization, a change of attitude, or a goal achieved. Don't use a fire, a flood, a dying child, an accident, unless this thing is a real part of your story from the very first. Your character must solve his own problem. See? Some woman who reads your story will involve herself in it. She will actually be your main character. The reason? She has the same problem. Unconsciously she will expect the solution in the story to be a possible solution for her. She is cheated if some disaster solves the problem. How can she possibly expect the same coincidence to happen to her life? Probably the weakest crutch that writers use is the parallel case. Margie sees what Mamie did or did RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 not do and "comes to realize." Perhaps you won't recognize the parallel case if you have used it. It can appear in many guises. Suppose I am a young housewife chafing because I am acquiring nice things for my house very slowly. I am envious of the carpets in my neighbor's house. One day I overhear a quarrel about installment payments between my neighbor and her husband and I realize that it is better to wait than to buy when one hasn't the money. That is a parallel case solution that is disguised by having the facts a little different. Do you see what I mean? Read several stories and see if this weakness is apparent. Remember the X scene is the climax and the story should end with drama. I realize that this advice is very packed! Why don't four or five of you who are interested in writing, or even in just reading, get together and read and discuss these suggestions. Then put them away in the back of your mind and write your story. But as you write don't think of the four questions. If you do you may freeze right at your desk. You will have paralysis by analysis. After the story is cold put it before you, ask it the questions, and make it talk back. If the story has failed in any way you can rethink it and rewrite it. It is most important that we attempt revision with clear vision. References Elwood, Maren: Characters Make Your Story, $3.50. Hamilton, Anne: How to Revise Your Own Stories, $1.50. Mirrieless, Edith M.: Story Writing, $3.00, Polti, Georges: Dramatic Situations, $2.00. These books may be ordered postpaid from Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio. Papa and His Grapes Florence B. Dunford N_ ordinary occasions Celia QO was glad to see her Papa, but not today. Jamie, her best beau, was coming to dinner. "Oh, Mama, why can't Papa just stay downtown this one evening?" she mourned now. Celia was nineteen, but still of an age that looks askance at plain-spoken, plaindoing fathers. Jamie, of course, was anything but plain. "He'll be all right, really he will," Celia's mother comforted her. She was rather red-faced herself, bending over, polishing the French Provincial furniture in their oldfashioned house with its high ceilings and square rooms. Celia's mother, when let alone, was a rather placid, cheerful, comfortable person, a trifle overweight, her gray eyes kind, really the motherly type. "Mother, you think the turkey will be done?" Celia worried, going toward the kitchen. "Oh, isn't this kitchen old-fashioned!" she cried, her voice desperate. Her mother, weary now, trudged in behind her. "Well, anyway, you're not." Celia was frowning over an etiquette book. "Mother, it says here..." Then her eye caught the big paper sack on the white tile counter. "Oh, Mother!" she wailed. "Papa and his grapes!" For an instant her mother seemed about to rush forward, too. Then she swayed back on her heels. "Oh, Celia! I thought the house was afire. Why can't you just accept the homely things your father does? After all, he's lived in our small comfortable town for all his forty years. And he really likes grapes." "Well, I don't like seeing a big paper bag cluttering up the counter. There's never any room in our tiny ice box. If I put them in a bowl, the fruit flies gather. "Oh, Mother," she wept, "can't you make Papa be formal this one night? Jamie's a city-bred man! His folks have had the same apartment on the crest of one of San Francisco's hills all his life." While Celia stuffed the bag of grapes inside a lower cupboard next to the tall, old-fashioned gas range, Celia's mother tried to reassure her. "Let's see now, you want Papa at one end of the dining-room table and me at the other end. You and Jamie across from each other. But your father always likes me to watch his plate," she went on. "He hates having to ask for things to be passed." "Well," Celia said, "I'll serve from the kitchen. I'll remove each course and bring in the next one. "And please, Mama..." her voice faltered, "please, Mama, don't let on that we don't eat that way all the time! Why, Jamie's mother has a maid! A real maid! Imagine what Jamie'd think if he saw the way we always eat family-style!" By now Celia had even her mother puzzled. "But we are a family." She lifted her chin a bit stubbornly. "Why shouldn't we eat familystyle?" "Because..."' Celia snatched up Page 301 302 the etiquette book again. "Because, it says here...." She broke off, "Oh, what's the use? I may as well give up. I'll never get Jamie. All those months at school simply wasted!" "THE moment Celia heard her Papa's old black sedan chugging up the driveway toward the one-car garage, Celia, with a last half-pleading, half-warning look for her mother, hurried upstairs. Going back and forth between her bedroom and the bath, she heard her mother and father talking in now low, now louder, tones. "Bless her," Celia murmured, grateful tears coming into her eyes. Because Mother was really telling Papa about his old-fashioned ways, the necessity of making the sort of impression Celia wanted on_ her hoped-for fiance. And, as_ usual, when Mother really meant business, Papa was listening. 'Though even now he was breaking in, grumbling about dinner being served at the unheard of hour of eight o'clock. "My father never ate supper after six in his life," he fumed. Celia's mother succeeded in calming him. "It's Celia's future that's at stake. She's nineteen. At that age you thought you knew what was best for you, too." Celia's mother had been so successful that, at a quarter of eight, just as the old-fashioned buzzer on the front door sang through the house, announcing Jamie, her father came from her parents' room downstairs, dressed in his tuxedo. As Celia flew down the stairs, her blue chiffon dress spreading fan-like around her, her dark-gold hair drawn back into a lady-like chignon, her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 grateful glance even noted his black bow tie, and cracked, but polished patent leather shoes. HERE in the small entrance-way with its fanlight, the rosepatterned paper on the walls, the friendly smell of turkey coming from the kitchen, Celia thought for one breathless instant that Jamie was going to kiss her. But tonight was different from times at college. This was Jamie's formal visit to meet her parents, to decide. Celia was so in love that she was past minding that her own decision had been made long ago, and_ that Jamie might know it. Dark-haired Jamie gave her his hat. Men, it seemed, still wore hats in San Francisco. San Francisco, Celia thought, with another catch in her throat, was perhaps one of the few formal cities left in the United States. Certainly in California. Celia's parents dutifully came into the living room, "parlor," Papa called it. "Jamie, I'd like you to meet my parents," Celia said, her voice a little high and shaky. "Mother, Papa, this is James Thornton." Papa started to rock back and forth on his toes, giving Jamie the once-over as he did in court. But, just in time, Celia's mother's hand touched his arm, reminding him that this time he was the judged. S far as Celia could determine, neither her father nor her mother behaved in any way but as quiet, modern, up-to-date parents, in their quiet, modern, up-to-date home. But there were times when Celia herself was a bit off balance. PAPA AND HIS GRAPES She wasn't used to bringing in, or taking away. Once, Papa got a bit impatient at having to ask for his second helping of turkey. Once, for some unknown reason, Jamie choked, really over nothing. But then he apologized at once, gulped from his goblet of water. And the quiet, rather dull dinner went on. Celia herself felt worn out when she had cleared the dessert plates and brought in the milkwhite glass finger bowls. But even at this unusual oceurrence, Celia could not detect any questioning in either of her parent's faces or manner The dinner and the beginning of the evening, she felt, had really gone off very well. Later, perhaps, Jamie would ask if she'd like to go to a movie or dance. Celia was unprepared when, rising from the sofa with a rather cold, faraway look in his dark, discerning eyes, Jamie asked if he could use the telephone. "T hate rushing off like this," he apologized, "but I'm due in San Francisco in the morning." Jamie was just through law school and mentioned something about a deposition. To make matters worse, Celia heard him discussing the possibility of changing his ticket. And then she knew, with a soul-sickening certainty, that for all her trouble, she had lost him. Celia's father and mother knew it, too. Celia saw the pitying glances they gave her, the look that passed between them. And then she simply couldn't... She couldn't bear the pretense a moment longer. Turning, she fled up the stairs. 303 [' was quite a while before Celia felt she could face her parents again. Jamie, of course, would be long gone. It was ungracious for her to have let him go without saying boodbye, but Celia was grateful to her parents for not calling her downstairs before he left. She took off the blue dress, scrubbed her face clean of make-up, unpinned her hair and scooped it into a pony tail behind. Now, clad in a clean but faded cotton dress, with white nylon flats on her feet, at least she felt herself. Neither her father nor her mother was in the living room with the television. Crossing through the dining room, she saw that the white linen cloth was still on the table. And so were the finger bowls. From the kitchen came voices. Straightening her shoulders, readying herself for her parents' sympathy, Celia pushed open the swinging door. The three people in the kitchen did not notice her entrance. Her mother was at the old-fashioned sink, washing dishes. Her father, minus his tuxedo jacket, was rummaging in the icebox. And Jamie— it was Jamie! And minus his coat, too, with one of Celia's faded old front aprons tied around his middle, a big white dish towel slung across one shoulder, was lounging against the high tile counter, his back toward her. '""Where're my grapes, Hattie?" Celia's father demanded. "Where'd you hide them this time?" Celia's mother turned part way around. "In the lower cabinet there, right beside you," she told him. (Continued on page 343) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN WAYNE STAKE: The Relief Society conference was held in the Thurber Relief Society hall. Meeting was called to order by Counselor Mary E. Hanks... Said she desired to see the young people step forward in the Church and prayed God to bless the sisters in their labors. Loa, Thurber and Grover branches were represented by their respective presidents. 'Teasdale, Cainsville, Aldrich and Giles were also reported by their representatives.... Stake President Jane S. Coleman was pleased with the reports given and felt to thank the Lord for the everlasting Gospel.... At our meetings we should make choice of elevating subjects, such as virtue, charity... Also to see that our records are kept in good condition. Spoke in very appreciative terms of what the Thurber Relief Society had accomplished.... Through their energy and the assistance of the brethren they have built a fine brick building.... —Annie O. Coleman, Sec. CLARA BARTON: Clara Barton has started for Cuba again with an army of women. 'They carry food for the starving, clothing for the naked, medicine for the sick and succor for the dying. Surely such soldiers as Red Cross women deserve to be voters! —News Note MOTHERS CONGRESS IN WASHINGTON, D. C.: The dispatches bring news of the Mothers Congress now in session in Washington and to which four... Utah women are in attendance. Hannah Sorenson, Augusta W. Grant and Hattie B, Harker, Salt Lake City, and Delia Booth of Provo. —News Note MARTIN LUTHER... Yet this brave and gifted leader Was tender in his love, In his care for wife and children He was gentle as a dove, In his character was mingled The stern, the fierce, the kind, Defiant when beset by wrong, Yet graceful and refined.... —Mary A. Freeze DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION: Our aim is high. It is to imbue our sons and daughters with the love of liberty and unity which are the greatest blessings vouchsafed a nation. Our object is to study the divine institutions of our country. To make ourselves familiar with the history of our country and with the lives of our great men and women.... —Clarissa L. S. Williams QUEEN WILHELMINA: A date in mid-September, 1898, will probably be the day upon which Queen Wilhelmina of Holland will formally take the oath of succession to the Dutch throne. No one could have shown more tact in managing affairs of state during her daughter's minority than the Queen Regent, who, like her sister, the Duchess of Albany, is a person of singularly unpretentious manners, —News Note Page 304 ONARO OVERSTREET is coauthor with her husband, Harty, of an excellent new book, The Mind Goes Forth. It calls for greater compassion, understanding, and patience toward our fellow human beings. It also comments on the tendency in colleges even in the scientific and technical schools — toward giving the liberal arts an important place in the curriculum. BETSY SNITE, famed skier from Norwich, Vermont, won the women's slalom in the Mont Lachaux trophy meet at Crans-surSerre, Switzerland. She was victorious over Madelaine Chamot-Berthod of Switzerland, the 1956 Olympic women's downhill champion. N'4NcCY LALLY, of Woonsocket, Rhode Island, is the top teenage crocheter of the United States, according to the judges of the 1957 national crocheting contest. She was awarded a prize of $soo. Her entry was a set of ten crocheted dolls. UTH MONTGOMERY, a reporter for the International News Service, won the 1957 George R. Holmes award for excellence in reporting. Mr. Holmes was a famed INS Washington Bureau chief, who died in 1939. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MBs. CAROLYN SCOGGINS, of Missouri, a graduate of Cordon Bleu School (for cooking) in Paris, operates a correspondence school of cooking, with suggestions added for creating top-bracket hostesses. Interesting questions and answers fly through the mail. Newlyweds, bachelors, housewives, and celebrities are among her clientele. RS. VADA F. CARLSON of Flagstaff, Arizona, is a writer who is particularly interested in American Indians. She was born in Nebraska near a Sioux reservation, has lived near the Klamath Indian reservation, and close to the Wind River reservation — home of the Shoshone and Arapaho tribes. She wrote, in collaboration with Mrs. Sheila Hart, We Saw the Sun Dance. She has also written a volume of poems, The Desert Speaks, and is now working with a gifted Hopi woman on a novel with authentic Hopi background. LICE M. ROBINSON, Director of Nursing Education, Vermont State Hospital, at Waterbury, Vermont, stresses the necessity for the feeling of love toward patients. "To be able to love even one patient with whom we work day by day in a mental hospital is assurance that that patient will begin to find the way back." Page 305 CG-—> EDITORIAL id VOL. 45 MAY 1958 Mlaking Right Choices HE glorious principle of free agency allows man to attain to eternal life. It has been bestowed by an all-wise Father upon his earthly children. When a child is born, parents know that the time will come when their child will have to make his own decisions and exercise his own free agency. Fortunate is the child who is guided to make right decisions during his growingup period. One Saturday night when Mother was laying out Johnny's clothes for Sunday School, he declared that he wasn't going the next morning. 'This situation arises in many households, and different parents may meet this situation in different ways. Johnny's mother drew him close to her and spoke of the love of their Heavenly Father for them both, and the wonderful opportunities he had given to Johnny to receive a body and be able to learn more and more in this life and hereafter. Then Mother spoke of the duties that Heavenly Father had given her and Johnny's father, to rear him in light and truth. She finished by kissing Johnny and telling him that Heavenly Father had given Johnny a spirit which would tell him what was nght and what was wrong. "I will leave you to decide for yourself, Johnny, whether you will go to Sunday School or not tomorrow. If you decide the right thing, you will be happy way inside, and then you will know you want to stay a part of our family. If you decide the wrong Page 306 thing, the spirit will let you know because you won't feel happy way inside." Leaving the decision to Johnny to make, with the constant home training which had preceded it, resulted in Johnny's going to Sunday School. Praise, commendation, and further training set the pattern for Johnny's attendance at Church meetings in future years, as well. He realized early that the decision to be good rested largely with him. Jane was given a dollar by her uncle. She could hardly wait to go downtown and buy a charm bracelet she had seen in the store window marked one dollar. Mother stopped the work she was doing and reminded Jane that she owned only ninety cents of the dollar. The other ten cents belonged to Heavenly Father. "T will change the dollar for you, and you can put the ten cents in this tithing bank," Mother offered. "But then I won't be able to buy my bracelet," Jane objected. "That is true," Mother replied, "but Heavenly Father has given us everything we have, and if we will only give him back one-tenth, he will give us blessings that will last forever. And it won't be long until you can earn eleven cents by helping me, and that will give you your ten cents and one cent for your tithing bank." Jane was faced with making her own decision. "Every time you look at your bracelet, you will feel happy," Mother concluded, "'because you will have made me, and EDITORIAL Daddy, and Heavenly Father happy, too. Here is the change of your dollar, and, if you decide to pay your tithing, put the ten cents in this bank, and run in the kitchen and let me hear it rattle." It was not long until a happy Jane was rattling the bank in her mother's ear. There are times when decisions cannot be left to children to make, no matter how careful the home training has been, but the more a mother can place choices before her child, and influence him to make the right choice, the brighter will be the outlook for the child's future. It is the small day-by-day deci- 307 sions which form the character of an individual. 'Throughout one's life, temptations continue to_ present themselves. When a choice must be made, fortunate is the person who can recall his mother or father pointing out the advantages and disadvantages of a certain situation. The encouragement given to him as a child to make right choices and the remembered feeling of well-being which followed, condition one's conduct in later life. 'Then one's own reason will dictate that choice which will lead to a bright eternal fulture. —M. C.5S. <>< WVhite Lilacs Grace Zenor Pratt 4..- When I think of spring in Utah, I remember lilacs— Lilacs white and lavender and blue.... And oh, my Mother, when I think of lilacs I remember you.... The little town we lived in, the poplar trees, the crystal stream, The brooding mountains; all my girlhood's dream Recalls those days; I was so thoughtless then— There were so many things I failed to da But through the years, my selfish heart has yearned To show my Mother all that I have learned— Of her true love of beauty, her great worth— All that she gave to me while here on earth. White lilacs.... I should love to go and lay upon my Mother's grave A great armful of scented blossoms; She loved them so— And somehow I still feel that she may know I have not forgotten through the changing years, When I would offer flowers wet with tears. I never knew when I was young, How aging mothers feel, Until I, too, come close to evensong— Kindness and love and tender sympathy to bless; And time to comfort with a soft caress... And now, I offer lilacs fragrant, white, Before I go— Forgive me, Mother, for at last... I know. Woteds. TO THE FIELD Brigham Young University Leadership Week 35TH ANNUAL "FESTIVAL OF LEARNING' —"YourR ParT IN THE FABULOUS YEARS AHEAD" EADERSHIP Week will be held June 23-28, 1958, on the Brigham Young University Campus, Provo, Utah. The basic goal of Leadership Week is to provide educational experiences which will help all members of the Church to become better leaders in the home, the community, and the Church. Thoughtful people will ask what goals the United States should strive toward during the coming quarter-century. What kind of world should America be trying to bring about by 1980? What problems will be met, and with what posture will they be faced? Leadership Week 1958, "Your Part in the Fabulous Years Ahead," is less concerned with what America will be like in 1980, than with what it should be like. Relief Society members have found the leadership classes of great interest and value and are looking forward to this year's program. 'The General Board wishes to call to the attention of Relief Society members the following classes which, in addition to many others (more than 500 classes), may be of special interest to Relief Society women: The Doctrine and Covenants American Literature Latter-day Saint Family Life Food in Our Changing World Home Laundry Home Nursing Arts and Crafts for Adults The Book of Mormon as Literature Improvement of Teaching for Teachers of Adults Making Your Own Audio-Visual Materials Materials and Methods for Church Choirs The Art of Parenthood Looking Forward to the Golden Years Aging in the Modern World Wuting for Church Publications The Church Organist Public Speaking in the Church Family Recreation A detailed program may be obtained by writing to Brigham Young University, Adult Education and Extension Services, Provo, Utah. While the instructions and teachings received at Leadership Week are not the official instructions representing Relief Society, yet the material is beneficial because it will supplement and enhance understanding. Page 308 NOTES TO THE FIELD 309 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LEADERSHIP WEEK Brigham Young University is also planning to hold a Leadership Week in Los Angeles, California, in August 1958. 'This will be of special interest to Relief Society members in Southern California. —— All Outr—All Ages—Polio Vaccination Roundup Virginia L. Blood Consultant, Women's Activities National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Can Adults Get Polio? Yes, they can and they do. Polio hits men and women, usually striking them harder than it strikes children. While polio incidence in persons over forty is relatively low, the degree of adult involvement is definitely high. Three out of four respiratory patients today are twenty years or older. Don't take a chance. 'Take Salk shots, whatever your age. 'There is plenty of vaccine available today. Ask your doctor for Salk shots for your entire family. Are Parents Safe From Polio If Their Children Have Been Vaccinated? No. You must be vaccinated yourself to be protected. A vaccinated child, or adult, still can carry the polio virus without harm to himself. But he may pass it along to others still unvaccinated and therefore still susceptible. Are You Safe If Your Neighbors Have Been Vaccinated? No, and for the same reason as above. If there is no polio virus in your community, you may well be safe, and think you are immune. But you cannot be sure. Your neighbor's vaccination, like your child's, cannot give you immunity. Your own personal vaccination can do that. How Can Three Minutes Spare a Lifetime of Suffering? It takes only one minute to get one Salk shot today. It takes another MINUTE to get a second shot from two to six weeks later. And only ONE MINUTE more for a third shot seven months after that. Three minutes taken NOW can prevent a lifetime of needless crippling. Make arrangements to start SALK shots NOW for your entire family. Young Men Shall See Ustons P OUNG men, young women — you are living in a wonderful day. No generation since the dawn of time has seen so much progress. None has faced such a future. Electricity, the steam engine, the telephone, the telegraph, the automobile, the airplane, the radio, the television, nuclear power... They're all products of your generation. So, in a degree never before known to man, are hidden treasures of truth now being revealed. The prophets foresaw and foretold these days in the beautiful language of poetry and prophecy: "... Your old men shall dream dreams, your Page 310 young men shall sce visions... And I will shew wonders in the heaven above, and signs in the earth...." In fulfillment, a Boy Scout prepares for a merit badge test and tunes his short-wave radio to a new world of astral signals and sounds — and goes on to become a physical scientist or a designer of airplanes. He sets his sight on the stars and a globe-circling satellite is born. An inspired teacher opens the intellect and stirs the soul of a gifted pupil — and a surge of hidden forces comes alive. What visions! What dreams! What wonders! And for you, young men and young women of the Church, what glorious opportunities, what awesome responsibilities. What can you do? If vou would "find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures," seek learning — by study and by faith. Keep the commandments. And with it all— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF > My Mother s Trust Hannah C. Ashby My mother's trust was like a star, To guide my path that led afar. She had such confidence in me, I always felt that I was free To make a choice without a bar. And yet for worlds, I would not mar That sacred tie, or leave a scar To blemish in a slight degree My mother's trust. How helpful loving mothers are, They gently leave the door ajar. The teachings at my mother's knee Have shaped my earthly destiny. The greatest debt I know, is for My mother's trust. > Recompe nse Hazel M. Thomson I carefully plucked out each gray hair, But they returned at stepped-up pace; Today I looked into the mirror, And saw my mother's face. YOUNG MEN SHALL SEE VISIONS 311 Recipes From the Uruguayan Mlission Submitted by Louise B. Parry TOMATO SURPRISE—IOMATES SORPRESA (Salad) Skin and cut the tomatoes in halves, remove seeds and pulp. Inside of each one of them, put a raw egg, taking care not to break. Add seasoning (salt and pepper). Cover with white sauce and grated cheese. Put in the oven for five minutes or until the egg is cooked. PARADISE Soup—Sopa Paratso 38s dg R 4 tbsp. Parmesan cheese 4 tbsp. Bread crumbs Beat thoroughly egg whites and then add to beaten yolks. Add the bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese. Mix well and drop by spoonfuls in the bouillon, and boil for six to eight minutes. ComBINED Soup—Sopa LicapAa 12 c. Bouillon 6 tbsp. Cheese 1% tbsp. Flour 6 egg yolks Pour into a pan the bouillon and add the flour and grated cheese. Cook well and stir constantly. In the soup bowl, beat thoroughly egg yolks and pour the bouillon over them, stirring well. SMALL Meat Piss—EMPANADAS CRIOLLAS (Main Dish) Dough: 3 ¢. Flour 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs % c, water 1 tbsp. Shortening Combine the flour, eggs, shortening, salt, and water. Form the dough and roll it until one-fourth inch thick. Cut in rather small squares and put one-half tablespoon of the filling in the center of each piece and fold them in half to form triangles. Build up fluted edges on each one of fhem. Filling: large onions 2 hard bole cee 1 Ib. Ground beef Taisins as desire pepper and salt to taste green olives as desired Brown in oil or margarine the onions, finely chopped, and the ground beef. Add raisins, and green olives as desired. Criotto Cooxres—Masiras CrioLLas (Dessert ) 2 eggs 2 c. Flour % c. Sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder Y% c. Butter Mix together the eggs, sugar, butter, flour, and baking powder and beat thoroughly. Page 312 pepper and salt to taste. When nicely browned, add the hard boiled eggs finely chopped, Shape into small cookies and put on greased baking sheet. Sprinkle with chopped almonds and confectioner's sugar. Bake in moderate oven until nicely browned. Tortas Fritas (Dessert ) 2 c. Flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Baking powder ¥% c. Cold water 1 tsp. Salt fat for deep frying 2% tbsp. Butter Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Cut in the butter and add the egg and water. Press dough into ball and knead until soft. Roll out on floured board to one-fourth inch thick. Cut with round cutter or a floured glass. Fry on both sides until golden brown; remove and drain on paper toweling. If desired, while still warm sprinkle with confectioner's or granulated sugar before serving. Best served while hot. These tortas are something like pancakes, but are for dessert. Precious &p isode Dora Toone Brough I held a small, soft hand in mine today— A three-year-old. With anxious feet we went Exploring—saw the kittens in the hay— The cow and calf in pasture quite content. The air was full of happy springtime signs. We listened to the robin's chirping call— Heard meadowlarks and picked fresh dandelions, And climbed the fence down by the waterfall. We counted tulips near the flagstone walk— Saw orchards full of apple blossom smell, And scores of questions answered in our talk Of what, and how—so many things to tell. A box of sand came next. We settled down To build a castle, on a hill, as high As grandpa's barn. We fashioned dogs, a clown, Some pies and cakes. We caught a butterfly. This day is precious—as when I held his hand, Your Daddy's, and built castles in the sand. RECIPES FROM THE URUGUAYAN MISSION 313 The Finish Frances C. Yost OM sat down at the breakfast table. He noticed the crisp white tablecloth, the neatly folded napkins, the pretty dishes Sally had used. Then he looked at the breakfast fare and a frown gathered on his face. "What, cracked wheat cereal and powdered milk again... Oh, no!" 'Tom shuddered, looked at Sally, and shook his head. "Tm sorry, Tom, honest I am,' Sally looked a little hurt. "I'm not blaming you, Sally. I know you're a super cook, and if I brought home the bacon and ham and sausage and eggs and things, you'd cook them. I'm fed up on this working my way through college, and living like... Like this, and I'm quitting and getting a job!" "Tom, you can't quit now. Why it's already March, and you only have until June. We can stick it out, honest we can!" Sally said encouragingly. "What's a degree in pharmacy if it means you and Donny and Sally Lynn have to suffer?" '"Nobody's suffered, Tom. Why I took Sally Lynn and Donny to the well-child clinic yesterday, and they're gaining steadily. I guess I've skimped on your food, rather than theirs," Sally spoke apologetically. "I've weighed the problem, and I'm quitting," Tom said as he sugared his cereal and poured the powdered milk over it and started to chew and swallow his food with no outward sign of enjoyment. Sally didn't feel like eating now. She just «at at fhe stable and Page 314 watched Tom. She had been pretty proud of the way she had managed, and Tom hadn't had one of these outbursts for a long time. She felt the tears gathering. She hoped she could hold off her cry until he left their little campus apartment. But 'Tom had seen her. "Don't take it so personal, Sally. A fellow's got to pop off someplace. I guess home isn't the proper place to do it, though, and, especially, when a pretty wife has set a pretty breakfast table. But, Sally, let's face it, you've been managing on practically nothing too long. I'm going to give up and get a job and support my family decently. Monday morning I'm handing in my papers and quitting school!" "But, Tom, we can manage on your... Your job," Sally implored. "Say it, Sally, on my garbage collecting job. I'm not only tired of seeing you skimp, I'm tired of getting up at 4:30 every morning and collecting garbage, and eating powdered milk. A degree isn't worth it. This is the finish!" Sally Lynn, sleeping close by in the crib, started to cry. Sally picked her up, put her over her shoulder, and patted her little back comfortingly. She had to comfort Tom, too. Somehow she had to keep him going... Put him through. "Let's go see your grandmother today, Tom. It's Saturday and you need a change." "Sally, must I point out to you, the car doesn't run without gas?" Tom ejaculated. "I have five dollars saved for THE FINISH an emergency, and I think this is it," Sally said cheerfully. "Granny's getting old, Tom. She won't be here too long." Under her breath she said, "If anyone can cheer 'Tom up, Granny Crocket can." KK OK eK ELL, bless my soul!" Granny Crockett said, as she held the door open and welcomed 'Tom and Sally. "My, I'm glad you brought the kiddies!" "We take them most places, Granny. It saves sitter money!" Sally smiled, as she took off the children's wraps and dropped into the comfortable rocking chair Granny Crocket offered. "T never could figure why they started calling people who tend children 'sitters.' I've been tending children for more than sixty years, off and on, and I've never been able to sit long." Granny chuckled. "You should bring little Donny and Sally Lynn here to me, and let me tend them while you two go on a little vacation after you get your degree, 'Tom." "I'm not going to get the degree, Granny," Tom said determinedly. "Monday morning ['m turning in my books and finding a _ job and...." "Not finish, oh, no, Tom! You'll regret it as long as you live. Just as I have." Granny Crocket shook her head. "T didn't know you went to college, Granny," Tom said, interested. "Tell us about it." "Well, it wasn't called college. It had been a fort, and was later converted into a place of learning just east of Beaver City. It was called the Murdock Academy. We 315 had excellent teachers, Brother Maeser taught there, and dear old Alfred Durham was the music teacher. My older brother Wilford and I traveled from Fillmore and had a couple of rooms in one of those lovely old brick houses. Our apartment was rather plain compared to modern living, but we managed, and we had fun and did a lot of good, down-to-earth learning." "That's where you met Grandpa Lee, wasn't it?" Tom asked. He liked to get Granny talking about the good old days. Her eyes lighted up with happy memories. The years seemed to slip from her shoulders and she was youthful again. "Yes, Grandpa Lee often said that the day I walked into the classroom he looked up and saw me, and turned to his friend at his side and said, "That's my girl!' 'What's her name?' the student asked him. 'I don't know,' Grandpa Lee replied, 'T haven't met her yet.' " "Nlust have been love at first sight," 'Tom chuckled. "Well, Grandpa Lee always figured it was more than that. He said it was just as if he had known me in the spirit world." Granny Crockett's voice had a sacred tone. "Tell us about your college days, Granny." 'Tom coaxed. "I told you brother Wilford and I lived together and kept house. People lived in families more then. Nowadays girls and boys live in separate dormitories and have their food all prepared for them. Well, Wilford and I did our own cooking. We brought lots of good food from our home in Fillmore, and we man- 316 aged quite well. But when winter set in, the roads were bad and Pa couldn't get down and bring us more flour and cereal and canned fruits and vegetables and things. And our money was gone and...." Granny took a hanky from her - pocket, and wiped her eyes and apologized. "I haven't related this often, and never without a tear or two," but she continued bravely. €4YAJ7HEN we saw the food getting low, we did ration, we cut out one meal a day completely, and we skimped and tried to manage, but try as we would, the food tan out except for potatoes." Granny paused. "Well, you can do a lot with potatoes."" Sally smiled. "Yes, if you have something to go with them. But toward the last we had no lard to fry them, no butter to put on them, no milk or meat to make gravy, just plain boiled potatoes... For days just boiled potatoes. It looked like the finish." "Why didn't you ask for help? Why didn't you go to the store and get credit?" Tom asked. "Wilford did humble himself and go to the store and ask for credit, but in those days things were strictly cash, more than now." "Why didn't you tell Grandpa Lee your troubles?" Tom asked. "Grandpa Lee has often asked me that same question." Granny Crocket smiled. "But I guess it was pride that kept us silent. My brother 'Wilford was his best chum, too, but neither of us breathed a word, not to one single soul. "Then the week end came, and Grandpa Lee invited Wilford to go home with him. Grandpa Lee RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 lived on a lovely beef ranch just a short way from the college. I begged and begged Wilford to accept the invitation and go. He was a big fellow with a growing-boy appetite. It was harder for him than for me to... To go without." Tom and Sally found they, too, had pulled out their handkerchiefs and were wiping their eyes. Then Granny Crocket continued: "That was such a good chance for Wilford. It meant a whole weekend of good eating. It meant roasts and gravy, vegetables and fruit, cool milk and rich cream on the cereal for breakfast, and good desserts like carrot pudding and vinegar pie. But dear old Wilford was too... Too loyal to go and leave me. He turned that wonderful invitation down. He said he had to cram for tests." "What did you do? Did the supplies get through from your own folks?" Tom asked. "No, the supplies didn't come, and the mail didn't get through, either. We had hoped every day for something from Pa or Ma, but nothing came. We just went on eating boiled potatoes. Finally, I couldn't look a potato in the face. That's the honest truth. I sort of started just living on water. 'sTT was the next week end that Grandpa Lee asked me to go home with him. It was a big temptation. I would have said 'yes' too quickly to be polite, but then I remembered Wilford who had sacrificed the same chance for me only a week before. I started to say, I had to study, but Wilford came along and said, 'Of course she'll go with you, Lee.' "Somehow I just had to be loyal THE FINISH as my brother, even if I died, so I said, 'But I have to cook for Wilford!' "Cook for me, that's a laugh!' Wilford said. 'She'll have her clothes packed the minute school's out!' "It was a wonderful trip in the old whitetop buggy. If I hadn't been so hungry, it might have been romantic. I wasn't thinking so much about being with my best boy friend and meeting his folks as [| was thinking about what his mother might cook. "Grandpa Lee was the youngest of ten children, and his mother always cooked things special for him when he came home Friday nights. As we jogged along he wondered what his mother would have cooked up. And my mouth watered just listening to him. I remember so well how we drove into the lane and his folks came out to meet us. Soon as we were in the house and had our wraps off, Lee's father said: 'Now Ma's fixing an early supper but, while we're waiting, have a glass of Ma's grapejuice.' "IT was glad for anything offered me. But I had no more finished the grapejuice than the stairway at one end of the big living room started going around, and then I fainted completely away. "It didn't take your Grandpa Lee's mother long to find out what was ailing me. She was of pioneer stock and had been through life's mill herself. She fed me well and loaded the buggy with all kinds of supplies for Wilford and me to start housekeeping properly again." "How long did you go to school at the Academy?" Tom asked. 317 "That's what I started out to tell you. I didn't finish. I married Grandpa Lee. We stayed on at the Academy, however. Grandpa Lee was taken on as the shop instructor, teaching woodwork. So, instead of being a student, I became one of the faculty member's wives. "Now, Tom, I want you to go on and finish, as I didn't. I want you to take this dab of money as a gift from me. You know, Tom, I'd like to be a little part of the finish with you." Granny Crocket winked. Tom looked at the crisp ten-dollar bill Granny Crockett had extended to him. An hour ago he wouldn't have been too proud to take a ten-dollar bill from anyone. But now he looked into her sparkling blue eyes and said, "Granny, I appreciate your thinking of me, but honest fact, we're getting along just fine. Why you should see what a pretty table Sally manages to set. We have cereal and milk, and most everything we need. And look at Sally Lynn and Donny. Why, only yesterday, Sally took them to the well-child clinic and they're gaining right along." But Tom's speech hadn't fooled old Granny Crocket. "Tom, when a smart fellow like you talks about not finishing college, it's the lack of money that's behind the talk. Take it!" "Granny Crocket, just talking to you has made me change my mind about quitting school. So you buy yourself a new bonnet with this money and be to the graduation exercises in June. When they hand me my degree, I want you there to be part of the finish!" You Can Sew—Ill. Sitting Jean Ridges Jennings CLOTHES may or may not make the woman, but the woman who makes her own clothes will feel considerably better about doing it, if she knows how properly to fit them. Regardless of how well the actual stitching is done, a dress will not look well nor feel comfortable unless it fits the person who wears it. More and more women and girls are learning to fit dresses to themselves. With patience and knowledge of a few details, it can be done quite easily. It is a real convenience and time-saver, if one doesn't need to wait for help in making clothes. Care in fitting is richly rewarded. The well-fitted dress looks well. It feels easy and comfortable, yet is snug enough to have the look of belonging to its wearer. It does not have to endure unnecessary pulls and strains. A dress that fits well brings out the good points of the wearer and hides the poor ones. Following are some points to watch in fitting clothes: 1. Always fit clothes right side out for accuracy and proper symmetry. 2. Be sure to retain the direction of the grain of the material that was obtained by careful cutting. Crosswise threads are parallel to the floor at center front and back bust line and hip line. Lengthwise threads on the sleeve cap lie in the direction of the arm when it hangs straight. Center front and center back lines should be perfectly straight and perpendicular to the floor (Figure 1). 3. Underarm waist seams and skirt seams should hang straight down — not swinging to the back or front (Figure 2). The waistline seam should appear straight around the figure. 4. Fitting should always be done over Page 318 the same clothes that will be worn with the dress. 5. Do not fit too snugly. Allow room for walking, sitting, and moving the arms. Figure faults are more noticeable when clothes are too tight. 6. Do not trim the neckline or armhole without first marking a line and being sure it is right. If they seem snug, it is often because of the seam allowance, which will be taken up in the seam. 7. Keep the dress on a hanger when you are not working on it. This prevents many wrinkles and saves unnecessary pressing. It also gives bias sections a chance to sag into their natural shapes. One of the commonest mistakes made by beginning sewers is that of sewing in the darts before fitting. This is entirely wrong. 'The darts are used to take up fullness and to shape sections to the individual figure. 'Thus they are one of the important fitting points on a dress and must be adjusted to personal needs. When you use darts, try different places until you get a smooth, becoming line. Front shoulder darts remove wrinkles from the shoulder down to the bust and should be directed toward the full part of the bust. Back shoulder darts from the shoulder seams give ease across the back. They improve the fit on a roundshouldered person. Underarm and waistline darts in the blouse give needed ease and fullness and should always point to the full part of the bust. 'They may be shortened or lengthened to fit the individual and should end where bust fullness starts. Skirt darts from the waistline in the skirt back or front make for smoothness between the hip and a YOU CAN SEW—III. FITTING snug waistline. Do not space back skirt darts too far apart on a large figure. Elbow darts properly located give elbow room and hold fullness in the right place. Bend the elbow and place darts at elbow point. Every woman soon learns the easiest plan for her to follow in fitting a dress, but a few suggestions may help. Pin and baste as much as is necessary before the first fitting. Fit blouse and skirt at the same time to get a proper idea of how they will hang. When fitting a skirt, fit it to the band, pinned around the waist. Before doing any actual fitting, study the general effect of all sides of the dress in a full-length mirror. Decide what is good and what needs changing. In mak- — wen Figure 1 319 ing needed changes be sure to keep grain lines straight throughout the entire fitting. Space does not permit a detailed discussion of all fitting problems. Special help is always available in excellent sewing manuals found in pattern departments and book stores. When you work alone, it may help to compare measurements with those of a dress that fits well. Take note of any fitting problems you have, and anticipate them when cutting out your next dress. Remember that the properly fitted dress is comfortable when the wearer stands, sits, or moves around. It is snug where fashion demands, but never feels tight or strained. \ /I Figure 2 Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 5 Synopsis: Carol Wilson, an artist on the staff of a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, went to a ranch in Wyoming to attend the funeral of her sister Elizabeth. She felt a deep sympathy for the motherless children, and later, after her return to her work, she decided to go back to the children. However. She found them well cared for by their grandmother and an efficient housekeeper. Fred, Carol's brother-in-law, had become interested in a kindly neighbor, Dolly Graham, and Dolly's brother Tony believed himself to be in love with Carol. RENT Gibson bent a carefullv scrutinizing look upon Carol as he greeted her after her two weeks' rest in Wyoming. "You still look well!" he declared. "Real well. You know, I've been rather worried. No letters, no phone calls, nothing! I thought maybe youd found some handsome young Wyoming rancher and had forgotten al] about Your Home Magazine." Carol, feeling lighthearted now that she was back in the city, ready to go to work again, laughed. The rest must have done her good, for she felt like teasing this matter-offact boss of hers. "I did!" she said, her eyes twinkling. "I did find a handsome young rancher, Tony Muir, just back from a mission to England and...." "Looking for a wife!' Brent said crossly. "They all do." The bantering tone left Carol's voice. She asked soberly, "Did you, Brent, when you returned from South America?" Pesce 229 -se ~—< He hesitated a moment and then said, "Yes." Surprised a little at the short answer, Carol looked more closely at her companion. His face betrayed nothing. She couldn't help asking, "What happened?" He shrugged. "She married someone else. That's all." Instant sympathy softened Carol's voice. "I'm sorry, Brent." "Tm not," he said firmly. "I'm not, Caro]. I've learned a lot since that bygone day. I've learned that, while a man's first young love is very sweet and compelling, it is as nothing compared to the overwhelming tenderness that comes later. Though he may never gain his heart's desire, that later love is so enriching, so rewarding, in itself, that it is an experience not to be missed." He stopped abruptly, then went on in a businesslike tone. "The car's over here, Carol. And as we drive to the office, I want to fill you in on this Maybelle Ray deal. As I told you on the phone, it's a bright red feather in our cap to get a story from her. I had to pay plenty, but it's a gorgeous story. And you can do the crowing, for she sent her story to me because she wanted you to illustrate it. That was her one condition." Caro] listened, but not with her heart. Her heart was busy with the hidden chapter in Brent's life that this short lecture had disclosed. That later love he spoke about—it ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN must be for the same person as his first young passion. She had never heard, in her years of working with him, of any serious affair—of anyone who might have stirred him deeply. And he had said, "Though he never gain his heart's desire." She stole a sidewise glance at her companion, and felt a wave of tenderness for him. He was not what most people would call handsome, but he had firm, regular features and the kindest eves and mouth she had ever seen. The girl must have been blind not to see his worth. How many men would cherish a lost love—nurse it into a rewarding and enriching factor in their lives? "You're not hearing a thing I say!" Brent complained, grinning ruefully. "Mooning over that handsome returned missionary, I bet." Carol smiled. "If you only kag knew! HE new serial was, as Brent had said, a gorgeous story. It had everything that would lend itself to the type of painting Carol excelled in. As she read the manuscript, her imagination caught at scene after scene that would make vivid, compelling pictures, and her fingers curled, almost feeling the brush between them. She could scarcely wait to get started. But it was to prove less exciting and easy than she had anticipated. The author, Maybelle Ray, nationally famous and thoroughly convinced of her tremendous importance, came to the city to oversee the job of illustrating. She had her own ideas of what the illustrations should be, and she did not hesitate to make them known. Day after day she came to Carol's studio, 321 watched for awhile, and then began to find fault with Carol's interpretation of action and character and even of background. Carol's nerves began to suffer. Once, losing patience, Carol asked sharply, "I thought you wanted me to do these pictures?" "T do, darling!" Maybelle replied sweetly, "but only because I feel sure that you can do them the way I want them done!" Taken aback, Carol felt like resigning from the job. It wasn't her creative ability the author wanted; she just wanted a brush she could control — an educated brush, but a submissive one! Carol gritted her teeth and went on, doggedly. And then, suddenly, she came to the end of her patience. She stormed into Brent's office one afternoon after a long morning with the irritating author. "T'm giving up!" she cried, almost in tears. "I don't want the assignment. I can't take it any more, Brent! I simply cannot take it any longer!" "Steady, Carol!' he said gently. "And don't cry, please! Nothing about your job is worth one little tear." He had got up and come around the desk, taking her shoulders in his strong hands. His voice, his hands, calmed her. She smiled wryly, moved away, and sat down. "T guess I sounded like a hysterical child," she admitted. "But I've had a hornble morning." Then she went on quietly to describe Maybelle's interference with her work. "It's an unpleasant situation," he admitted, "but a bit ticklish, too. That story, Carol] — I want to publish it. It's the best thing that has 322 ever come across my desk. And with your illustrations, honey, we'll put the magazine right out in front of the world." "But you'll never have my illustrations if she keeps on heckling me!" "You told me you'd already finisheda couple...." "T had, trying to suit Maybelle. But then, after awhile when I looked at them they were so terrible — they just made me sick — so I scrapped them." She flung out her hands, palms up, in a helpless gesture. "I haven't a thing done, really." Brent, back in his chair behind his desk, tapped a pencil against his teeth, considering. 'Then he put the pencil down with one decisive movement and said, "All right, Carol. I'll put a stop to this. Tonight we'll move you, bag and baggage, into that little empty room upstairs here. And you'll do those illustrations, without let or hindrance — and just the way you want to do them. And when our dear Maybelle comes howling at my door to find out where you are, I'll simply tell her there were too many distractions in your studio, and you've-had to get away by yourself to get the job done. And I won't tell her where you are. Okay?" Carol nodded. "I guess that's the only solution, Brent. But what if she's dissatisfied when they are all done?" "She's not going to see them until they appear in their proper places— in the pages of Your Home Magazine. And that is very definitely that! Now, you go back home and rest this afternoon, and I'll be around about eight to take you to dinner. After dinner, we'll move RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 you upstairs. Ill have the custodian get the room ready by then." DUE to the delay caused by Maybelle Ray's interference, Carol had to work extra hard and for long hours in order to get the work done by the deadline Brent had set. And the cramped, hot little room was an unpleasant change from her own light and airy studio. But Carol was an artist who took almost as much pride in meeting a deadline as she did in the excellence of her work. So, though she felt utterly exhausted at each day's end, she didn't complain to Brent. She just kept doggedly on, often even forgetting her discomfort in the joy of creating. For the story was a satisfying one, and the work of putting it into figures, instead of words, challenged every ounce of her creative ability. When she laid the last of the illustrations on Brent's desk, she rubbed her hand tiredly across her forehead, and noticed that it was midsummer and dreadfully hot. She had a sudden, clear vision of the cool blue of the Tetons, frosted with snow. She had not forgotten Tony's urgent invitation, though, isolated in her new little office, she had not received any calls from him. She had picked up her mail at her apartment, letters from the children and from Tony. And she had telephoned to the youngsters from time to time. But now she wanted to keep that promise of sorts. She wanted to get away to the serenity and peace of the mountains. "T know I had two weeks early this spring," she said to Brent, "but I'm awfully tired, Brent. If there's (Continued on page 340) Mollie McClain Boel Enjoys Lifelong Hobbies OLLIE McClain Boel, Provo, Utah, began piecing quilts when she was eight years old. In 1933 one of her quilts was displayed in a store window in Provo as the grand prize winner in The Provo Herald's Noah's Ark Quilting Contest. Now, at the age of cightv, Mrs. Boei still enjoys her quiltmaking hobby as much as her evesight will permit. She has added many more handwork hobbies to her long list of accomplishments. She has crocheted hundreds of useful and beautiful articles; she is skilled in embroidery work; her braided rugs have won much praise for their excellent design and workmanship. As a convert to the Church, Mollie McClain came to Utah from Georgia in 1905. She married Pierre Christian Boel, who died in 1918, leaving Mrs. Boel with three young sons to rear, the eldest only seven years of age. 'Iwo of these sons are now ward bishops. Mrs. Boel has thirteen grandchildren who love to visit in her home. She lives alone and does all her own housework. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for thirty years. Sorsythia Grace Ingles Frost Forsythia with golden bells Forsythia is the first bloom, Is ringing in the spring, Its loveliness to fling To help green thumbs of nature Through springtime's filmy gossamer, To transform everything. And bells of beauty ring. Page 323 Magazine Honor Roll For 1957 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp THE General Board congratulates all those responsible for the record of Magazine subscriptions made during 1957. In spite of the necessity of raising the price to $2, as of August 1957, still the number of subscriptions reached an all-time high of 150,988 — with an increase of 2,426 number of subscriptions over 1956. The substantial increase attests the devotion of Magazine representatives — representatives who walked through storms to obtain renewals so that no issue would be lost by subscribers; representatives who called on newcomers and who in addition to selling them a subscription, let them know that Relief Society was vitally interested in their welfare; sisters who, although homebound, made telephone contacts for Magazine representatives; representatives who used their own cars to reach the sisters living far away; representatives who returned two and three times to a home to obtain a subscription. These and other services were performed by ward and branch Magazine _ representatives who honored and magnified their callings. Stake and mission Magazine representatives spent many hours in giving vital suggestions at union meetings, giving training in salesmanship, keeping Magazine records for the stake or mission, and enthusing and encouraging ward and branch representatives. The General Board attaches great significance to the calling of a Magazine representative. It is an unselfish service of great benefit to Relief Page 324 Society throughout the world. Presidencies who support their Magazine representatives also contribute to the well-being of Relief Society through having their sisters subscribe to the Magazine. Why is the Magazine vital to the work of Relief Society? It is a messenger which carries the spirit of Relief Society into every home it enters. It instructs on new policies and rules and sets forth in both print and pictures the activities and programs of this world-wide sisterhood. It records the history of Relief Society. It teaches approved, outlined courses of study to bring mental and spiritual development and progression. The Relief Society Magazine brings joy to readers through creative writings of poetry and prose by Latter-day Saint women. It suggests ways of improving homemaking and ties together the sisterhood of the Church. It indeed seems an essential part of Relief Society and the work of the sisters of the Church. For the eleventh consecutive year, South Los Angeles leads the stakes of the Church with a percentage of 251%. South Gate Ward of South Los Angeles Stake again leads the wards with 520%. The Central States Mission leads the missions with 113%, with Northern California just 1% less. The Central States Mission also has the highest district—West Kansas District with 163%, and the highest mission branch, Oklahoma City Branch with 3507. There are eighty-eight stakes MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 whose percentage is 100% or over; there are 220 stakes on the honor roll; and twenty stakes in which all the wards achieved 100% or over. There are 1,854 wards on the honor roll. 'There are sixteen missions on the honor roll in 1957 and 559 branches. Ever since 1872 the women of the Church have had their own publication, and over the years the work of placing the publication in the homes of Latter-day Saint women has been entrusted to faithful sisters 325 who have willingly accepted this strenuous and exacting but satisfying call. Today The Relief Society Magazine representatives give unselfishly of their time, of their talents, and of themselves to further their important work for Relief Society. 'The General Board extends its heartfelt thanks to them, the presidencies, and to the subscribers who help make a publication for women a continued reality in the Church. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 251% Magazine Representative—Edna C. Stoutsenberger Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 520% Magazine Representative—Eva Guynn Mission Central States Mission—113% Mission Relief Society President—May E. J. Dyer Mission District West Kansas District, Central States Mission—163% Magazine Representative—Helen J. Ryan Mission Branch Oklahoma City Branch—350% West Oklahoma District, Central States Mission Magazine Representative—Gertrude Russell Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles.........-2-20-2..0..222sscseeeeee OS | TDD re..--.--n. Necne-nenceccereneeeseverseeeestitecsssecerssecenanl »---1 40... Oquitrh Inglewood 20.2... Eee ence ce eee ce eeeeeeeee tee eeeeeseeeees Santa Monica..........2..-20:-:: c: scscceceeeceeeeeceeceecneoees PCM UTD o2ioss..... Nsecsnscsstbeenececsessececcensecssceeccneeses MMM acacia nec ct cect nen nen caeeeneneceeccttee sue ToongeBGaeh: ccs... Nsa---------eeeecnesennseceeesscess Burbank 0000... Eee eeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeceeeeescoteceesenes...251.... Edna C. Stoutsenberger...182.... Elsie Weber 140.... Flora Buggert -Helen D. Jensen 136.... Janet C. Medina 134.... Kathleen Savage 128.... Beth Moore...128.... Lone Church...124.... Silva Mahnken...122.... Edith L. McKenny 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Central States -..........0...2: sssscsccesssrnenenenecceneeeseos 113.... May E. J. Dyer Northern California.........2....2.22..22--2---2-1---0e-----112.... Hazel S. Love Western States...........-....2scecseceeesececeeeeeeeeeeeneeee107.... Grace R. Gardner Ch cc e 1 Fa anne ESS nan Sao gg..--Alta H. Taylor Plaster Staites ott... Eae snee nen cecenteeenencencne eens 7...-Florence S. Jacobsen West Central States............0.2222. Ete eee eee 96.... Anna C. Merrill Ganado go.... Leah H. Lewis Gulf States 00........ Ssenssceesececnceeeencnsrennemeoneeeen 85...-Emma A. Hanks North Central States -222.222220.2202222221-21eeeeeeeeeee 84.... Diana F. Child Western Canadian................ Sssssessesseeeeeeeeneees 84.... Annie Ruth Larson Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2881 Bountiful 923 Glendale 1195 North Idaho Falls gli San Diego 1084 % Wells gil Ensign 965 North Davis 910% South Salt Lake 929 Highland 889 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Central States 1223 Western States 898 Southern States 1067 West Central States 835 Eastern States 1065 Northwestern States 768 Great Lakes 1018 California 708 Central Atlantic States 970 British 628 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Burbank..............--Edith L. McKenny Oquirth -...........--..--Helen D. Jensen Burley -.............------Ione Church Orange County...... Mabel M. Martin East Long Beach.... Margaret Bryan Pasadena.............---Vera Jean N. Jones East Sharon............ Edna M. Hansen Pocatello...............-Esther H. Hanks Glendale................ Elsie Weber St. Joseph...........-.. Nira P. Lee Inglewood.............-Janet C. Medina Shelley -............-.-----Merle Young Las Vegas...........--Lila H. Leavitt South Box Elder.... Naomi P. Larkin Liberty.................-Katherine H. McOmie South Los Angeles.. Edna C. StoutsenLong Beach.......... Silva Mahnken berger Monument Park West Boise -..........-Myrtle B. Oborn WESt oe eeeeeeeeeeHazel S. Robison West Pocatello...... Ione G. Slayden Mlisston Percentages on Glonor Roll Central States 113 Canadian go South Africa 82 Northern California 112 Gulf States 85 Central Atlantic 82 Western States 107 North Central States 84 Southern States 80 California 99 Western Canadian 84 Great Lakes 79 Eastern States 97 New England 83 Northwestern States 78 West Central 96 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 South Los Angeles Glendale Provo Oquirrh Inglewood Santa Monica Rexburg Burley Long Beach Burbank Las Vegas New York San Joaquin Boise Covina Shelley San Diego Orange County Monument Park Holladay North Pocatello North Idaho Falls Portland Kansas City Nyssa Sacramento Humboldt South Idaho Falls Bountiful Monument Pk. West East Long Beach East Sharon San Bernardino Calgary Minidoka West Boise Bear River Gridley Pocatello Redondo West Pocatello Union West Utah Bakersfield San Francisco South Box Elder Taylorsville Blackfoot St. Joseph Atlanta Sugar House Valley View Taylor Twin Falls 251 182 140 140 136 134 128 128 124 122 119 118 117 116 114 114 114 113 112 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 Liberty Malad Cottonwood South Salt Lake Grand Junction North Davis Bonneville Los Angeles Mt. Rubidoux Granite Reseda Idaho Falls East Mesa Spanish Fork Pasadena Woodruff Sevier East Phoenix Grant Seattle Southern Arizona Mt. Graham Salt Lake 'Tacoma Wells Columbia River North Jordan South Bear River American Falls Highland Rigby Great Falls Lake View Wasatch Yellowstone Mill Creek Park Uintah Nampa Bannock San Mateo Ashley North Tooele Oakland-Berkeley East Mill Creek Zion Park Ensign Cassia F migration Phoenix Palmyra Young Ogden East Rigby Stakes by Percentages 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 North Seattle Big Horn San Jose Reno Rose Park New Orleans San Juan North Rexburg Star Valley Butte Temple View South Ogden Havward North Box Elder Washington East Provo Idaho Cache Portneuf San Fernando Tucson Maricopa Weiser Cedar Franklin East Los Angeles Nebo Flagstaff Chicago Wilford Gooding Murray Uvada South Summit Riverdale Mt. Jordan St. Johns Salmon River Detroit Timpanogos Mesa University Denver Lethbridge Sharon Kolob Millard Kanab St. George Springville Tooele Murray South Benson Deseret 327 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Missoula 86 Ben Lomond 82 Canyon Rim 74 Palo Alto 85 Florida 82 Parowan 74 Teton 85 Mt. Ogden 82 Richland 74 Grantsville 85 Duchesne 82 Hillside 74 Moapa 85 Juab 82 Willamette 74 Mt. Logan 85 Montpelier 82 Honolulu 93 Raft River 85 Weber 81 Panguitch 73 Grand Coulee 85 Walnut Creek 81 Santaquin-Tintic 73 Snowflake 85 North Weber 81 Layton 78 Riverside 85 Santa Rosa 81 Fresno 72 East Cache 85 Logan 80 Klamath 92 North Sevier 84 Midvale 80 Orem 7A Pioneer 84 East Ogden 80 San Luis Obispo 7 Alberta 84 Dallas 79 Santa Barbara 71 East Jordan 84 San Luis 79 Lyman 70 Wayne 84 North Sanpete 79 Gunnison 69 FE] Paso 84 Lost River 78 Houston 69 Oneida 84 South Sevier 78 Cannon 68 Utah 84 Nevada 78 South Carolina 68 South Blackfoot 84 Summit 77 Juarez 68 Alpine 83 Smithfield i] South Sanpete 67 Bear Lake 83 Spokane "uy Lake Mead 66 Carbon 83 Lehi 9 Emery 65 North Carbon 83 Beaver 76 Blaine 64 West Jordan 83 Davis 76 Moroni 58 Roosevelt 83 Hyrum 76 Virginia 58 North Sacramento 83 Lorin Farr 76 Oahu 47 Garfield 83 Morgan 76 Brigham Young South Davis 83 Farr West 75 University (Limited Participation ) MISSIONS ON THE Relief Society Enrolment California 715 Canadian i 620 Central Atlantic States 1189 Central States 1085 Eastern States 1101 Great Lakes 1288 Gulf States 572 New England 665 North Central States 581 Northern California 477 Northwestern States 981 South Africa 228 Southern States 1334 West Central States 873 Western States 840 Western Canadian 667 HONOR ROLL—1957 Subscriptions Magazine No. Pet. Representative 708 99 ©Alta H. Taylor 560 90 = Leah H. Lewis 970 82 Lovell W. Smith 1223 113. May E. Dyer 1065 97 Florence S. Jacobsen 1018 79 Vonda H. Christensen 485 85 Emma A. Hanks 552 83 Alberta S. Baker 490 84 Diana F. Child 536 112 Hazel S. Love 768 78 Effie K. Driggs 188 82 Holly W. Fisher 1067 80 Lucile Bunker 835 g6 Anna C. Merrill 898 107 Grace R. Gardner 559 84 Annie Ruth Larson Relief Society Alberta Alpine American Falls Ashley Atlanta Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Boise Bonneville Bountiful Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary Carbon Cassia Cedar Chicago Columbia River Cottonwood Covina EnrollSubscriptions ment 665 998 336 463 286 526 368 514 496 522 521 591 900 560 436 794 850 572 640 394 588 417 738 316 654 495 633 371 627 No. 561 833 336 451% 298 554 360 429 530 399 429 506 856 587 634% 384 717 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1957 Pet. 84 83 100 98 104 105 98 83 107 76 82 86 95 105 116 103 109 122 128 94 91 107 83 97 91 89 100 104 114 Magazine Representative Lenore S. McNaughton Della M. Spafford Enid W. Thornton Maryetta Wardle Lucille K. Brown Virginia C. Hodson Ida Sorenson Jean P. Budge Lottie R. Potter Beulah Wood Margaret Read R. Faye Peterson Christine Harvey Vera Fullmer Della P. Means Melvira H. Barlow Eunice H. Van Orden Edith L. McKenny Jone Church Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Shirley Rogers Gertrude W. Edwards Claudia Martin Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Viola Hackett Mabel R. Baker Helen G, Baxter Relief Society Dallas Davis Denver Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Provo East Rigby East Sharon El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granite Enrollment 559 870 948 759 369 432 719 450 747 962 707 298 659 593 575 584 381 387 463 992 606 844 468 759 276 657 524 528 403 643 Subscriptions No. Pet. 79 76 87 86 Magazine Representative Opal Burch Sarah B. Strong Bernice H. Brown Alpha Nielson Nora J. Souter Ora Holgate Ines B. Bergeson Vera Cowley Margaret Bryan Florence Vance Elva M. Brown Johann Hollingworth Vivian Cantwell Cora L. Mack Jane S. Watkins Dale Burtenshaw Edna M. Hansen Lola P. Wiley Adeline Jensen Anna W. Fox Lila J. Lutz Barbara Cline Gertie Mae Keller Phyllis W. Kingsford Lula Neilson Elsie Weber Hazel Pratt Amy Kent Zelda D. Broadhead Wilma D. Wetzel MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 329 Relief Society Grant Grantsville Great Falls Gridley Hayward Highland Holladay Humboldt Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Kanab Kansas City Kolob Lake View Las Vegas Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Mesa EnrollSubscriptions ment 795 464 265 520 460 889 703 188 686 394 650 531 507 442 304 490 674 681 631 668 763 540 645 612 584 269 535 681 805 No. 801% 395 264 553 427 889 781% 205 519 361 664 723 415 383 335 425 671 811 484 580 791 432% 803 463 602 210 554% 619 702 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1957 Pet. 101 85 100 106 93 100 111 109 76 92 102 136 82 87 110 87 100 119 77 87 104 80 124 76 103 78 104 mil 87 Magazine Representative Eliza G. King Ruth W. Rydalch Rachel Robison Lila M. Holdaway Agnes M. Nelson Leone Wade Florence G. Blodgett Jeanene Dannen Angeline Smith Jennie S. Gilbert Erma W. Boyce Janet C. Medina Alligee L. Anderson Nellie Heaton Venna T. Witbeck Hilda W. Cherrington Glenda Thompson Lila H. Leavitt Rosa Ashton Thelma E. B. Derochie Katherine H. McOmie Ruby W. Amussen Silva Mahnken Ella N. Christensen Velma Shurley Marie Acor Elizabeth B. Facer Muriel Freeman Lola C. White Relief Society Midvale Mill Creek Millard Minidoka Missoula Moapa Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Nebo Nevada New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento 608 593 602 588 401 282 749 342 558 361 590 798 693 638 640 459 557 721 645 425 288 376 622 457 882 823 845 509 628 623 No. 485) 587 5224 631 343 240 613 382 605 273 593 703 589 524 656 846% 564 589 515 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. 80 92 87 107 86 85 82 112 108 76 101 88 85 82 1038 89 86 98 90 78 94 118 93 83 103 111 100 111 94 83 Magazine Representative Minerva W. Smith E. Orel A. Greenig DeVine McIntosh Shirley R. Eames Sarah Fillmore Era C. Jones Lola McCammon Sara H. Stone Hazel S. Robison Manilla W. Carter Cora B. Merrill Alice E. Johnson Lola H. Gibbons Shirley E. Wade Hilda Peel Mabell A. Smith Elva P, Payne Ida Cafferty Leona S. Crouch Ada M. Shakespear Evelyn G. Tolbert Thyra Stoddard Etha John Annie Parker Thora A. Martin Winona Telford Louisa Bradley Tura Hadley Arvilla Parkinson Laura P. Brew 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Relief Society North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Palmyra Palo Alto Park Pasadena Phoenix Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Redondo Reno Reseda Rexburg Rigby EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 618 487 79 467 447 96 392 331 84 489 477 98 625 506 81 464 508% 110 Ml 603 97 630 607 96 663 555 84 451 629% 140 552 621 1138 616 594 96 242 202 85 768 761 98 705 715 101 e87 808) = 97 585 494 84 481 511 106 622 687 110 469 427 91 480 670% 140 186 158 85 G75 'Ts 106 621 589 95 409 418 102 625 800 128 754 753 100 Magazine Representative Nita S. Cook Chelta D. Brown Rhea Mickelsen Mary M. McKellar Marvel Barrow Vonda Huntington Vera Weindorf Chloe F. Summerill Mada M. Larsen Helen D. Jensen Mabel M. Martin Mabel Banks Agnes K. Schwarz Pearl E. Rohde Vera Jean N. Jones Rose Openshaw Emma O. Frenette Esther H. Hanks LaPreal Johnson Ada L. Parris Flora Buggert Alice O. Neddo Clarice Rentmeister Pearl S. Robison Bernice Hutchinson Beth Moore Ruey A. Ball Relief Society Riverdale Riverside Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan San Luis San Mateo Santa Monica Santa Rosa Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 515 455 88 784 664% 85 539 446 83 587 555% 95 442 484 110 878 760% 87 450 394% 88 566 590% 104 203 178 88 710 738 101 558 602 108 955 1084% 114 526 479 91 441 464 105 548 643 117 527 501 95 508 478 94 494 390 '79 418 409 98 582 779 134 463 373 81 473 476 101 819 826% 101 570 495 87 677 773 114 673 517% 77 Magazine Representative Edith Stacy Isabelle Sugden Katie Duncan Marjorie J. Peek Magdalene Richardson Agnes S. Pickett Glenda Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Anna Young Frances L. Kooyman Valeer M. Jolly Ruth M. Nelson Cleo Hupp Gertrude P. Terry Leah K. Jacobs Lena Millett Vivian W. Redd Opal McDaniel Harriet S. Zeitschel Kathleen Savage Edna Viola Harris Leona D. Torney Florence U. Ogden Norma Dee Jameson Merle Young Vera R. Cantwell MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1957 331 Relief Society Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos EnrollSubscriptions ment 648 581 590 630 TG 728 1147 713 899 501 440 303 583 649 506 716 847 356 596 657 746 768 502 678 No. 550 582 493% 663 641% 794 2881 665 929 390% 389 305 594 499 437% 671% 881% 275 599 682 785 719 428}: 592 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1957 Pet. 85 100 84 105 83 109 251 93 103 78 88 101 102 | 86 94 104 ia 101 104 105 94 85 87 Magazine Representative Adele H. Ballard Dorothy B. Kerr Gladys H. Harman Naomi P. Larkin Elsie Logsdon Wynnette K. Card Edna C. Stoutsenberger Virgia P. Jensen Hannah Dietrich Margaret Bown Susie D. Andrus Maud Poot Lois Dedrickson Lola M. May Donetta H. Anthon Vera H. Roberts Nellie J. Ehlers Thelma P. Brown Nettie M. Blake Nellie T. Ririe Afton L. Smith Mabel E. Snow Ruby F. Christiansen Ethel Fenton Relief Society Tooele Tucson Twin Falls Uintah Union University Utah Uvada Valley View Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Weiser Wells West Boise West Jordan West Pocatello West Utah Wilford Woodruff Yellowstone Young Zion Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 445 443 801 446 483 604 540 320 440 A472 717 599 324 766 A497 907 502 994 838 619 535 525 788 493 377 No. 382 403 831 438 510 526 452 284 458 383 714 554 272 622 451 911 537 827 886 653 478 532 782 475 367 Pet. 86 91 104 98 106 87 84 89 104 81 100 $2 84 81 SL 100 107 83 106 105 89 101 99 96 97 Magazine Representative Jewel Halgren Belva Jones Hazel W. Stevens Stella Sadlier Mar Jean Westerfield Olive Coombs Bertha Memmott Vera Rowley Dorie N. Walton Barbara B. Green Leda M. Titus Mary E. Stimpson LaVird W. Balle Florenee Wright Irene H. Winegar Edith H. Koelliker Myrtle B. Oborn Vivian Ray Ione G. Slayden Edith Baum Sarah Cromar Naomi B. Harris Alta H. Murdock Afton F. Rencher Faun G. Eves 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Re a HE Photograph submitted by Vera R. Cantwell SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS SRECIAL PROGRAM "CHARACTERS AND TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON" Front row, standing, left to right: Hazen Hillyard as King Benjamin; Norman Ravsten as Nephi; Einar Pederson as Alma the First; Verena Weeks as a foreign descendant; Lucille Hillyard as a Jewish descendant; Mary Loosle as a Lamanite descendant; Cherrill Charle, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Charles Jensen as Moroni, Keith Jorgenson as Alma the Second; Ray Jorgenson as Mormon; Elva Ravsten, stake theology class leader. Vera R. Cantwell, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports that all the women of the stake were invited to this special program. The congregation sang "To Nephi Seer of Olden Time," and the prayer was offered by Alta C. Allen, former stake Relief Society president. Musical numbers were presented by the Newton and Clarkston Wards Singing Mothers, with Nene Barker conducting and Nola Jenkins at the piano. Benediction was by Anne M. Farr, a former stake Relief Society president. A beautiful display of the year's accomplishments was arranged by Venna Johnson and Wilma Cooley. Quilts, crocheting, copper work, artificial flowers, dish towels. And all manner of handwork were included in the attractive display. Refreshments were served by stake board members Florence Rigby, Selena Law, Jean Roylance, Burdetta Harris, and Roma Law. Paa 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 tograph submitted by Ora C. Mason NORTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 9, 1958 Seated at the left in the front row, left to mght: Ora C. Mason, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society; Bernice R. Mickelsen, First Counselor; Beth Bastian, organist. Standing at the right: Wilma Sorenson, chorister. The men in the back row, from left to right, are: Elder Ernest Bastian, High Councilman; members of the former stake presidency: Blaine C. Curtis; Dale H. Peterson; G. Glen Taylor. Photograph submitted by Luella T. Wilson KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, January 25, 1958 Stake Board members and visitors seated in the front row, left to right: Ruby Christensen, literature class leader; Nellie Brown, theology class leader; Senate Mendenhall, visiting teacher message leader; Eva Bird, social science class leader; Hilda Cherrington, Magazine representative; Ethel Jensen, Second Counselor; Luella T. Wilson, President; Lydia Thorn, First Counselor; Zelma Beardall, Secretary-Treasurer; Winniefred S. Manwaring, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society; Lora Whiting, former second counselor, Kolob Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 385 Photograph submitted by Anna Wright SOUTH BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 9, 1958 Leola Horrocks, chorister, ls standing in front of the organ; Beth Hoopes, organist, is seated at the organ. Anna Wright, President, South Blackfoot Stake Relief Society, reports that this chorus furnished the music for both sessions of the stake quarterly conference. There were ninety-five singers in the group. They also presented a lovely program at the December Relief Society union meeting. There are nine wards in South Blackfoot Stake. Photograph submitted by Jennie S. Bowman MEXICAN MISSION, AMERICAN BRANCH (MEXICO CITY) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: First Counselor Marylin Croshaw Haycock; President Lois Ipson Green; Second Counselor Erma Disney Tyler. Sister Bowman reports that a new American Branch Relief Society was organized July 5, 1957, and now has nine members, with usually some visitors from the United States attending the meetings. Jennie S. Bowman is president of the Mexican Mission Relief Society. 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Photograph submitted by Ruth W. Palmer FLAGSTAFF STAKE (ARIZONA) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED MORE THAN TWENTY-FIVE YEARS HONORED AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, December 7, 1957 Front row, standing, left to right: Emma Price; Martha Thomas; Rosetta Scott; Josephine Thompson; Eva Dietsman; Eliza Scott; Hazel Johnson; Amy Brown. Back row, standing, left to right: Mabel Hatch; May Shumway; Wilma Robinson; Zina Yates; Theresa Scott; Rilla Allen; Roberta Tanner; Grace Castleberry; Zella Lee; Myrtle Ray. Ruth W. Palmer, President, Flagstaff Stake Relief Society, reports that special recognition was given Sister Rosetta Scott who has served more than sixty years as a visiting teacher. All visiting teachers who attended were presented with a book of special tributes and gems for visiting teachers. Photograph submitted by Laura M, Wilkin OQUIRRH STAKE (UTAH), MAGNA FIRST WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT CHRISTMAS PROGRAM, December 22, 1957 Seated, in front, left to right: Pauline Larsen, accompanist; Noreen Chapman. First row, standing, left to right: Cleo Hales; Della Kone; Ida Beckstead; Althea NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Chapman; Donna Cross; Bertha Adams; Ann Richards; Lois Nay; Melva Jena Hicks; Mildred Caldwell; Ina Pendleton; Norma Bowen; Luclla Newbold, chorister. Back row, standing, left to right: Laurel Collings; Elizabeth Beckstead; Francis Hutchinson; Phyllis Johnson; Joan Duckworth; Doris Peterson; Julia Cimmers; Rhoda Mitchell; Izella Jeppson; Myrtle Bruce. Laura M. Wilkin, President, Oquirrh Stake Relief Society, reports that a lovely Christmas program was presented in the Magna First Ward by the Singing Mothers under the direction of Luclla Newbold, chorister, and accompanist Pauline Larsen. The soloists were Kathleen Pearce, Mildred Caldwell, Melva Jean Hicks, and Ina Pendleton. The reader was Lois Nav. The group sang "O, Holy Night," "The Holy City," and a medley of familiar Christmas carols. Photograph submitted by Eliza L. Robinson STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING), OSMOND WARD CHRISTMAS BAZAAR December 1957 Standing, left to right: Lanea Allred, First Counselor, Ruby Erickson, Second Counselor; Ada Gomm, work meeting leader; Joyce Longhurst, President. Fliza L. Robinson, President, Star Valley Stake Relief Society, reports that this bazaar was held just before Christmas. "Ihe bazaar was very successful. Practically every woman in the ward participated. The proceeds will go to help buy a piano for the Relief Society room.... We are very proud to report that the Osmond Ward Relief Society had the highest percentage of attendance at meetings in our stake during the year 1956 and tied with the Fairview Ward for 1957." 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Photograph submitted by Catherine Child LAKE VIEW STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 19, 1958 Standing in the front row, at the extreme might, is chorister Iola Belnap Murray. Organist Louise Davenport was absent when this picture was taken. Catherine Child, President, Lake View Stake Relief Society, reports that the chorus sang in both sessions of the stake quarterly conference and one of the six numbers presented was "Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend," by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Janet Maughan SAN LUIS OBISPO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), LOMPOC WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR SPECIAL OCCASIONS Front row, seated, left to right: Genive Rich; Shirley Staffenson, Second Counselor; Patricia Westerlund; Lorraine Carr, organist; Edith Swonger, Secretary; Barbara Sanchez; Nydia Hansen; 'Thelma Lewis, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Celia Staffenson, chorister; Marilyn Spence; Faye Swonger; Lora Jackson; Sadie Burt, President; Mary Christensen. Janet Maughan, President, San Luis Obispo Stake Relief Society, reports that this group is a part of the stake Singing Mothers chorus. The picture was taken in the Relief Society room, shortly after the decorating was completed. "The room is beautiful and is certainly a monument to the Relief Society organization." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 aN Photograph submitted by Beryl W. Warner SAN MATEO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) NEW RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY REPRESENTS FIFTY-EIGHT YEARS OF EXPERIENCE In front, left to right: President Beryl W. Warner; Secretary Inez V. Suhlsen. At the back: Second Counselor Naomi B. Bodily; First Counsclor Thelma G. Howard. These officers represent fifty-eight years of Relief Society service previous to their present position, and cach has served as the first president of a newly organized Relief Socicty: Sister Warner was the first president of the San Carlos Ward Relief Society; Sister Suhlscn was first president of the Redwood City Relief Society; Sister Bodily was first president of the Castro Valley Ward Relief Society; Sister Howard served as president in the newly divided Redwood City Ward Relief Society. Other members of the stake board are: Alta Johnson, stake chorister; Harriet Zeitschel Magazine representative; Dorothy Peterson visiting teacher message leader; Cora Burmester, theology leader; Leeta Squire, literature leader; Phocbe Paine, social science leader; Marcell Weaver, work meeting leader. —— w is Mother s Way Tris W. Schow She laid her body like a wall To shield her little one from harm; She made a cover of her heart And her cupped hands to keep him warm. Her footprints marked the narrow way His feet might follow to his goal; And for the nurture of his mind She spread a feast from her own soul. 340 Organ Collections for the Church and Home a AT THE CONSOLE—Felton.... 2.00 CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser.. 1.50 — DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM—Asper.............--.--.---- 2.50 = EASY CHURCH VOLUNTARIES—Nolte...._....... 1.50 —- FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols, 1, 2, 3— Lorenz. Ea. 1.50 — ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper.............-.-.... 2.75 = ORGAN VISTAS—Presser...... 1.50 a ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1 & 2—Schreiner...... Ea. 3.50 —— REED ORGAN PLAYER— Ditson _.....2222-222. E. Ee eeeeeee eee eee 1.00 — REED ORGAN SELECTIONS— OS 1.00 — 70 SOLOS FOR HAMMOND OR REED ORGAN...._............. 1.25 —. 33 FAVORITE SOLOS FOR CHURCH AND GENERAL USE 1.50 The above organ collections are a very small part of our organ stock. We carry a large stock of books for every make of organ. Try us for your musical needs. Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval 0 Charge 1 Money Enclosed ame ddress () oS 74 ity & State Daynes Mia&e | 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1958 Elizabeth's Children (Continued from page 322) nothing pressing, could I take off again for a little while?" "You've certainly earned a bonus trip," he agreed. "That magnificent job you've just done! Where will you go?" She smiled at that. "As if you didn't know the only place that holds any interest for me!" "But your sister's children don't need you this time, I suppose. It must be...." "T'm thinking of myself this time, Brent. I'm tired." "Tm sorry, Carol. Go and have a good time." "Thanks, Brent." She hesitated, then said doubtfully, "Why don't you take a vacation, too? You look as weary as I feel. And everything's slowed down in this heat. Anyway, that young assistant of yours — my competition — Lew Zane, can handle everything." Brent looked at her shrewdly. "I might just do that, Carol. Where would you suggest I go for a rest?" "Why not Wyoming? Jacksons Hole? It's the most restful place I've ever found. 'There's a wonderful dude ranch not far from Fred's. There are fishing and hunting and camping, lakes and rivers, mountains —it has everything! And you could join us on our excursions. Fred knows every interesting spot within miles, and Tony has all sorts of equipment." Carol saw the man's look change. It had been intently reflective, as if visioning a tranquil, happy world. Now, in an instant, it was shuttered, withdrawn. "No, thank you, Carol. I don't ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN imagine I'd enjoy that. I think Pll betake myself to San Francisco. That's a town where a man can have a real vacation — boating, deep sea diving — and the best food on earth." "Yes," Carol agreed, "it's one of my favorite cities. Well, then, have a good time, Brent. We'll probably both feel more like tackling the winter when we get back." On her way to her studio apartment, Carol was thinking that she should call Fred and tell him she was coming. He would certainly let Tony know. The pavement, heated by the pounding rays of the midsummer sun, scorched the soles of her feet through her thin summer shoes. She sighed. It would be good to get away. Maybe San Francisco would have been fun for her, too, but Brent hadn't suggested that she go there. But Wyoming had _attractions the coast city lacked. Elizabeth's children would be waiting for her. It was less than four months since she had seen them, but already her arms ached for the feel of their sturdy young bodies. Now she would see them again, talk to them, hold them close. And, no matter how much Dolly Graham might have taken over their lives, she would know the joy of being near her loved ones again. (To be continued) <-> Canyon Word Pansye H. Powell Peace Is a canyon word Taught to the tired soul By pines and aspens whispering At dusk. 341 LONDON Air Polar Route Terager Tours $698 00 up Write: KEITH GUDMUNDSON L. D. S. Tours 327 East Manchester Blvd. Inglewood 1, California SALT LAKE CITY Telephone DA 2-1129 LOS ANGELES Telephone OR 8-2913 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Pure Vermont Maple Syrup Vermont Grade A Gal. $8.95 1% Gal. $5.25 Qt. $3.25 Pint $1.90 ALL SHIPMENTS POSTPAID Graham A. Clark P. O. Box 449 Brattleboro, Vermont © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles... Ieee 35 150 to 300 miles..........—.. Xy 300 to 600 miles —.........2... -45 600 to 1000 miles —_..... 2...54 1000 to 1400 miles 2....64 1400 to 1800 miles........0...2220... 716 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Se Pee Page 342 Tlothers Setters Emma Ann Bigelow We used to get a letter Every day or two. She'd talk about the weather, How she loved the view Of the valley From the front porch After rain. Little things that pleased her, Like the rose beside the door, The inner satisfaction Of a well-scrubbed kitchen floor. A cookie for a neighbor child, A visit to a friend, A better way for making bread— These were the words she'd send. Remembered words—encouraging and dear; Of love and understanding, confidence and cheer. Remembered deeds—the night we climbed the hill And watched the great full harvest moon The earth with splendor fill. Hard work well done, A joy shared, Faith unshakeable. And though she's gone, I still receive, In some sweet way, A letter from my Mother Every day. Fie — Send ils Leslie Savage Clark With tendrils, sensitive and frail As a morning glory vine That needs to cling to greater strength, A child's small heart may twine Its yearnings round another's life. There, sunned, its flowers expand— So brief, so vulnerable to frost Or clumsy hand. Papa and His Grapes (Continued from page 303) "Move to one side, please," her father admonished Jamie. He dragged forth the paper bag of grapes. "They're already washed," he went on, stretching out his hands with the open bag toward Jamie. "I always say there isn't anything quite as tasty as a grape.' "They're my favorite after-dinner fruit, too," Jamie agreed. And he helped himself to a double handful. Then he turned back to her mother. "As I was saying," he went on, "there isn't anything I believe in more than in people being themselves." There in the doorway, for the first time, a shamed Celia was convinced of it, too. God s Gift to Mle Bernice D. Savage God gave to us the sunshine And the roses sweet with dew; He gave to us the twilight And he gave the rainbow's hue, The golden dawn of morning That brings to us our day; And the afterglow of evening As we see the sun's last ray. But he gave a greater beauty When he gave a mother's love, For it finds its source in heaven And it lifts our souls above; And though I love the beauty Of the sun and land and sea, Yet motherhood is the choicest gift That God has given to me. Margaret Lund Tours Hawaiian Tour Leaves June 17 on the S. S. LEILANI, and returns by plane, July 5. Historical L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at HILL CUMORAH; Historical places of the Church; New York; Chicago; Washington; Canada; Niagara Falls; Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City Aug. 2, 1958. $210.00 for 23 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. European Tour Leaves Aug. 18, 1958. Will visit London and Berne, Switzerland, Temples. For further information write or phone: Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23 East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 — AM 2-2337 — CR 7-6334 COOKING ELECTRICALLY brings better food with e less work \XK ¥v ® Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Page 343 VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Selt Loke City, Utoh Phone: EM 4-2017 @ LONDON TEMPLE DEDICATION We hove severo be im Ewrope tor the Lowden Temple Dedicatoom One for evem pocket book tours that will HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT Thre Hesteric Trois end Histonc Bus pers botk leove Aegest } w 1953 Woke THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin Tie Stee € St-atvveri of Pyanes EVERETT Finest Tooed Spreet Piono Bilt cose Cable-Nelson Fimest Low Priced Pione Beilt Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Prono Pespic Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Ira UE eA Meas CanoLine Beat Burr Provo. Utah Ninety-seven pkKES Harris Mas. Errzasera Jane Terry Bram 1: r, U an {aay Cu ARK Ricsy wages -- P a7. = aN Mas. ELnoas Some? NSEN Has YEMOND ee | Id a PRUE CE we Ninety-three Pleasant Grove, Utah Ninety-one Mas. Eva Barton Geoespeck Salt Lake City. Ucal Mis. ANNa Anpesso~n Peterson at — ITs Mas. Anxa Mar ALtLpep Oaxpen ae Ts Mes. Atice Anw Hitt Carros Ninety Migs. Nancy E. Henparces Suita Mesa. Arona s. B tt Car we Hansen JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utal Mas. Loctnos Baower Bare Richmond, Utal Meas. Sana Marre ALEXANDER ( rome. Kansas 05. MAIN ST Mas. Jose SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH NE Dec cxerson West Your Part in the Fabulous Years Ahead" Leadership Week-June 23-28, 1958 Special Relief Society Helps Intensive Genealogy Courses "Helps" For L. D. S. Auxiliary Organization Workers Special Cultural and Religious Programs Over 500 Offerings in Many Fields Registration Fee: $2.00 for the Entire Week -==------------~---------------- CLIP AND MAIL -------------------------------- To: LEADERSHIP WEEK Adult Education and Extension Services Room 220, SSC Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah Pen 2 oc oc ee ne ere eo AA DI TSE E IIE I A TIT TTT E TT TICIE (Mr.) (Miss) (Mrs.) Last Name First Middle ADDRESS........ - ee Street City State VA ) — —— a. — 5 es (1 Enclosed $2.00 Registration Make Checks payable to 8. Y. U. Extension Services A new book by a beloved leader... 'Che Candle of the Lord a Ls DR. ADAM S. BENNION "a ad at a 28 zt sands faith and inspiration through his actions and deeds, speaks again on themes nearest and dearest to his heart: the spiritual life, love of country, youth, and the noble potentialities of man. Each page of this book reveals the gifted, friendly spirit of, 7. A beloved Apostle, who brought to thouThe Candle oftweHord a. Angele. Adam §. Bennion—his dynamic personality that sparked the personalities of others to noble action. $3.75 For beginner or expert.. 2 The Genealogical Reader NOEL C. STEVENSON Choice selections by top authorities on genealogical research are compiled together in this one handy volume. Many points-of-view are represented, and various methods of research offered. If you are beginner or veteran genealogist, you will certainly want to own this book. I DESERET BOOk COMPANY | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) 1! Have an account. | | | books: 1 i ee eee oe eco con nnn cap co0 0 saesanpssascosccnrrassacennacscengess=2=02252035 | CS em occcoccencs Zone... State. = Residents of Utah include 2% 'sales tax. { re ee re ee ce ee ee i Please charge. Amount enclosed $....... Cence for encircled (numbered) = UTEP POCUETY m A @ wo W 18 JUNE 1958 As J Pass By Margery S. Stewart Let a hundred roses lift Their velvet richness to my eyes, But if my heart and mind are closed I will go blindly past the gift. Though a symphony is played So rapturously that men are swept Beyond the bounds of space and time, But my own spirit, cold, unswayed Refuses to unfold its wings, I have not heard, though ears go deaf With cymbal clash and viol cry. Though the greatest love earth knows Pours down in splendor from his house, And I, all loveless as a sieve, Can keep no droplet as it flows, How can it bless me or my ways? Oh, let me always be aware, My mind an ever open door, My heart safe harbor for his rays. Then nothing fair in flower or clef Shall be withheld as I pass by. The Cover: A View in Rothenburg, West Germany Courtesy Luttgens, Rothenburg Photograph submitted by Bernice O. Dyer Frontispiece: The Hoover Rose Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. Many of the covers are especially lovely. I save them all, and have read the stories and articles and poems many times. In this way I feel that I know many of the contributors. —Elsie McKinnon Strachan Santa Ana, California My mother was delighted when I read to her an item from the April issue of the Magazine in the Sixty Years Ago department concerning a San Juan Stake Relief Society Conference at Bluff. President Martha Hammond, wife of President Francis A. Hammond, was my foster grandmother. Then President Elnora (Nora) Hammond, as reporting the Mancos, Colorado, Relief Society is my mother, who will soon be ninety-five years old. She presided over the Mancos organization for twelve years, riding side saddle to the meetings. Mother is still alert in her mind and it is a joy to converse with her. —Mrs. Jess Lindsay Moreland, Idaho May I tell you I especially enjoy the recipes anc homemaking suggestions in the Magazine. Since coming to New Zealand (my husband is here to help get the college started), one of the biggest changes has been in our food habits.... Sister Vernice Rosenval... Is here on the Church college project, and she has helped all of us by compiling a recipe book for this area. A good number of the recipes she demonstrated and put in the booklet were taken from The Relief Society Magazine, with all credit due each one noted at the bottom of the page. —Mrs. Collins E. Jones Frankton Junction New Zealand I do appreciate our wonderful Magazine, as we are seventy miles round trip away from our chapel, and Sunday is about the only day we are able to make the trip, so I am able to attend very little Relief Society. I look forward each month to the time the Magazine arrives. —Mrs. LaRue Wilde McPherson, Kansas Page 346 I feel today that I would be quite ungrateful if I did not write and tell you how much I glean from our Magazine. I was about to write "little" Magazine, but it is small only in size, for it seems to cover the universe. What started this was Sister Frances Yost's story in the April issue, "The Heart of the Home...." We have four children and are expecting a fifth, and I surely admit to being the kind of mother who shoos her children away while she works. I know that this is wrong... So I read from the writings of our Church, and J pray and then the stories from The Relief Society Magazine, the editorials, the words of wisdom, bring me back to the right way. —Mrs. Patricia Mullett Escondido, California I cannot tell you how much the Magazine means to me, especially during the past year, since we were transferred to this isolated outpost of Big Bend National Park (twenty-seven miles to my nearest neighbor, seventy-five miles to a grocery store, and 150 miles to Monahans, T'exas, our closest branch of the Church). The story "Strength for the Way," by Sylvia Probst Young, in the January 1957 issue of the Magazine has been a great help to me. Now, whenever I need "strength for the way," I pick up a Relief Society Magazine and can always find something of spiritual value to help me face another day.. —Mrs. Norma S. Bryce Big Bend National Park, Texas On behalf of all New Zealand Relief Society sisters, may I tell you how much we enjoy belonging to the wonderful organization. Although we do not know you members personally, we are very much aware of our sisterhood through the pages of the Magazine, and the photographs and inspiring articles contained in its pages. For though the miles divide us here, And seas keep us apart, We walk with you in fellowship And keep you in our heart. —Thelma E. Goebel Auckland, New Zealand THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - = President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 JUNE 1958 NO. 6 C ontents SPECIAL FEATURES Father's True Place in the Home: Bruce R. McConkie 348 The Prophet Joseph Smith's Tribute to His Father oo.. C. Ccccccccscssssssssssssesossossecsessesseesesscen-ssseseesssessseseseeee.. Ool Hugh B. Brown — New Apostle oo........ CcccccssesssccsscsecssseeeesessscseessssssssesseosovesseosststsssotereessseceeHarold B. Lee 352 Gordon B. Hinckley — An Impression -000..0... E.-cssese-- ——. S. Dilworth Young 358 Henry Dixon Taylor Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve ae, a5, ee: =: LeGrand Richards 360 A. Theodore Tuttle Appointed to the First Council of Seventy. O.. Cccccccseccsscs---William E. Berrett 363 Preston R. Nibley Ee Accidents: The Greatest Threat to Our Children oo. O..-cccceccccssescesesseees1Alan K. Done 380 NVVAMEIN unt, Eat Pesce seccccesescce cose scan concn seccsetbse¥scvenso-csececesnsstesascesnsasecanencecssesseceeseseesecesdllDeone R. Sutherland 368 Sweet Is the Faith of a Child.. Mabel Law Atkinson 384 Elizabeth's Children — Chapter 6 Olive W. Burt 391 From Near and Far 346 Sixty Years Ago 7 - en ae 372 Woman's Sphere oe... Ecccccecceseccsecseececereeeseceneeees - Ramona W. Cannon 373 Editorial: The 128th Annual Church Conference...... F... Westa P. Crawford 374 In Memoriam—Ruth May Fox.... Ee —_ 376 Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting 0.0...... 376 Hymn of the Month—Annual List = -. OH Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 00.0.0... Hulda Parker 396 Birthday Congratulations... SS... A. = 414 FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Magic Hour Ruth H. Solomon 365 Recipes From the West German Mission..........-..: scsscsssssssscsessessssessesessoeceseessecuesesencessoesBernice O. Dyer 379 Teaching Aids for the 1958-59 Lessons Mary R. Young 399 eosesceseenengeeeeeceeeeetseseeetereeeereeeee ROY W. Doxey 401 Visiting Teacher Messages — Truth to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Sas ee saan es Christine H. Robinson 403 Work Meeting — Managing ao Home oooeeacccccssccccsccccscssscssestssesesssesssssseteesesesesseneceVesta Wright Barnett 405 Literature — America's Literature — Meet the New World _.0.00...0..0..-.-..... Briant §. Jacobs 406 Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life 0.000.000. = =, Notes on the Authors of the Lessons..................... ——: POETRY As I Pass By — Frontispiece sesstesesusseeeceeee Margery §. Stewart 345 Wheat Grower's Children, by Iris W. Schow, 351; Garden Rendezvous, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 357; And Seek No More, by Velma_N. Simonsen, 362 Lullaby of Silence, by Maude Rubin, 383; A Son Receives His Diploma, by Elsie McKinnon Strachan, 386; My House, by Vesta Ball Ward, 389; Blueprint, by Pansye H. Powell, 390; Vandal, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 411; Love Is Enough, by Eunice J. Miles, 412. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Father's True Place in the Home Elder Bruce R. McConkie.... Of the First Council of Seventy FE Mormons are a unique and a peculiar people, and our chief peculiarities center around the family unit and the relationships which the family members bear towards each other. This article on the Father's True Place in the Home is written to the women of the Church for two reasons: 1. So wives and mothers in Israel may be reminded of their own high and proper position in the eternal family "partnership"; and 2. So they may "provoke the brethren to good works" within the true and correct meaning of this familiar expression. When I think of the father's true place in the home, I think of my own father, Oscar W. McConkie, who stands as the ideal parent to his own family. By precept and example he has manifest what to me is the perfect pattern for Latter-day Saint living, and such suggestions s I shall make on this subject are but repetitions of his teachings or a recording: of his example to me and his other children. Now for us in the Lord's latterday kingdom there is an entirely different view as to the home, the family, the relationship of husbands to wives, and of parents to children, than prevails anywhere else in the world. We have an eternal perspective of life and its relationships. We know, for instance, that we spent an infinitely long period of time in the pre-existent eternities preparing for Page 348 the privilege of coming to this earth, of gaining bodies of flesh and bones, and of making the family arrangements that would enable us to progress to a state of exaltation and godhood in which we would be like our Eternal Father. We know that our chief goal as members of the Church is to create for ourselves an eternal family unit, one that will endure in time and eternity, one that will make us husband and wife, mother and daughter, and father and son both here and hereafter. 'The very exaltation which we seek consists in the continuation of the family unit in eternity. If the family unit continues in eternity, its members have exaltation and gain the fulness of the Father's kingdom; if the family unit does not continue, its members fall short of the highest heaven and receive instead a lesser degree of salvation in a lower sphere. It follows that while in this life we are laying the foundations for an eternal family, one that is patterned after the Lord's eternal family rather than after the lesser and sometimes carnal order that prevails among men. We are here gaining experience and learning the principles of family organization and operation that will continue on and be perfected in eternity. Accordingly, every true Latter-day Saint home has its beginning with a celestial marriage, one in which the covenanting parties are promised the highest blessings which man FATHER'S TRUE PLACE IN THE HOME can obtain, provided. They keep all of the laws and requirements of the holy order of matrimony which they thus enter. Adam and Eve were so married, and to them the command came to multiply and fill the earth with posterity. And as to their relationship in this mortal sphere, the Lord said, speaking to Eve: "T'hy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee" (Genesis 3:16). Thus the pattern was set for the most perfect and important organization on earth, the family unit. And thus the divine system was inaugurated under which the husband is the head of the house, with the rights of decision and _presidency resting in him. Manifestly, as President Joseph F. Smith has expressed it, "It is intended that that tule shall be in love and not in tyranny" (Gospel Doctrine, 5th Edition, page 274), but nonetheless the husband is the head, and the wife is obligated by the gospel law to abide by his counsel in righteousness. If a man cannot preside and rule in his own home, thus having opportunity to prepare for rule and presidency in a celestial sphere, how can he ever stand as a king and a priest in eternity? And if a woman cannot submit herself in meekness and love to sustaining and upholding the hands of her earthly leader, how can she develop those attributes without which exaltation cannot exist? VERY true Latter-day Saint father is a natural patriarch to his family. Having been married in the temple, and having thereby made himself an heir of all the 349 blessings of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, he presides in the true patriarchal order. Since he is destined to rule and reign forever with others of the chosen seed of Israel, it follows that both spiritual and temporal affairs should be centered in him here and now. As Jacob blessed his offspring anciently, so may fathers in modern times bless their children. Indeed, patriarchal blessings themselves, properly and rightly, may come from those fathers who themselves hold the Priesthood and enjoy the blessings of the patriarchs of old. President John 'Taylor said: Every father, after he has received his patriarchal blessing, is a patriarch to his own family, and has the right to confer patriarchal blessings upon his family; which blessings will be just as legal as those conferred by. Any patriarch of the Church: in fact it is his right; and a patriarch in blessing his children, can only bless as his mouthpiece (Gospel Kingdom, page 146; Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation, Volume 3, page 172). Fathers should provide not only temporal support, but spiritual comfort and blessings for their families. In the spiritual field, this principle has been summarized by the General Priesthood Committee in these words: The power of the priesthood should be used in the home to bless the family. When children are ill, the father should administer to them, and the family should unite in prayer and faith fer their recovery. Bishops and others who have power to designate who shall perform baptisms, ordinations, and _ priesthood ordinances should arrange it so that worthy fathers baptize, confirm, ordain, and bless their own children. The father should be the patriarch of his family (The Improvement Era, April 1958, page 251). 350 President Joseph F. Smith spoke similarly: The father, if he is worthy of his Priesthood, has certain mghts and authority within his family, comparable to those of the bishop with relation to the ward. Too often amongst us the head of the family, though he holds the higher priesthood, fails to magnify his calling as the spiritual head of his household. It would be better if every elder who is a father rose to the dignity of his position, and officiated in his holy office within his family organization. He may call to his aid any others who are worthy holders of the requisite authority in the Priesthood, but it is his privilege to stand as the head of his household, and to perform the ordinances pertaining to his family (Gospel Doctrine, sth Edition, page 291). VERY Latter-day Saint home should be a temple of learning, with every member of the family receiving training in gospel scholarship. Fathers should be the chief instructors; whenever members of the family are together, gospel truths may properly become the center of conversation. Teaching by precept as well as example is a seven day a week matter. After calling the attention of ancient Israel to the basic doctrines of salvation, Moses said: ~ And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou lest down, and when thou risest up (Deut. 6:6-7). Are we any less in need of continual gospel teaching in the home than they were anciently? (See D & C 68:25-31.) Obviously parents must not only teach but live the Lord's laws. If RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 they keep the Word of Wisdom, pay an honest tithing, attend sacrament meeting regularly, honor the Sabbath, have family prayer twice daily, offer a blessing on the food at each meal, avoid speaking evilly of neighbors and Church officers, are honest in their business dealings, are modest in dress and manner, and manifest love, kindness, and affection towards each other and the children, then the very home environment itself will teach the standards of personal righteousness which are part of the gospel of salvation. President Joseph F. Smith said: A man and woman who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ and who have begun life together, should be able by their power, example and influence to cause their children to emulate them in lives of virtue, honor, and in integrity to the kingdom of God which will redound to their own interest and salvation. No one can advise my children with greater earnestness and solicitude for their happiness and salvation than I can myself. Nobody has more interest in the welfare of my own children than I have. I cannot be satisfied without them. They are part of me. 'They are mine; God has given them to me, and I want them to be humble and submissive to the requirements of the gospel. I want them to do right, and to be right in every particular, so that they will be worthy of the distinction that the Lord has given them in being numbered among his covenant people who are choice above all other people, because they have made sacrifice for their own salvation in the truth (Gospel Doctrine, sth Edition, page 278). Every father and mother in Israel can achieve true greatness in and through their family and the proper conduct of their home affairs. It is not prominence in Church, civic, social, business, or educational fields that is of paramount importance. GORDON B. HINCKLEY — AN IMPRESSION Courtesy The Deseret News ELDER GORDON B. HINCKLEY AND HIS FAMILY Left to mght: Virginia; Marjorie Pay Hinckley, holding Cynthia Jane; Elder Hinckley; Kathleen; Richard; Clark (kneeling). Flung missions of the Church are implemented by this pleasant, unhurried man. New mission presidents and their wives are instructed in mission policy with unruffled calmness and assurance. The Sunday night Church broadcasts, with their to-the-second timing, pass through his nimble fingers. Prospective speeches for broadcasts on national hookups are read by him with tactful suggestions on how to eliminate parts which might give offense to the audience or be misrepresentative of the Church viewpoint. No one can be offended at his tactful, gentle censorship of these important public pronouncements. There is to be a last minute checkup on the detail of program at the Swiss Temple. All one learns is that Brother Hinckley has gone to Switzerland for a few days. He'll be back Thursday. The temple ceremonies must be in several languages. You will find Gordon B. Hinckley over at the temple watching with keen eye for any mistranslations. One could go on and on. With the easy grace of the natural executive, the born director of men, Gordon B. Hinckley plows steadily through the mountain of detail of the far-flung operations of the Church. Firm where firmness is needed, yet firm without being resented, kind and gentle all of the time, he comes to his new position better prepared than most. He has been tried in the furnace. He has never been found wanting. We have not mentioned that, in addition to his daily responsibility, he is president of East Millcreek Stake. He finds time, too, to preside over one of the most charming and delightful families in the Church. He comes to the new position as Assistant to the Twelve well prepared to implement their work and to love and serve the people. In the words of his favorite telephone ending, we say, "Good enough!" Henry Dixon Taylor Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Swelve Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of the Twelve ELDER HENRY D. TAYLOR N the appointment of Henry Dixon 'Taylor to the high calling of an Assistant to the Twelve Apostles in his Church, the Lord has but recognized one of the "noble and great spirits" among whom he stood when he said unto Abraham: These I will make my rulers... And he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born (Abraham 3:23). This call is in keeping with the words of the prophet, "A good man obtaineth favor of the Lord." Carlisle has said: "What the world needs is a man who knows God otherwise than by hearsay," and such a man is Elder Taylor. During the month of January of Page 360 this year, it was my privilege to tour the California Mission with President and Sister Taylor, and as I listened to his instructions and testimeny to the missionaries and saints, it was evident that he is a man who truly knows God. His were not idle words, but were accompanied by the testimony of the Holy Spirit which as their president has won for him a place in their hearts which is ample compensation for the great sacrifice he made in leaving his business to accept the call from the Lord through his prophet to preside over the mission. Elder 'Taylor was born November 22, 1903, a son of Arthur N. And Maria Dixon 'Taylor. He has four living brothers, each of whom has served as a bishop and one is now president of a stake. He has two sisters. He graduated from the Brigham Young University in 1929 with a B. S. Degree, obtained his M. S. Degree from the New York University of Retailing in 1937, filled a mission in the Eastern States from 1924 to 1926. Of his missionary labors, President B. H. Roberts reported: "Elder Taylor, as traveling elder, as conference president, as secretary of the mission, president of the mission Sunday Schools and Y. M. M. LA. Proved to be an efficient elder in all these capacities." He served as a president in the 123d Quorum of Seventy; received his Master M Men award in 1939. HENRY DIXON TAYLOR Courtesy The Deseret News 361 2% ELDER HENRY D. TAYLOR AND FAMILY At left: David A. Elder 'Taylor; right, Alta Hansen Taylor; center, Stephen K.; at right, Not in the picture are two sons: Henry D. Taylor, Jr. Of Palo Alto, California, and Anthony H. 'Taylor, serving a mission in New Zealand. From 1933 to 1940 he served as a member of the high council in the Sharon Stake, then as stake clerk until 1944. He was called to be the bishop of Pleasant View Ward in 1944, serving two years until his appointment as president of the Sharon Stake. When the stake was divided in 1952, he was named president of the East Sharon Stake. He served as chairman of the Central Utah Welfare Region in 1951 and later was named president of the newly created Mt. Timpanogos Welfare Region. He was vice-president and chairman of the executive committee of the Utah Valley Hospital, vice president of the Bonneville Development Company, secretary and treasurer and assistant manager of DixonTaylor-Russell Company of Provo. He is a past president of the Provo Chamber of Commerce and Kiwanis Club. Such a background of training has prepared Elder Taylor to be a wise counselor as he visits the stakes and missions of the Church. Elder 'Taylor is sustained by a loving, capable companion of great faith and devotion. She, Alta Hansen Taylor, was born in Richfield, a daughter of A. K. And Amelia Heppler Hansen. She graduated from the B. Y. U. In 1929. She has been 362 active in Church and civic affairs, a teacher in M. I. A. And Primary, a member of the stake Primary and Relief Society boards. She served in the presidency of ward Relief Society, president of P. T. A., president of Literary League and member of the B. Y. U. Alumni Association Board of 'Trustees. Elder and Sister 'Taylor have four sons. 'The oldest, Henry D., Jr. Is married. Anthony H. Is completing a mission in New Zealand. Steven K. And David A. Are with their parents at the mission home. Typical of the high regard in which Elder Taylor is held by all who know him are these excerpts from comments from his former counselor in the stake presidency and his counselors in the mission presidency: "There isn't another stake president like him. He has everything." "T have never met a man who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 was so easy to be with and know. His life to me was as an open book so full of warmth, spirituality, and understanding." "Here is a man who has literally devoted his life to the building up of the kingdom of God on earth. Here is a man who relies continually upon the Lord for wisdom and judgment. Here is a man who lives his life in such a way that he enjoys the companionship of the Spirit of the Lord in all his doings." With his natural endowments and broad experience, sustained by his great faith and the prayers of the saints and the inspiration and support of his lovely companion, Elder Taylor will be a great servant of the Master in the blessing of his children and the building of his kingdom in the earth. Elder 'Taylor was set apart for this special calling on April 10, 1958, by President David O. McKay. — And Seek To Mlore Velma N. Oh, restful summer Simonsen day, I woo your peace from my cabin door; My worried soul sweet solace finds, For God speaks to me from every pore Of quaking aspens, grass, and pines. And I step forth with courage, Strong for what God has for me in store. Oh, restless, seeking world! I would on you God's elixir pour, That you might find the word divine, That you might know the peace that's mine— And seek no more. A. Theodore Tuttle Appointed to the First Council of Seventy Elder William E. Berrett Vice-Administrator, Church Department of Education ELDER A. THEODORE TUTTLE T is not strange that when one sees his fellow man elevated to a place of honor there is a moment of reflection during which one casts about for the secret to such selection. Outwardly men appear so much alike — a sameness of dress and style; a similarity of posture; a common susceptibility to the inroads of time — that it is a bit startling to discover suddenly the individual differences. In the life of A. Theodore Tuttle, newest member of the Council of Seventy, one can see the ladder fashioned by this man in his early years and witness the steady climb up its rungs. His was not a complicated ladder. It was rather simplicity itself, for it was built out of the simple decisions which come in daily living. But the ladder had a solid foundation in the faith of his parents and the simple honesty of the little Sanpete community of Manti which he called home. Its top rested on the assurance which comes from belief in the revelations of God. From his birth A. Ted 'Tuttle lived the life of a normal Latter-day Saint boy reared in a faithful Mormon family, his mother, Clarice Beal Tuttle, an ardent worker in the temple, which overshadowed their home, and president of the stake Relief Society; his father, Albert M. 'Tuttle, a sheep rancher, cattle buyer, and high priest in the Church. Two things stand out concerning this period of his youth: he seemed always to have believed in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and he seemed always to have been establishing goals to be reached — rungs on the ladder already being built. Successively, his achievements are chronicled by honors which came to him, president of the seminary at Manti, president of the high school student body, president of the freshman class in Snow College, district president in the Northern States Mission, president of Delta Phi, returned missionary fraternity at Brigham Young University, outstanding senior in the division of religion 1943, seminary teacher, institute director, supervisor of semiPage 363 364 ELDER A. THEODORE T UTTLE AND HIS FAMILY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Fi Front row, left to right: Marne Whitaker Tuttle; Clarissa Marne; Jonathan Whitaker; Elder Tuttle. Back row, left to right: Diane; Robert Theodore; David Merrill. Naries and institutes for the Church, and now one of the Seven Presidents of the First Quorum of Seventy. ONE must not suppose that such a ladder could be clintbed alone. On July 26, 1943, he induced a companion to make the climb with him, and Marne Whitaker, from Ellensburg, Washington, a Brigham Young University student, enters the picture. Like all men who achieve, he needed a bit of a push by his good wife and five fine children for those higher rungs. And it took a bit of the fire and carnage on Iwo Jima, and leadership of the Latterday Saint Marines in the Fifth Marine Division to toughen the fiber and test the soul. It was in those war-torn years that the faith of a mother, the courage of a wife, and the habits of a lifetime weighted the scales toward righteousness. In those days he must have remembered and felt the influence of the Priesthood Quorums, the Sunday Schools, the Mutual Improvement Association, the sacrament meetings, and yes, the Relief Society — for he recalls the years when his mother was stake Relief Society president and the secretary lived six miles away, so the burden of the immediate secretarial work fell on young Ted, the high school student, who says, "It seems to me that I must have typed the slogan 'Members old, members new — 100,000 by 42,' at least 100,000 times." Yes, President Tuttle, leader extraordinary, is a product of the Church of Jesus Christ. She Mlagic Flour Ruth H. Solomon ODAY as I walk beside the river with my small four-year-old-son, what a swect companionship I feel! The forty-three years difference in our ages sccms to melt away as we enjoy together the wonder and majesty of nature. An carly spring wind is blowing sharply, and the chill of it cuts through the brilliant sunshine. The wind, with its long fingers, ruffles and tousles our hair. My face and bare legs tingle to its coldness, and I draw my leather jacket closer around me. We look at the river as we pause by the edge where the bank, littered with dried plants and sticks, gives way to the sand of the beach sloping to meet the water. It is early March, and the vegetation along the river is beginning to awaken again to another growing, living spring. We watch the gentle lapping of the water against the bank as the waves gracefully bubble over the sand, giving it a smooth silky sheen as they recede. Each wave secms exactly to match the previous one. Then, without warning, from the river made tumultuous by the demanding wind, comes a larger wave which slaps angrily at the shore. "Oh, Mother, see the big fish," my small son cries excitedly as he points to a rock slightly protruding from the water like some partly submerged animal. And then suddenly, "Can we take off our shoes and wade across to those little houses?" He points eagerly across the great expanse of blue, shimmering waves, some white with foam, on the farther side. How close the far shore looks, and still I know the deception of this inviting, treacherous, yet magnificent river. I patiently try to explain why the houses on the farther side are miniature toys and the cars creep along like busy ants. Caught up by the magic of this moment with my son, we stand quietly and watch a piece of driftwood as it floats silently and lazily past. I wonder briefly where it came from. How many days has it traveled aimlessly down the river? How like a life without a purpose it is! Silhouetted against the azure of the water, my son in patched overalls with the beloved, ragged straw hat tied under his chin, stands as close to the edge as he dares. My heart fills with love and pride as I look at this small child I have helped to create. Now and then he picks up a rock which he throws in to watch the water splash up. This pleases him immensely, and he laughs gaily at the sight and sound of it. He finds a stick of driftwood shaped strangely like some small withered dwarf and holds it out to me. "Mother, see this funny man." Then he gurgles happily as he casts it into the water for a boat, and we watch it float quietly out of sight. Now, with the restlessness of youth, he starts to run along the river's bank. He looks back at me laughing mischievously. The sun shines on his happy face as he calls to me, "Come on, Mother, let's run." How can I resist his vigorous youth and energy— his desire to explore this big, interesting world which just now is begimning to challenge him? He runs along the narrow, crooked paths through the willows at the river's edge. I hurry after my son, wondering at the swiftness with which he moves, and the energy he expends as he darts from one path to another. Suddenly he stops short and listens. I hear the trilling of a bird in a tree not far away. As I look lovingly into my son's upturned face and see the wonder and delight there, my soul is filled with gratitude for this small being, and that we can enjoy so much the same things in the same way. Can it be lasting and real — this closeness I feel with my son? In this busy world where we live, I suddenly sense the importance of taking this precious hour to spend with him — just the two of us alone. There is a great urgency in the knowledge that I must bring him often. For it is here by ourselves that we have this companionship that forms a bridge of understanding between us. Page 365 She Wrst German MNlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian "THE First Presidency announced, on December 2, 1937, the formation of a new mission—the West German—with Philemon M. Kelly as president. President Kelly, who had been presiding over the East German Mission, with headquarters in Berlin, moved to Frankfort am Main during the first week of January 1938, and began to organize the new mission. Elder Sanford M. Bingham was chosen as the secretary of the West German Mission, and Fred William Babbel as secretary to the mission president. The new mission embraced the following districts: Bielefeld, Bremen, Frankfort, Hamburg, Hannover, Karlsruhe, Munich, Nuremberg, Ruhr, and Stuttgart. President Kelly was released as president of the West German Mission in June 1938, and was succeeded by M. Douglas Wood. President Wood and the missionaries were prospering in their work when the great World War II broke out in fury in September 1939. The First Presidency promptly ordered all Latter-day Saint missionaries, who were not citizens of Germany, to leave Germany and gather in Holland or Denmark. This order was carried out, and the American missionaries were soon returned to Dolf Stages Dusseldorf Submitted by Bernice O. Dyer AFTERNOON STROLL ALONG THE RHINE RIVER, DUSSELDORF, GERMANY Page 366 THE WEST GERMAN MISSION 367 Josef Muedi h VILLAGE, OF TODTNAU IN THE BLACK FOREST, GERMANY the United States. The West German Mission was left to the care of local brethren, who were directed during the war by Thomas E. McKay from the Church headquarters in Salt Lake City. For a number of years the great war engulfed Europe, then, on the 2d of November, 1946, it was announced in the Church Section of the Deseret News that a new mission president had been appointed for the West German Mission: "For the first time in more than seven years, the West German Mission, with headquarters in Frankfort, will have a president assigned from the stakes of Zion. He is Bishop Jean Wunderlich of the Las Flores Ward of Pasadena Stake." President Wunderlich presided over the West German Mission until October 1950, when he was succeeded by Edwin Q. Cannon; President Cannon was succeeded in December 1953 by Kenneth B. Dyer; President Dyer was succeeded in July 1957 by Theodore M. Burton, who presides at the present time. On December 31, 1957, there were 5,827 members of the Church in the West German Mission, located in 58 branches. Seventy-one Relief Society organizations, with 869 members, were reported in December 1957. Minnie Susan P. Burton presides over the West German Mission Relief Society. Note: The Cover for this Magazine, A View in Rothenburg, West Germany, was submitted by Bernice O. Dyer, former president of the West German Mission Relief Society. See also, "Recipes From the West German Mission," by Sister Dyer, ae' 379: Without Doubt Deone R. Sutherland LAINE stood beside the dining-room window and clenched her fists. There was that — that — words failed her, that snoopy Mrs. Carlson prowling around their back yard in broad daylight. Elaine stepped behind the drape as Mrs. Carlson's eyes swept the back windows of the house before she cupped her hands against her eyes to peer into the Websters' garage. Why doesn't she just open the door and be done with it? Elaine thought, indignantly. As if in answer to her unspoken thought, the elderly woman opened the side garage door and peered in. Elaine had put up with the inquisitiveness of her neighbor ever since they had moved on Monroe Avenue six months ago. She really loved the house and the lovely gardens and the nice lawns. They had dreamed of living here forever, but Mrs. Carlson was making it impossible. Elaine had tried to be nice, but every casual conversation contained a bit of advice from Mrs, Carlson to the Webster family. It was true they might have had trouble from that one drainpipe if Mrs. Carlson hadn't told them about it, and they were glad they had taken up the bulbs on the side of the house they had overlooked. But Elaine began to wish fervently that Mrs. Carlson would let them discover just one thing for themselves. Suppose it was true that she took more pains to provide happy activity for Jimmy and Chris so she wouldn't have to hear Mrs. Carlson's, "I heard Chris crying this morning..." while Page 368 Elaine had to account for everything. Well, she was tired of it. Elaine went swiftly to the back door and out into the yard. Mrs. Carlson gave a little jump and shut the garage door quickly. At least she had the decency to look flustered, Elaine thought. "Hello, dear. It was a cat. I thought I heard your kitten meowing. I thought maybe he'd got stuck or locked up somewhere and couldn't get out. Didn't you hear it?" "No, I didn't," Elaine said grimly, "put [ll be happy to help you find it." "Perhaps I was mistaken." 'The older woman smoothed at her gray hair while her eyes noted the sandbox, the clothesline, the frame holding the raspberry vines. Again she avoided Elaine's eyes as she hurried back to the gate that led out of the Webster yard into her own. Elaine shook her head. She was silly to get so upset, but weren't their rights being infringed upon? It was dusk, and time to turn on the lights. The smell of dinner cooking came deliciously from the kitchen. Elaine began pulling the blinds reluctantly. "Mrs. Carlson don't pull her blinds," Jimmy commented casually. "Doesn't,' Elaine corrected, and then she added crossly, "she doesn't, but we do." Mrs. Carlson had mentioned herself to Elaine that she never bothered to close a blind on her side of the house. As if she wanted Elaine to leave hers up also. Elaine peeked at the roast. It was perfect. As if WITHOUT DOUBT by magic, the placing of the roast on the platter brought Dick from upstairs where he'd been washing up for dinner. He carried Chris on his back. Elaine didn't bother to pull her blinds in the kitchen because she didn't care if Mrs. Carlson wanted to inspect her while she washed the dishes, but she was going to have a little privacy in the rest of the house. She could see Mrs. Carlson moving back and forth between her kitchen and dining room. One of her sons must be coming to dinner if she was going to eat in there. It was too bad just having sons. 'They didn't seem to come home to visit as often as daughters. FTER dinner, Elaine told Dick about Mrs. Carlson snooping around the back yard. "Maybe she really did hear a cat in distress," Dick said calmly. "She seems to love pets, and it might have worried her." "That wasn't it at all. I could tell she was just over inspecting things to make sure we weren't letting the property run down or something." "Say, what kind of dining room furniture does Mrs. Carlson have?" "It's that light oak, really pretty. The sideboard is very nice for an old-fashioned one. She does have good taste in her wallpaper, and the drapes...." Elaine stopped. Dick was roaring with laughter as he pointed an accusing finger at Elaine. 'The red slowly mounted her cheeks. "Well, how could I help seeing? She leaves all her blinds up she began lamely, and then she, too, had to join in the contagious laughter. 369 Early the next morning, Elaine packed changes of clothes for the children and plenty of diapers for Chris and spent the day at her mother's. Dick left them on_ his way to work and picked them up that evening on his way home. It was a lovely day, and Elaine used her mother's sewing machine and finished a pair of trousers for Jimmy. While Elaine sewed, her mother took the two boys to the neighbors' homes on both sides to show off her grandchildren to ker old friends. Why couldn't we have been lucky enough to get neighbors like that? Elaine thought to herself as her mother brought the children proudly home and repeated many of the compliments her friends had given the boys. Elaine and the boys slept late the next morning. [Even a short trip like the one to her mother's was tiring, but by mid-morning she had the children out in the fenced-in yard to play. She put Chris in his playpen in the middle of the yard. She had scarcely hurried into the house to get at the kitchen, when she saw Mrs. Carlson out at the fence talking to Jimmy. Ne doubt she was pumping him for information about every move they made, Elaine thought grimly. When she brought Chris in for his morning nap, Jimmy followed for a drink of juice. "What did Mrs. Carlson ask you this morning, Jimmy?" Elaine put two graham crackers beside his juice. "T forgot," Jimmy said gulping his juice. "Did she ask you where we went yesterday?" Elaine frowned at him. He could be uncommunicative when he wanted to be. But he had talked a blue streak to Mrs. Carlson. 370 "We went to Grandma's yesterday," Jimmy commented agreeably. "Mrs. Carlson said it was quiet with us gone." JNDIGNATION made Elaine stand up straight. Now she was criticizing how much noise they made. Elaine cleaned the house furiously the rest of the morning. After lunch she read stories to the children until it was time for both their naps. 'Then she put them down in their cribs and carried the wastepaper baskets out of the bedrooms into the one by the hall. She would have to make two trips because she wanted to put the two blankets to be washed in the hamper in the laundry room. She took the blankets first and then propped the back screen door open. Leaving the door open wouldn't matter for the few minutes it would take to bring down the baskets to be emptied into the garbage. 'The wrapping paper and debris overfilled the bathroom basket so she put her foot determinedly into the basket to push everything down and make room. There was a sharp burn of pain, and Elaine pulled back her leg quickly. What could have cut her like that? She watched almost in wonder as the blood reddened into rivers down her leg. One of Dick's razor blades it was. How could she have done such a foolish thing to herself? Of course, it was an old razor blade he had thrown into the basket. The cold washcloth she had snatched up quickly turned to red in her hands. One of the larger veins in her leg had been cut. She tore two or three inches from the edge of a towel with a strength she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 didn't know she possessed and made a tourniquet for her leg. "T'm not so bad in an emergency," she said to herself just as the room began to swim and she slipped to the floor. She steadied herself against the side of the bathtub. How cool the white tub was against her face. She remained seated on the floor. She dared not risk standing up again. She might faint. She had succeeded in stopping the flow of blood, but she was beginning to feel a throb of pain from the cut and an ache in her hands from clenching the tourniquet. For the first time she began to realize her predicament. What was she to do? She couldn't remain in such a position until Dick came home. 'That was hours away. And if she tried to walk suppose she fainted and.... She must wake the children. If she could awaken Jimmy, he could run to Mrs. Carlson's for help. "Jimmy, sweetheart. Mother needs you. Jimmy, Jimmy...." But there was no response from Jimmy. The bedroom door was closed, and he had just gone off to sleep, tired from a morning's hard play in the back yard. BLAINE rested again against the tub and closed her eyes against the shadows that seemed ready to whirl her away at any moment. She must not get hysterical. She would call to Jimmy again. She would conserve her strength again and call as loudly as possible. "Elaine? Elaine, are you here?" "Mrs. Carlson, come up and help me. Mrs. Carlson!" She must not leave. Had she heard her? "I'm up here. I've done such a stupid thing to myself." She waited until she WITHOUT DOUBT was sure Mrs. Carlson was really there before she gave way to a few frightened tears. "It was your back door," Mrs. Carlson explained apologetically on the way home from the emergency room at the hospital. "I noticed it ajar and felt it was such a shame to leave it open that way in case a fly or something came along. But I really didn't feel I ought to say anything. I was afraid you were beginning to think I was a meddlesome old woman...." "No, you're not," weakly. "I'll never think so... And she added to herself under her breath, "again." "T said to myself, 'I won't go over there. She's got some reason for leaving that door that way, if she wants to, and I won't go over.' But it seemed so odd to me. I hope you don't think I'm always interfering." Elaine felt the color rise in her cheeks. She had thought worse than that. Mrs. Myers was still sitting with the children when they returned. Mrs. Carlson had taken complete command of the situation, and had telephoned Mrs. Myers, asking her to come and stay with the children. In a matter of minutes they had been on their way to the hospital. Everything would be all right, Mrs. Carlson had assured her. She had known that it would be, too. She had nothing more to worry about. "I guess being lonesome for my own grandchildren, and not having Charles any more makes me take too much notice of my neighbors sometimes. Maybe it makes me a nuisance." Elaine said? 371 Elaine remembered saying something to Mrs. Myers down the street once about her inquisitive neighbor. Mrs. Myers had responded drily, "It's good to have an 'inquisitive' neighbor when you need one. Elaine's mother came and spent the next two days. Elaine felt it was unnecessary, but Dick and her mother insisted. After all, an accident like that was not only painful, but also was something of a shock as well. It wouldn't hurt for Elaine to take it slowly for a day or so. Elaine rested on her bed and listened to her mother and Mrs. Carlson discuss from the back yards their roof that needed repairs, the children, the kitten, the flowers, and the lovely weather. She closed her eyes as their voices floated up to her open window. With her eyes shut it was difficult to distinguish one voice from the other almost. She opened her eyes with a start. Of course, they were alike. They were really interested in the welfare of other people. Perhaps that was the secret of growing up to be like the gracious friend and neighbor her mother was. She had always wanted to be like her mother, hadn't she? Well, her mother was like Mrs. Guilson, genuinely interested in other people. 'The trouble was she hadn't been interested enough in Mrs. Carlson. She felt herself relaxing back against the soft pillows. She felt wonderfully lighthearted. There were ways she would be able to be a neighbor to Mrs. Carlson. She felt as though she had rid herself of a heavy load. Friendship was so much more uncomplicated. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: President Horne of Salt Lake Stake said, "If you cannot store aoe you can save a few cans of flour, it has been proven it will keep twenty years...."" Counselor Luna Thatcher of Cache Stake said, "We have had advice in regard to our younger sisters and we feel that there has been quite a revival in the work of the Society in our Stake...." President Haight of Cassia Stake felt great timidity mingled with pleasure. 'Last summer we visited all around, twelve hundred miles through the vales and over the hills...." Sister Mary Bell Heywood of Panguitch was glad to see so many dear ones.... ""We have between seven and eight hundred bushels of wheat in our Stake...." —E. B. Wells, Sec. WOMEN IN ART: Rosa Bonheur is over seventy-nine years old. She is as active as ever, and still spends five hours a day perched upon the substantial ladder which has become the most historically valuable object in her studio. With its help all her most famous work has been achieved, from "The Horse Fair" to the picture which she justly considers her magnum opus, "Horses Threshing Out the Corn." —Ex. CHILDHOOD Lightly, smoothly, speed along, Quickly as the agile fawn, Leaving naught behind whereon There can smile another dawn.... Forest whispers nevermore Breathe the song they did before; Childhood dreams for thee are o'er, Woman's scepter's at your door. —Hyacinth GROWTH OF RELIEF SOCIETY: We are pleased to inform our readers that very recently new branches of the National Woman's Relief Socicty have been organized in Denver and Colorado Springs, and that Apostle John W. Taylor expects to organize one in Grand Junction in the same state very soon. We received word today of a branch just organized in San Diego, California. —News Note JULIA WARD HOWE: Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, on one occasion, presented herself at a club of which she is a member with her bonnet wrong side in front. After some hesitation lest Mrs. Howe should feel hurt, a sister member informed her of the mistake. "What a blow to my vanity!"' said Mrs. Howe with an amused smile. "I thought I was receiving an unusual amount of attention as I came down town on the car, but attributed it solely to my own attractions." —News Note A COLORADO WOMAN: _ The state superintendent of schools is a woman, and no office in the state house is conducted with more ability. Half the county superintendents of Colorado are of the same sex. —Special Report Page 372 RS. RUTH MAY FOX, who was Utah's oldest citizen, died April 12, 1958, at the age of 104. She has 290 living descendants, She was a member of the general presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association for thirty years, and when seventy-five years old became president of that organization. A natural leader, she was a woman of many talents especially in the fields of writing, speaking, and homemaking. She was the author of the words of that stirring song, "Carry On." She was a spiritual, inspirational, practical, and delightfully witty person, greatly admired and loved, MB. ELSIE RICHARDS KOHLER (Mrs. Albert F. Kohler) of Midway, Utah's Mother of the Year, is the mother of twelve children and foster mother to another "son," and through the years has been active in Church, civic, and intellectual life. She was a4 Relief Society officer and teacher for thirty-five years. As a girl, she earned her education money by baby sitting and helping busy mothers. Her children are highly educated and are outstanding in various fields all useful to humanity. Mrs. Fern Lewis Brockbank of Spanish Fork, an outstanding mother, Church worker, and community leader, was named alternate Mother. Woman's Sphere Ramona W.. Cannon P RINCESS MARGRETHE ALEXANDRINE TORHILDUR INGRID (familiarly called "Daisy"), daughter of Frederik IX, and heir to the Danish throne, became eighteen years old in April, 1958. At Christiansborg Palace, she was formally introduced to the Council of State and signed an oath to uphold the Danish Constitution. She received the designation "Tronfolger," future Queen. MBs. ANNIE SCHENK HUM. PHREY, ninety-two, former World War I army nurse and later an assistant national director of the American Red Cross Nursing Services, died in February 1958 in the Veterans Hospital at Perry Point, Maryland, and was buried in Atlington National Cemetery. FPA FERBER, popular as an American novelist for several gencrations, has written a new novel, Ice Palace about Alaska and people living there. AME EDITH SITWELL, Great Britain's distinguished poet, has given some moving readings of her own and other poets' work and has given some enlightening and _incisive comments on poetry over the National Education Television Network, a rare treat to the countless listeners, Page. 373 CO— > EDITORIAL cm~9O VOL. 45 JUNE 1958 NO. 6 She 128th » Church Conference HE 128 Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the historic 'Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, April 4, 5, and 6, 1958, with President David O. McKay conducting all of the general sessions, and with all of the General Authorities in attendance. Elder Harold B. Lee, of the Council of the Twelve, delivered the "Church of the Air' address on the subject "Courage to Face Life's Inevitables Through Faith in a Redeemer." Music was furnished on Friday by the combmed choruses of Brigham Young University, on Saturday by a chorus from Utah State University and the Logan Institute of Religion, and on Sunday by the Tabernacle Choir. In addition to the thousands congregated in the 'Tabernacle and in the Assembly Hall on 'Temple Square, many others were privileged to hear the proceedings by radio and to hear and see the sessions by television. Proceedings of the general Priesthood session on Saturday evening were heard by 45,154 bearers of the Priesthood. 'This number includes all those assembled in the Tabernacle and those who listened to this session over closed circuits. Themes for the conference, as summarized by President McKay in his concluding address on Sunday afternoon, were: "True spirituality should be expressed in daily activity," and "... Salvation and peace, contentment of the human family, not only in the home but in the Page 374 community life, will come through obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ." Four new appointments to the General Authorities of the Church were made, and a new Superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association was announced: Elder Hugh B. Brown was named a member of the Council of the Twelve; Elders Gordon B. Hinckley and Henry D. Taylor were appointed Assistants to the Council of the Twelve; Elder A. Theodore Tuttle was appointed to the First Council of Seventy; and Joseph T. Bentley was named Superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, to take office after the 1958 June Conference. N his opening address on Friday, Apmil 4th, President McKay said that fifty years had passed since he stood in the Tabernacle for the first time as one of the General Authorities. He spoke of the 31,817 converts to the Church during the past year, and expressed appreciation for the untiring efforts of the missionaries throughout the world. Our beloved President emphasized the urgent need for a spiritual awakening: Man is making great progress in science and invention... But is not making comparable progress in character and _ spirituality.... Spirituality, our true aim, is the consciousness of victory over self, and of communion with the Infinite. Spirituality impels one to conquer difficulties and acquire more and more strength. 'To feel one's faculties unfolding, and truth ex- EDITORIAL Panding in the soul. Is one of life's sublimest experiences,.. - Christ asked us to develop the spiritual within us.... Spiritual awakening in the hearts of millions of men and women would bring about a changed world. | am hopeful... That the dawning of that day is not far distant. I am conscious, as | hope all of you are, that the responsibility to try to bring about such 4 day rests upon the Priesthood of the Church of Jesus Christ and upon the membership, and upon husbands and wives, and upon children in Mormon homes,..; PRESIDENT Stephen L Richards, on Sunday, April 6th, spoke of the necessity to "Put Father Back at the Head of the Family." He said that the Church for generations had endeavored to "put and keep father at the head of the family," We define a home as being a divinely appointed institution established on the enduring compact of a good man and a g00d woman, wherein spiritual children of our Eternal Father are permitted to re-, these children so received in the home to be nurtured in health and so guided in the ways of living by loving and Wise parents that they may be conditioned on completion of their lives to return to the presence of the Lord whence their spirits originally came. In. This greatest of all enterprises 'the man and the woman are partners... Of the enduring compact which binds them together..., We call the ordinance of matriage when performed not only for time but for all eternity a sealing—a sealing of a good Woman to a good man of the Priesthood, with the express understanding and cove. Nant that the Priesthood of the man, if he shall be faithful and live worthy to enjoy it, shall be the supreme authority of the household.... NP an eloquent Easter address, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Tecounted the sacred events, begin- 375 ning with the Last Supper, and describing the death and resurrection of Jesus. President Clark spoke of the faithful women and their part in the scriptural Narrative of this transcendent event in which Jesus became "the true sacrifice for the Fall, ordained from the beginning of the world and before." - +. The day that he was buried was the day fixed under the Mosaic law for the gathering of the first Sheaf of the harvest, and.. - While the women who were seated near the sepulchre returned, sorrowful, to their homes in the darkness, for their light had gone out, another group from across the Kedron returned joyously, carrying the sheaf, the first sheaf of the harvest..., President Clark spoke also of "the voice in America" which was heard all over the land, and which declared: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God." Then, in Jerusalem, came the glory of the resurrection, for "an angel of the Lord will come down and toll back the stone that closed the Sepulchre," In bearing his testimony at the close of his address, President Clark said: He is the way, he is the life, he is the truth, he is the light. That is the Message Which comes to us, and may God give to each of us the power to follow him, to live in his light, tread his way, observe his truths... In their conference addresses, all of the General Authorities urged the members of the Church to live according to the saving principles of the restored gospel. "It has been the season of Easter, and every speaker has referred to the salvation, glorified life, the eternal gospel of the resurrected Christ." —V. P. G Jn Mlemortam—Ruth Mlay Sox HE General Board of Relief Society pays a tribute of love and appreciation to the memory of Ruth May (Harding) Fox, in the remarkable accomplishments of this beloved daughter of Zion. She was born November 16, 1853, in Westbury, Wilshire, England, and died April 2, 1958, in Salt Lake City, far away from the land of her birth. Her days upon the earth numbered more than a century, and her life was a dedication to everlasting values—her home and family, the Church, and services to individuals and organizations where there was need for her understanding heart and her willing hands. She crossed the plains in 1867 by ox-team and thus entered the valleys of the mountains when she was only fourteen. 'Three years later she became a Sunday School teacher and thereafter she served faithfully in the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church, becoming General President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in 1929, when she was seventy-five years old. For twenty-five years she served as a missionary on Temple Square, where her unusual gift for the speech arts illuminated her deep and abiding testimony of the gospel. Ruth May Fox tenderly nurtured twelve children and exemplified true motherhood and sisterhood. Her voice was lifted for the betterment of women everywhere. She is remembered for her devoted work in the National Council of Women and for her able and inspirational direction of the lives of thousands of young women who have become leaders in Relief Society and in all the women's auxiliary organizations of the Church. Her life has touched the lives of many who will long remember her and call her blessed. Notes TO THE FIELD Program for the November Fast Sunday &vening Mleeting HE special program for Sunday, November 2, 1958, "Reverence for the Gospel Light," was mailed to Relief Society stake presidents in May 1958. We urge that these programs be distributed to the wards without delay. Page 376 NOTES TO THE FIELD 377 Hymn of the Mlonth—Annual List July 1955 to June 1959 ue Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committec, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymm repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union mectings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed cach month in the Church Section of the Deseret News. Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months July 1958 to June 1959: 1958 No. July The Glorious Gospel Light Has Shone Jounson-RoBERTSON 45 August Hail to the Brightness of Zion's Glad Morning Hasrincs-Parry 182 September "Tis Sweet to Sing the Matchless Love Manwarinc-ASPER 187 October Praise the Lord With Heart and Voice CANNON-CANNON 149 November We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet FowLer-Norton 196 December It Came Upon the Midnight Clear SEARSWILLIS 82 M59 January While of These Emblems NICHOLSON-SCHREINER = 217 February There's Sunshine in My Soul Today Hewitt-SwreNey 174 March He Is Risen ALEXANDER-NEANDER 61 Apmil With All the Power of Heart and Tongue Warrs-DuruamM 216 May To Nephi, Seer of Olden Time 'TOWNSEND-CLAYTON 186 June We Give Thee But Thine Own How-Laupis 180 & rratum El] Paso Stake and Juarez Stake Percentages, Magazine Honor Roll Percentages for 1957. Attention is called to the correct figures for these reports: Relief Society ment No. Pet. EnrollSubscriptions Magazine Representative El Paso Juarez 353 324 «92 93 96 103 Lola P. Wiley Fannie B. Hatch "Young len Shall See Visions... 7 "Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light" (Psalms 48:3). RULY in this time of rapidly advancing knowledge, the wonders of the universe are being made known, and men of earth are learning further wonders of the nearest stars and planets. And those who approach learning and scientific endeavor with a reverent and humble attitude acknowledge the Heavenly Father as the Lord of the universe, for the farthest galaxies are known and numbered unto him; they are also his realm and his dominion. Many who search for truth realize that control of the earthly elements and knowledge of the stars and inter-stellar spaces will avail them little, if men do not speedily master the ancient truths — the elemental laws of living long ago given to men upon the earth. The Ten Commandments, the Sermon on the Mount, the invincible truths of modern scripture have not been taken from us. 'They are among us still as guide and testament. 'Their everlasting integrity and their living promise have not been lost even though many have not followed the commandments. I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and offspring of David, and the bright and morning star (Revelations 22:16). We must all learn the require ments of liberty of thought, free agency, justice, and love and conBe Honest with Yourself sideration for our fellow men. If we cannot master the fundamental requirements of life together, then our tenure upon the earth will be limited, and our mastery of tools and complicated machines will avail us little. It is still implicit in the relationships of God's children upon the earth that only disorder and ultimate chaos can come to them unless they learn to obey the law. This concept of human behavior is still the greatest challenge to the everreaching mind of youth, the supreme test of accomplishment. Let us not forget that the realms of the mind and the spirit are wide and wonderful; they challenge us to highest endeavor. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 378 Recipes From the West German MNlission Submitted by Bernice O. Dyer Rep CABBAGE 1 large, firm head red cabbage 2 tbsp. Shortening 2 apples (peeled) pinch of sugar 1 tbsp. Vinegar pinch of salt lemon juice boiling water Clean cabbage, cut into coarse pieces, combine with apples which have been diced (not too small), and cover with boiling water. Add salt, sugar, shortening, and vinegar, and cook slowly for two hours. Lemon juice will improve the flavor. (German housewives claim that red cabbage must be cooked for two hours, in order to make it easily digestible. ) P¥FANNEKUCHEN 3% c. Flour % c. Sugar 1 cake yeast 1 pinch salt % c. Milk (perhaps one or two 2 eggs tbsp. More, if needed) % c. Butter or other shortening sugar for finished Pfannekuchen Combine milk and yeast and allow to rise in a warm place for half an hour. Add all other ingredients and stir thoroughly until a soft bubbly dough is formed. Cover with a cloth and allow it to rise until double in bulk. Roll dough out about three-fourths of an inch thick, and cut with any size cookie cutter. Place a teasoonful of jam in center and cover with another piece of dough rolled very thin. Allow jam-filled dough to rise until double in bulk, then deep fry in hot fat until golden brown on both sides. Drain well and roll in sugar. Makes from 10 to 12 Pfannekuchen. Pfannekuchen are a favorite all over Germany, but they are especially famous in the Rhineland. Yeast APPLECAKE WITH BUTTERCRUMBLES 6% c. Flour 2 yeast cakes % c. Butter or shortening 1 lemon rind (grated) 2 c. Milk (plus three tbsp., if needed) 1 tsp. Sugar apples to taste Let yeast, a little of the milk (warmed), sugar, and a little flour rise together for a short time. Warm the rest of the flour in the oven. Combine melted butter, balance of milk, sugar, and grated lemon rind, and flour, with the veast mixture, and knead into a firm dough. Cover and allow to rise in a warm place until double in bulk. Roll out the dough until it fits a large size baking tin (like a cookie sheet). Cover with apples, about an inch deep, or to taste, and spread the butter crumbles over the top of all. Bake at moderate temperature for about thirty minutes. If desired, the apple cake may be allowed to rise for a short time before baking. Other fruits may be substituted. Butter crumble recipe follows. Butter CRUMBLES 1 c. Butter 1% c. Flour % c. Sugar Mix ingredients. Rub between the hands until little, dry lumps are formed. Page 379 Accidents: She Greatest Shreat to Our Children Alan K. Done, M. D. Department of Pediatrics, University of Utah College of Medicine Prepared for the Salt Lake Safety Council ORE children die from accidents than from the six most deadly diseases combined! And year by year the accident threat becomes greater, relatively speaking, because the death rate from disease is diminishing three times as rapidly as the death rate from accidents. In the United States this year, over 10,000 children will die, and 40,000 to 50,000 will be permanently crippled by accidents. Parents can't be expected to foresee all of the numerous and soimetimes subtle dangers which threaten children. Nothing short of continual watching or complete immobilization will insure absolutely that a child will not have an accident; and, obviously, neither is desirable. <A child should be allowed to develop as a self-sufficient individual, and certainly cannot do this without suffering a few bumps and _ bruises (both physically and mentally) along the way. The most logical approach to the problem is through (1) an understanding of the child himself, and why he is accident prone, and (2) a knowledge of the types of accidents which pose the greatest threat to the child, and the ways in which these accidents occur. The Child and His Ways A fear of (or respect for) anything, with the possible exception of loud noises, comes about through Page 380 experience and learning, and_ this takes time. In other words, a child is not born with the instinctive knowledge that fire will burn, automobiles will crush, or water will drown him. On top of this, he has an insatiable curiosity which insures that he will taste everything within reach, climb into or upon every accessible structure, and will reach into every closet, cupboard, or piece of machinery available. Obviously, the degree to which the very young ae can be taught to protect himself is quite limited. Not that attempts to teach him should not be made. On the contrary, when the child reaches the age of five or six and is away at school most of the time, he will be dependent for protection almost entirely upon what we have been able to teach him about safety. Before the child is old enough to learn, he must be protected, utterly and completely protected. Some measures which can be taken to provide this protection will be enumerated as we consider accidents of different types. As the child becomes old enough to understand, an occasional well-timed "no-no" or tap on the hand (or seat) may properly be used to begin his education in self-preservation. It must be remembered, however, that the young child is incapable of understanding the implication of, or reasons for, such cautionings. Consequently, if there are too many of them, he simply becomes confused and litte will have been gained. Now, a final suggestion before discussing the accidents themselves: Don't rob your child of the educational value of his minor misadventures and injuries. 'The child best learns by expericnce, but if he is rewarded after having a minor accident, the educational value is largely lost. Let him associate hot things with the painful sensation of burning, not with cookies or kisses. 'The most common, serious accidents of children include motor vehicle accidents, falls, poisomugs, burns, drownings, and imjuries with sharp objects. Let us now consider the ways in which these accidents most commonly occur so that we may have additional ammunition with which to fight the battle of child safety. Automobile vs. Child Automobiles kill more children each year than any other single cause. The problem of automobile safety is too broad to cover here im its entirety, but let us consider those aspects of the problem which apply specifically and directly to the child. A large number of deaths and injuries to children result from their falling or being thrown either inside the car or to the outside through an accidentally opened door. A child standing on the back seat may be thrown to the floor, or one seated next to the driver may be thrown against the dashboard or windshield in the event of a sudden stop or collision. Most conventional car doors can be opened, even when "locked," simply by manipulation of the handle. Special locks can be obtained which can be opened from the driver's seat or safety catches can be installed in the rain gutter above the door. In licu of safety locks, it is possible simply to remove the inside handles of the rear doors so that they must be opened from the outside. Obviously seat-belts would be extremely desirable for the child who is old enough to use them. Many children are killed every year by automobiles backing from driveways. LE. Ven though one may look about to determine that the way is clear, the few minutes it takes to get into the car and start it moving is more than ample for a small child to sneak behind the car unscen. It is far safer to know where the child is than to think you know where he isn't. It is worth remembering that everyone is not going to be as concerned about your children as vou. A neighbor, delivery man, or visitor may not think to look about before driving away. The child playing behind, under, on or in front of his vehicle may not be seen by the unsuspecting driver until it is too late. A child's carelessly running in front of a moving automobile is much more difficult to prevent. However, if parents would start as early as possible to teach their children (both by words and example) pedestriansense and car-sense they will have taken a tremendous step towards preventing this and other types of accidents involving automobiles. Falls Occasional bumps and_ bruises from falls are part of the game of ACCIDENTS: THE GREATEST THREAT TO OUR CHILDREN 381 382 growing up. However, falls from heights or onto injurious surfaces or objects may result in serious injury. Windows without screens and stairways without gates invite trouble. So does leaving an infant alone and unstrapped in a_high-chair. When a child is "rough housing" or climbing on chairs or other objects, his potential landing field should be free from extraneous objects, and he should not be permitted to have sharp objects in his hand. Poisoning The majority of poisonings occur because someone has left a potentially toxic substance where it can be reached by an inquisitive child. Few parents realize that the majority of childhood deaths from poisoning are caused by such common household items as aspirin and other drugs, kerosene, cleaners, polishes, and insect powders. Burns Most parents would not permit a child to play with matches or near open flames. However, few are aware that the majority of preventable childhood burns are caused by hot liquids. This usually occurs in one of two ways: (1) the curious child tips the contents of a pan onto himself from the kitchen stove, or (2) the child left alone in the bathtub turns on the hot water. Drowning Children occasionally drown in bathtubs, either because they are too young to prevent themselves RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 from slipping under the surface of the water, or they fall and are knocked unconscious attempting to climb out of the tub. The peak incidence of drowning in the young child occurs in the one to two-year age group. 'This is due, in part at least, to the fact that people underestimate the amount of water necessary to drown one so small. No one would knowingly permit a toddler to play near a raging river, but many parents do not give a second thought to the foot-deep fish pond or itrigation ditch which may be equally deadly for a child of this age. Sharp Objects Until he is old enough to know how to use them safely, a child should not be allowed access to sharp objects, even for an instant. Knives left on the kitchen sink or scissors left on a table invite trouble. Scissors provided for the child to use in cutting paper should have _ rounded ends and blunt edges. Specific Child Safety Suggestions From the foregoing we should be able to derive a relatively limited list of specific suggestions which will avoid most of the common, dangerous childhood accidents: While riding in an automobile, a small child should stand behind your shoulder or against the dashboard or the back of the front seat. Special precautions should be taken to prevent car doors from being opened by children. When backing out of the driveway, have the children stand where you can see them. Small children should not be allowed to play around parked automobiles or trucks. 5 Teach your child pedestrian safety. Upstairs windows should be securely screened, and stairways should be protected by gates. When playing, a child should not have, in his hand or where he may fall, objects which could be injurious. Keep all medicines (including aspirin), kerosene, polishes, cleaners, pest killers, etc., under lock and key. Children should not be allowed to play near the stove, whether or not it is in use. Cooking utensils should be placed on the back burners of the stove, where possible, > and the handles should always be turned toward the back of the stove. A small child should never be left alone in the bathtub, even for an instant. Teach your child to swim, but teach him also the dangers of overconfidence. Where possible, all bodies of water, including small fish ponds, irrigation ditches, and swimming pools should be fenced or covered. A small child should never be allowed access to sharp instruments, even or an instant. Now, a closing word to those who do not have small children of their own: don't allow your home, yard, or garage to be a death trap for visiting youngsters! New Serial "Tlot to the Swift to Begin in July new serial, "Not to the Swift," by Deone R. Sutherland, will begin in the July issue of the Magazine. The story tells of the decision of Julie Markham, a lovely and gifted young woman, between a musical career and marriage. She carefully considers her future and chooses a path that leads to fulfillment. Mrs. Sutherland, the author, is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Many of her short stories have appeared in the Magazine, and three serials: "'Dear Conquest," "Green Willows," and ''Heart's Bounty." Mrs. Sutherland received the first prize award in the Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1957, for her entry "The Day We All Went to Rainbow Springs," published in the January 1958 Magazine. ><> Lullaby of Silence Maude Rubin This hour is banked with stillness. In the half-light Each cricket and cicada waits the stir Of night's baton to start the sleepy drumming— No lizard moves; no cactus-wren's wing-whir. An agate quiet wraps the canyon murmur Of aspen leaves in soundless listening. The desert cradles her wind-weary children With lullaby of silence... Hear it sing! ACCIDENTS: THE GREATEST THREAT TO OUR CHILDREN 383 Sweet Is the Faith of a Child Mabel Law Atkinson 66 can't wait till tomorrow, Mother. It's the best secret!" 'The eyes of six-yearold David were dancing. "What secret, my dear?" Elnora Anson looked lovingly at the sensitiveness of her small son's face as she asked the question. "Surely a little boy doesn't have secrets from his mother." "Oh, but I have! And it's been such fun keeping it a secret all this week. Six long days already! But youll know what it is tomorrow, if vou come to Junior Sunday School with me. Will you, Mother?" "Tl be glad to, David, and Daddy will, too, I'm sure." David gave a few happy little skips about the room, clapped his hands in front of him, then behind him and stood laughing happily as he chanted, "Tomorrow you'll know! 'Tomorrow you'll know! Miss Clifford said I could do it all by myself and I have. 'Tomorrow you'll know, Mother, in Sunday School." His mother kissed him tenderly then said, "But unless. Your new trousers come in today's mail, you won't be able to go to Sunday School." Seeing the startled look in his eves, she continued, "But they should be here, for I ordered them nearly two weeks ago." "Oh, Mother, I forgot. I wouldn't have given my Sunday trousers to Ronnie last Wednesday if I had thought my new ones wouldn't get here. I mean I would have waited a little longer to give them to him." "Ronnie looked very nice in your trousers. I'm sure his mother was Page 384 grateful, too. There goes the mailman now. In about fifteen minutes, Mrs. Martin will have the mail sorted so you may go to the post office." At the gate he turned and called to her, "You pray [Il get my new trousers, won't you, Mother?" Mrs. Anson hurried toward him as she answered, "But, Son, it's too late to pray about that now." "But God can do anything, Mother."" David's eyes held perfect trust as they looked into hers. "Listen, David. Suppose — the clerks in the mail-order house mailed our parcel just yesterday or even the day before. It couldn't possibly reach us today. Four days is the very shortest time it takes for a parcel to come that distance. Now do you understand what I mean by saying it is too late to pray about getting it today? Either it is at the post office now or it isn't. Do you see?" David stood pondering things for a while then said, "Yes, Mother, I see. God can do anything he needs to do, but of course he doesn't do things like bringing my trousers in a few minutes when it takes four days. I think he expects us to let the mail train bring them." "You are right, darling." Watching him running eagerly toward the post office, Mrs. Anson sent a silent prayer upward that his faith would remain whole and shining and not be shaken by circumstance. HEN David returned his disappointed eyes spoke before he SWEET IS THE FAITH OF A CHILD said slowly, "They didn't come, Mother. What shall I do?" She kissed his forehead and putting her arms about him, answered very, very gently, "I'm glad you love Sunday School, David, and if your trousers don't come this week, we'll go to town and buy you new ones. There won't be time today after Daddy gets here with the car. You'll only have to miss this once." "But I must go this time, Mother. When I promised my teacher I would give the two-and-one-half minute talk, she said, 'I know you are dependable, David. God is pleased with dependable boys.' And I wanted you to hear me, Mother." In his need of knowing what to do, he had revealed his secret. Before Mrs. Anson could suggest they let Miss Clifford know he would be unable to come, David said, "Heavenly Father couldn't get the parcel here for me today, but he can make me think what to do for tomorrow." It was not a question but a statement of truth. "I'm going to my room and pray now, and il tell you what we can do pretty soon.' A few minutes later he came to the door and spoke quietly, "I've prayed, Mother. Now I shall lie down and keep still as still and think hard." A half hour later when Mrs. Anson quietly entered his room to tell him his father was home and it was time for dinner, he was sound asleep. She tiptoed out so as not to disturb him. It was after dark when he awakened. He lay for a moment wondering, then thought out the answer to his prayer. Jumping from his bed, he knelt down and said quick- 385 ly, "Thank you Heavenly Father," then hurried into the living room where his mother sat reading. One look at the happy light in his eyes and she knew all was well with her little son. She waited for a moment and asked gently, "Tell me, David." "IT think Heavenly Father would like me to be dependable even if I have to wear overalls to Sunday School. So I shall wear my new overalls tomorrow." "But David," his mother began, then left the rest of her protest unsaid. Humbled, she drew him to her and held him close. "Tm proud of you, my son.' David turned quickly to see his father in the doorway. He had returned home from a village board meeting just in time to hear his son's words. HE next morning as David and his mother were walking to Sunday School, he said, "I may not look right on the outside in these overalls, but I feel right on the inside. 'There's daddy now waiting for us. I guess his Priesthood meeting is out." As they joined him on the lawn in front of the chapel steps, David continued, "Tl show you where to sit," and he took a hand of each. "Remember to go home with daddy, won't you, son, for I have a meeting after Sunday School, but it won't be too long." When they were singing the opening song, "Count Your Blessings," and reached the words, "See what God hath done," David, sitting on the stand, saw Ronnie enter wearing the trousers he had given him. He looked at his mother a few feet 386 in front of him in the audience and from his eyes flashed triumphant assurance as he smiled sweetly. A little later as she sat listening to him giving the talk he had prepared all by himself, telling in simple child-language how Heavenly Father had made the earth with the sun for the day and the moon and stars for the night; the hills to climb; the meadows where the little lambs and colts and calves could play; the flowers to make the air smell good and the world beautiful; the rivers to wade in and to water the land; the wheat to grow for our bread.... And that all he asks is for us to love him and do as he tells us... She offered up a prayer that she would never let appearance or false pride keep her from seeing the needs of her own or the soul of her son, and others of God's children. When she returned home after her meeting, David was at the gate to meet her. "Daddy is putting lunch on to please you," was his greeting. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 "What a thoughtful daddy!" she answered smiling. "You did very well, David. Your talk was wonderful. And to think you did it all by yourself! I am proud of you." "Daddy said he is, too. Aren't you glad I wore my overalls and went?" Without pausing for his mother to answer, he went on, © "Miss Clifford said we should wear our best clothes to enter Heavenly Father's house, but it was all right to wear overalls in an emergency. I knew it was all right to wear them last night, but I knew it even more when we were singing and I saw Ronnie come in." "Darling," Mrs. Anson said, as she kissed his upturned, radiant face, "You are a precious blessing God has given me. Now let's go in and thank daddy for trying to please 2 us. Hand in hand, the two went into the house to greet a smiling father who stood in the doorway, his arms open to receive them. + A Son Receives His Diploma Elsie McKinnon Strachan How tall he is, oh, suddenly how tall— The little paper boy, the chubby scout Who tracked mud on my floor, whose breathless call Came afternoons to tell me school was out. Is it the cap and gown which make him seem So newly strange, his face grown quiet, grave— Whose grin and freckles were the winning team Which won the weighed consent my answers gave? Is it the cap and gown or something more That stirs the roots of sadness in my breast, That brings a pride I had not known before While "Land of Hope and Glory" at its best Rings out in ageless song? This marching minute Now claims my son's strong hand—and my heart in it. You Can Geow— TV. Seams and Seam Finishes Jean Ridges Jennings seam is the means of joining two pieces of fabric. It is by the use of seams that most of our garments hang together. We also obtain many interesting lines, shapings, and trimmings with seams. Because they seem so easy to do, let's not take them too much for granted and neglect some of the little things that contribute to good seams. Before stitching any seams, test the machine stitch and tension on a sample piece of the fabric you are using. The correct size of needle and thread is always important for good machine stitching. 'Too heavy thread makes a stiff seam. 'Thread which is too fine will not hold. Seams must be stitched accurately and with perfect tension. Never use a needle that is blunt or bent. Be sure the bobbin is evenly wound and that bobbin thread and top thread are the same. The plain seam may be called the basic seam. With one or another of its variety of finishes, it may be used on nearly every type of fabric or garment. 'The seam finish you choose will be governed by the perfection of finish you want, the amount of time at your disposal, and the strain to which the seam will be subjected, both in wearing and laundering. Seam finishes are used chiefly to prevent raveling, but they have other functions, too: to improve the inside appearance of a garment; to cover raw edges that are uncomfortable next to the skin; in sheer garments, to make the seam allowance inconspicuous from the right side. The plain seam is made by laying two edges together, one over the other, with right sides of the material facing each other. Pin or baste along the seam line, then stitch. After pins or bastings are removed, press the seam open. Finish the seam edges according to the following instructions, using the method best suited to the fabric: 1. Pinked Seam—Good for fabrics which do not fray easily. 'Trim a plain seam with pinking shears, being careful just to nick the edge in order to preserve the full seam allowance. On heavy fabrics which have some tendency to fray, pink and then machine stitch close to the pinked edge. 2. Overcast Seam—Stronger than the pinked seam; useful for finishing all kinds of edges, especially when fabrics are too heavy for other finish. Zig-zag sewing machine stitching over the edge makes a fine, firm finish. When done by hand, trim the edge and finish with slanting stitches over the cut edges about % inch apart. Seams at armhole and waistline are overcast together. 3. Turned and Stitched Seam—A very serviceable and durable seam for light or medium-weight materials that fray. 'Turn under the raw edge of seams '%-inch and stitch evenly close to the fold. 4. Bound Seam—Recommended for unlined coats, jackets, or robes. Press a fold slightly to one side of the center of rayon seam tape and baste over raw edges of seams. Have wider side underneath. Stitch close to edge of binding. One stitching catches top and bottom. 5. Hemmed Felled Seam—Used as a finish for light-weight fabrics, such as Page 387 .388 PINKED SEAM ieeenaee PINKED AND STITCHED SEAM VVVVVUT TVA VAN AAA VAAL ALANA OVERCAST SEAM TURNED AND STITCHED SEAM nainsook, batiste, and organdie. 'This is very good to finish seams at waistlines, yokes, and tops of ruffles. One edge of the seam is trimmed narrow. 'The other edge is turned down and folded over to meet the line of stitching. Hem down by hand. In addition to the above basic seam finishes, mention should be made of two special purpose seams which are extensively used where a stronger, more durable, method ls needed. Such garments as_ children's clothes, undergarments, and active sportswear are subjected to added strains in wearing and constant laundering. For these a plain seam is usually not adequate. 'The following two seams will serve many useful purposes: 1, French Seam—-A seam within a seam, especiall adapted for long straight RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 BOUND SEAM FLAT FELLED SEAM FRENCH SEAM ateaestrersetine —ses eee HEMMED FELLED SEAM seams on sheer or light-weight fabrics that need frequent launderings, such as lingerie, baby clothes, and girls' dresses. First, make a plain seam on the right side, with wrong sides together, taking less than 14 of the seam allowance. 'Trim raw edges evenly. Press well and turn, bringing right sides of material together. Crease on the line of previous stitching. Press and stitch again beyond the raw encased edges. The more sheer the fabric being used, the narrower the seam should be. 2. Flat Felled Seam—A strong tailored seam for play and sport clothes, men's shirts and pajamas, and women's tailored blouses. Pin or baste seam from the right side and stitch. Press to one side. 'Trim away underneath to within % inch or the same line. 'Turn other edge under % inch and pin flat so that raw edge is covered. Stitch. Take care to have the two rows of stitching always an even distance apart. In addition to these functional seams, there are numerous variations which come in the class of decorative seams. Space does not permit a discussion of these, but we suggest that home sewers become acquainted with them in the pages of a good sewing manual. My House Vesta Ball Ward I love my house And the work it gives to me, The dear tasks of bringing Ordered dignity to room and hall Where the shadow and the whisper Of my loved ones dwell. I love the banishing of dust, The corners square and clean, The windows clear As the promise of my future days. I love the small task Of mending tears and rips, Seeing again the joy, Hearing the swift shout and rush Of happy, running feet. I love the clothes clean and sweet again, Smelling of the sun and wind, Folded in quiet order to await More joyous play. I love my dishes stacked neatly row on row, Order marching gleaming from the Chaos of the morning meal— Sitting solemnly, waiting for the Renewed communal pleasure They soon will bring again. I love my house And all the work it gives to me That my soul might grow With discipline and tempered grace. YOU CAN SEW — IV. SEAMS AND SEAM FINISHES 389 Lucinda B. Blair Makes Stoles in the Star Stitch UCINDA Brower Bair of Richmond, Utah, has made more than fifty beautiful woolen stoles in the star stitch. She is able to do this exquisite handwork, at the age of eighty-nine without the use of glasses. The wool yarn which she uses has a rayon thread running through it to give the finished stoles a lustrous accent. The stoles are made both in white and in colors. Mrs. Bair has also made many quilts and excels in various types of handwork. She has been a Relief Society teacher for twentyfive years and throughout her long life she has faithfully served the sick and needy in her community. She is the mother of eleven children, seven of whom are living. Her grandchildren number forty-one, and her great-grandchildren sixty-six, She has two great-great-grandchildren, Bl ueprint Pansye H. Powell Who works with love will build a house of stone, Footed on solid rock and sturdy beamed, Will find the plan his love has patterned grown Lovelier far than he has ever dreamed. Page 390 Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Carol Wilson. An artist on the staff of a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, went to a ranch in Wyoming to attend the funeral of her sister Elizabeth. She felt a deep sympathy for the motherless children, and later, after her return to her work, she decided to return to the children. However. She found them well cared for. Fred, Carol's brother-in-law, had become interested in a kindly neighbor, Dolly Graham, and Dolly's brother Tony declared his love for Carol. Brent Gibson telephoned, asking Carol to return to the city to make the illustrations for a serial story. After this work was completed, Carol went back to Wyoming for a vacation. 66 H, how good it is to be back!" Carol cried ecstatically, throwing her arms wide and lifting her face to the serene majesty of the Tetons. Tony Muir's bright, clear young laughter rang out happily. "This is where you belong, Carol. Those who love the mountains should never leave them." "Oh, I don't know, Tony!" Carol expostulated. "I love my city, too. I come here and am renewed, but if I lived here always, then where would I go for that renewal?" "You wouldn't need it, then, believe me!" Tony assured her. Carol felt argumentative. "The ideal life — for me at any rate — would be to live both places." A sudden light broke across her face. "That's it, Tony! I never thought it out before — never even planned to say it. It just came — but it's just right." "I don't agree," Tony said doggedly. "You let me manage your days for awhile — really show vou these mountains as I know them. You'll never want to leave — you'll never want to let those pretty little feet touch hot city pavement again." He manipulated the big convertible deftly into Fred's yard, and the children came whooping. "Aunt Carol! Aunt Carol!" The little girls flung their arms about her and held up their faces for kisses. Steve stood back a little, but his face was bright with happiness. Carol felt the warmth of their love. She gathered them close. 'Are you glad to see me?" she whispered. "Oh, ves, Aunt Carol! We've got so many things to show you!" They went across the porch and into the big living room, a close little knot, laughing gaily. Dolly Graham was waiting in the open door, smiling a welcome. "Fred had to go down to the lower field, Carol. Something happened to one of the horses. But he'll be back soon." Carol smiled. "It's so good to be here!" She crossed to Mrs. Trent and bent over the invalid. "You look wonderful, Mrs. Trent, and Tony tells me you're much better." "Tam, Carol. Since Dolly's been here I've seemed to pick up wonderfully. Oh, I can't get about yet, but I don't suffer so much." "That's what happiness does! And you are happier now, aren't you?" Page 391 392 "T think we all are," Mrs. Trent said, and sent a grateful smile toward Dolly Graham. €€CCOME, Aunt Carol," Kathy tugged at her aunt's arm. "Let me show you! We've fixed up the guest room special." "Let me show! Let me show Trudy shouted, scrambling ahead. "Of course! And you, too, Becky. And Steve!" Carol laughed. "All of you come and show me. I'll bet each one can find something special." They went gaily up the stairs and into the narrow room Carol remembered so well. But it was different now. 'The small dormer window at the end, by which she had crouched to get a peek at her beloved mountains, was gone. Now the whole end of the room was one big window, framing the Grand Teton and its satellites. She caught her hand to her heart and a little cry of delight escaped her lips. "Do you like it, Carol?" Tony Muir had come upstairs behind them, and now he stood looking over Carol's shoulder at the magnificent view.: "T love it! Oh, Tony!" She put her arm around Kathy, standing beside her, and gave the little girl a quick squeeze. "Kathy, darling! It's wonderful! And you did it for me?" Kathy turned a shining face up to her aunt's. "Tony told Daddy to do it. 'Tony said you ought to have a good view of the mountains and not just a little peek at them out of that old window." Carol turned to the man. "You and your sister think of the loveliest things!" (2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Tony grinned. "I think so, too," he said complacently, and then chuckled. "Roses on your bedspread, Aunt Carol," Trudy chanted. "Yes, darling. Lovely!" "I painted the picture, Aunt Carol," Becky announced proudly. "But I painted the chair!" Steve - bragged. "It's all perfect — absolutely perfect!" Carol cried. "Tony said if everything was just right, you might stay a long, long, time," Kathy volunteered. Carol's smile was tremulous. How had she ever doubted their deep and abiding love for her? But welcome as she was, loved as she was, she was a guest in this house and could not stay a long, long time. "We'll see, darling. I'll stay as long as I possibly can." Carol didn't have to wait for Fred's return to know how things had progressed between him and Dolly Graham. She didn't need to see how his look softened whenever his eyes fell on the woman. She didn't have to hear how his voice grew tender when he spoke to her. No, before Fred came back to the house, Carol knew. For Dolly Graham was right at home in Fred's house; she knew where everything was; and Mrs. Cartwright came to her for orders. Even Mrs. Trent and the children turned to Dolly Graham for the answer to every question from what petticoat should Trudy wear to what Grandma Trent should eat. FTER supper that evening, after Carol had tucked the children in bed and told them a story, 'Tony ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN suggested that she go for a ride with him. "The moon should be gorgeous tonight, Carol. I want you to see it come up over Signal Mountain." As they drove along toward the vantage point Tony had selected, he began, casually enough, "You've seen how it is between Fred and Dolly, Carol. I don't know whether he's formally asked her to marry him — I think not, or she would have told me. But he soon will. And it's going to be wonderful for both of them — and for the children, too. The kids adore Dolly and she adores them. It will give their home a permanence Fred could never achieve alone — even with the help of his mother and that excellent housekeeper." Carol smiled at her companion. "You don't need to beat the drums, Tony. I'm as glad as can be. If there's one thing I want for Elizabeth's children, it is a real home, with a mother and father in it to give them that emotional security that children need. I couldn't hope for anyone better than your sister." "Tm glad, Carol. Sometimes relatives — especially when they are as close as you are to the children — well, you know, they can be jealous of the love and authority bestowed on another." "Jealous?" Carol picked up the word. "Oh, Tony, [''d be wicked to be jealous of the good life your sister can give them." "Well, P'm glad," he repeated lamely. Then, "Here we are — and just in time." He swung the car around so they were facing east, facing the low dome of Signal Mountain, silhouetted against a sky bright with the 393 pale radiance of the rising moon behind it. As they watched, the great yellow disc came slowly, majestically into sight. Carol was speechless with enchantment as she watched the moon sail free of the mountain top, to shed its light across the narrow valley. Instinctively she turned to look westward toward the craggy peak of the Grand Teton, a soft gray under the moon, its hollows filled with snow that seemed to be a muted blue-white. It was a breathtaking sight, and Carol's artist-soul was hushed in reverent awe. After awhile, when the moon was sailing high above the valley, 'Tony turned the car homeward. Carol was still held in the spell of what she had just witnessed, and Tony seemed to understand her mood. He drove back in silence. But as he bade her goodnight, he said gently, "This is just a beginning, Carol. I have many other beautiful sights to show you. We'll enjoy them to- 12? Gether, you and I! ONY was as good as his word. He was forever planning something special, something to amuse and delight Carol. There were boating and fishing on the lake; there were horseback excursions into the mountains; there were picnics along the wooded river bank; and there were gay trips into the village for Church, or for a show. They did not often go alone together. Nearly always there were the children and frequently Fred and Dolly, and sometimes Mrs. Trent. For it was summertime, a time for family picnics, and it would have been unthinkable to ride away and leave the others sitting at home. 394 But somehow, in spite of the jolly crowd around them, 'Tony managed always to make it seem that the adventure was planned for her, alone, and that she and Tony were enjoying it in a togetherness that no companions could invade. Carol was conscious of this effect and felt that she should be proud and happy that Tony was making such an effort to captivate her. But for some obstinate, yet scarcely realized reason, Carol was not quite captivated. It was as if 'Tony was host at a perpetual picnic. You can't build a permanent relationship on a holiday base — you can't judge what life is like from a picnic, she told herself. Maybe, if Tony would just forget about me and go home and tend to his sister's ranch, and give me a chance to look at this thing objectively, it might be different! But he can't! She admitted ruefully. He is too young, too eager! And she remembered what Brent Gibson had said about a young man's ardor. The next time Tony came to round them all up for a_ picnic, Carol said firmly, "Come here, Tony. I want to show you something." She led him to the end of the porch and pointed off across the valley to the Grand Teton. "Look at the light on my favorite mountain! I've never seen it quite like it is today, and I want to try to get that effect down while it's there. So I'm not going on any picnic today. I'm going to stay here and "But the kids!" 'Tony expostulated. ""They've planned on this!" His sister spoke up. "There's no RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 need to disappoint the children, Tony...." "I'm not going to take them without Carol!" Tony said petulantly. "I wasn't thinking of that, but Fred has to see a man over at the Diamond G Ranch, and I was going with him. We can take the station wagon and the children, and have - our picnic out at Brooks Lake — they've never been there. They'll enjoy it, I'm sure." "Well, I guess I might as well go home and do some work, then," Tony's grumbling was softened by his cheerful voice. "If Carol would rather paint than have a picnic with mie... "You know it's my life, Tony!" "But I've been trying so hard to change your life! But I suppose I have been selfish — never giving you a moment to yourself. Listen, Sis," he turned to Dolly, "if you and Fred will take the children, I'll get back to the ranch and see if Luke can fd something for me to boss." "We'll take the children, Tony." CAROL was aware that Dolly had made the decision without even consulting Fred. Even Elizabeth wouldn't have done that, but it was none of Carol's affair. Dolly called to the children, "Get your things, children! Your father will be here any minute now." Becky, the quiet one, the one who painted a picture for Carol's room, came and stood hesitatingly beside her aunt. Carol bent and put an arm about the child. "What is it, Becky?" "Could I stay with you, Aunt Carol? Maybe I could paint the mountain, too." "Of course, darling. I'd love to ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN have you with me. Come along, I'll fix you up a little easel and we'll take your little camp stool — you and I, honey, are going to have ourselves a real day of it!" An hour later, Carol and Becky were sitting side by side, facing the Grand Teton, both silent and intent on their work. Sometimes Carol cast an eye on the little girl's work, but she offered no suggestions. Not at this time, when the child was actually creating. Later, she'd have to give Becky some instruction — she seemed to have talent. And Carol looked with new fondness and appreciation at this child who was so often almost lost between her older sister and the adorable Trudy. They were so intent on_ their work, the two of them, that they did not hear someone approaching. It was only when a shadow fell across Carol's easel that she looked up. Ve involuntary cry of happiness escaped her. "Brent!" Instinctively she rose, and he came close, taking her shoulders between his hands as he did in the office when he wanted to stress some instructions. "Hello, Carol! Yes, I decided to take your advice and come up here for my vacation." 'Then he went on soberly, "I might as well tell the whole truth. I got to thinking that I was a mighty poor sort to leave the field to that handsome youngster, without even a struggle!" Carol felt a wild desire to laugh and clap her hands. Instead she said, "Well, I'd about decided that you didn't care much if you did lose your chief artist." "But now you see that I do care. 395 And I'm here to fight for her." His voice was light, but his eyes were serious. Then he turned to Becky, smiling down at the child's splashed painting. "But I see that even up here, you have competition." "This is Becky, Elizabeth's third — anda budding artist as you've seen. Becky, this is Mr. Gibson." "Uncle Brent to you, honey," he said, and squinted at her work. Becky watched him, waiting for his verdict. "Will you give me a job when I am as big as Aunt Carol?" she asked. "If you want it, I certainly will. But maybe we won't have to wait that long. How much are you asking for that portrait of the Grand Teton?" Becky's eyes flew wide. "Would you buy it?" she gasped. "I'd like to, if it's for sale. T'll frame it and hang it in my office where I can look at it every day and think of Miss Becky Trent, the artist. Would you consider five dollars?" Becky's clear brown eyes went from the man to her aunt, eager, questioning. Carol nodded, smiling, "Oh, yes!" Becky cried ecstatically. "Oh, yes, Uncle Brent. But it isn't quite finished yet." "Well, Pll pay you now because I don't want to lose it. And you can finish it before you deliver it to me." He took his wallet from his pocket, extracted a five dollar bill, and handed the money to the little girl. She turned it over and over in her fingers, a happy, reflective smile on her lips. 'Then she lifted her face. "Oh, thank you, Heavenly Father!" she cried. (To be continued ) [LFROM THE FIELD [7 RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Photograph submitted by Ludean H. Cox SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH), MANTI SOUTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR SEVEN CONSECUTIVE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: LeOra McArthur; May Livingston; Mina Anderson, Second Counselor; Lucile Carpenter, President; Iris Anderson, First Counselor; Elva Christiansen. Second row, seated, left to right: Lora Peterson; Mamie Reid; Azua Whiting; Bertha Carlson; Lillian Frandson; Olive Braithwaite; Alfreda Nielson; Bernice Anderson, Secretary; Gladys Jones; Doris Childs. Third row, standing, left to right: Miranda Madsen; Bertha Carpenter; Emerett Munk; Eunice Garbe, former president; Vangie Madsen; Laura Smith; Petra Anderson. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Sarah Anderson; Evelyn Wintch; Ruth Cheek; Violet Madsen; Alta Nielson. The following visiting teachers were not present when the picture was taken: Almeda Sorenson; Lenore Denison; LaRue Sterner; Vera Jensen; Aileen V othees; Zina Henrie; Ruby Nielson; Elta Alder; Maranda Buchanan; Bertha Peterson; Ruth Magleby; Joanne Stringham. Ludean H. Cox is president of South Sanpete Stake Relief Society. Page 396 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 397 Photograph submitted by Roma C. Esplin ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Doris Webb, accompanist, is seated at the piano; May A. Pace, chorister, stands at the left in the third row: Roma C. Esplin, President, St. George Stake Relief Socicty, is standing next to Sister Pace in the third row; Alta V. McConkic, First Counselor stands in the fifth row, fourth from the right; Phoebe L. Esplin, Second Counselor, stands in the fifth row, fourth from the left. Roma C. Esplin reports: "We have an outstanding group who have been very faithful at all our practices. For the past two vears we have furnished the music for two of our stake quarterly conference, as well as for our special programs.' Photograph submitted % Betty Jo C. Reiser ROSE PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION Left to right: Margaret P. Tomlinson, who spoke on "Teaching Light"; Helen M. Ayrton, who discussed "The Long Way That Each Must Tread Alone'; Verda Mae F. Christensen, who spoke on "From Ifome to Home'; Ora T. Liston, who spoke on "My Steps Aright"; Elizabeth B. Reiser, guest speaker. 398 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Using an adaptation of William Cullen Bryant's poem "To a Waterfall," Rose Park Stake Relief Society keynoted its annual visiting teachers convention with the theme "My Steps Aright." The picture "Christ at Heart's Door' was placed at a focal point of interest at the pulpit. Guest speaker for the evening was Elizabeth B. Reiser, former president of the British Mission Relief Society. In addition to some 250 visiting teachers, several members of ward bishoprics and all of the Rose Park Stake Presidency were in attendance. Invitations, table decorations, and favors also carried out the theme. The convention was a spiritual feast and again much to improve the quality and spirituality of visiting teaching in Rose Park take. Betty Jo C. Reiser is president of Rose Park Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elizabeth W. Winn BAKERSFIELD STAKE (CALIFORNIA), TAFT WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MODEL OF GLOBE THEATER The picture shows Evelyn P. Brown, literature class leader of the Taft Ward Relief Society, with her model of the Globe Theater of Shakespeare's time. The model was made by Brother Harvey Booth and Brother George Booth in detail according to the likeness of the old Globe Theater where Shakespeare's plays were produced. Sister Roberta Booth, a member of the Taft Ward Relief Society, dresses dolls in authentic costumes to represent characters of each of Shakespeare's plays as they are given by Sister Brown. The photograph shows dolls representing Hamlet and his mother, Queen Gertrude. There are draperies and brocaded wall tapestries in the balconies, and the sign of the Zodiac is on the stage ceiling. In giving these programs, the material as outlined by Elder Briant S. Jacobs has been used, and class members of the Taft Ward Relief Society have participated. The theater is now on display at the Taft Union High School for students studying Shakespeare. Elizabeth W. Winn is president of Bakersfield Stake Relief Society. Seaching Aids for the 1958-59 Lessons Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society HE best teacher can be infnitely better when visual aids are used adequately. Only as these aids serve definite purposes, however, are they of teaching value. To aid means to help or assist in clarifying a point, to stimulate thinking, to emphasize or forward lesson objectives. The General Board feels that these teaching aids should be simple, brief, and to the point, that our Relief Society class leaders need not go into them and prepare them from a technical or professional angle, because they could be very expensive and could consume a great deal of time with that type of preparation. However, it should be kept in mind that if lessons are to be understood and remembered, good, simple teaching aids can be very helpful and valuable to a teacher in accomplishing her purpose, if carefully selected and suitable for Relief Society. The exchange of ideas for visual aids and a discussion of their use and value can be taken up in the union meeting departments. Each aid has something it can do "best," and helps most when used accordingly. Theology The blackboard may be used to good advantage in our study of The Doctrine and Covenants. 'To emphasize points to stress in the lessons, to aid in remembering, references from The Doctrine and Covenants and The Book of Mormon could be listed, so members could refer to their books as these teachings are given in Lesson 13. Flash cards could be used to bring effectively to mind a review of the course objective. You might sketch on a chart or blackboard, scales showing wisdom outweighing riches, for Lesson 9. Requisites and blessings could be charted or listed as you study Lesson 10. Appropriate pictures for these lessons would be: The Last Supper and one of Emma Smith. Pictures make lessons more meaningful. 'They help us visualize places, individuals, and situations not familiar to us. They crystallize ideas and form a basis for understanding together. Page 399 400 Visiting Teacher Messages Again we suggest the use of the blackboard or a chart to write: The scriptural quotation The objective The points to stress For the chart a large piece of butcher paper could be used. Print with colored crayon or use felt point pen and India ink. Work Meeting Posters or charts are valuable to work meeting leaders in creating interest, focusing attention, and informing members of the activities of the next work meeting. 'The Home Management discussions for 1958- 59 are entitled "Managing a Home." The aspects of family living which are involved in the administration of a home might be listed. Make your chalk talk; use it to depict action (as stick figures) to emphasize certain phases of the course. Literature Class leaders will find a number of visual aids suitable and of value for our new course, America's Literature—Meet The New World. A chart (inside front cover of text, America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes), which relates the social - political events in America to the life-dates of outstanding writers, will be helpful. A chalk board outline of great ideas or historical events may be used. A map would be especially useful to show places, distances, and to help visualize problems in the early colonization of this country. Just a simple map or outline of the Eastern coastline could be used. With the use RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 of a ruler, a small map can be enlarged to any size. Pictures in magazines that could be used are: Life, "A New Landing at Jamestown," May 27, 1957. National Geographic Magazine, May 1957, "Captain John Smith of Virginia," and November 1957, "Ihe Mayflower." - A special visual aids packet for this new course will be available. It consists of a map and from ten to twelve pictures in color—artists' reproductions made especially for this packet. 'The pictures will illustrate the first year's lessons; the map will serve for several years. 'This packet is made especially for the Relief Society by the Bigham Young University and the packet can be obtained directly from Brigham Young University, Audio-Visual Center, Provo, Utah. The packet will be available September 1, 1958. 'The price is $5. This visual aid project seemed necessary, since so few pictures are available for the first century of American colonization. However, the purchase of this packet by ward and stake Relief Societies is optional. Social Science Charts or blackboard listings will add interest and stimulate thinking for these lessons, which are prepared to aid and encourage happy, righteous family living. Drop or flip charts will be especially helpful in focusing attention on one point at a time in developing a subject. In Lesson 17, two flip charts might be used, one listing "Causes of Delinquency" and the other "What To Do About It." LESSON DEPARTMENT These can be made easily by using stencils and tape. A useful visual aid for Lesson 21— "How Do I Rate?" will be found in the social science lesson itself for May 1959 to be published in FebTuary 1959. Magazine Representatives and Secretaries These leaders could make use of posters or charts to stimulate interest in their work, to clarify or put across an idea in one fleeting glance, or to introduce or present information in a tabulated or methodical form. Music Leaders will find material in the text, Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall, which can be used as visual aids in their departments. Flash cards may be used before the group to give a_ brief message, or they may be used for emphasis regarding individual responsibilities. 401 Lesson previews appear far enough in advance of the time the lessons are presented to acquaint teachers with the year's course of study, so that they may be alert to collect pictures, articles, and various aids which will enrich their lessons. Class leaders are expected to use suggestions which have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine in previous years, and to plan visual aids to fit their particular situations in keeping with the standards of Relief Society. Layton, Leone G.: "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Aids in Relief Society," January 1953, page 27. Layton, Leone G.: "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418. Evuiott, Epiru S.: 1954-55 Lessons," June 1954, page 400. Eyrinc, Mixprep B.: "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," June 1955, page 403. ® « Eyrinc, Mitprep B.: "Audio-Visual Aids for 1956-57," July 1956, page 475. Younc, Mary R.: "Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons," June 1957, page 398. "Teaching Aids for >_< Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Elder Roy W. Doxey HERE were some suggestions made in the preview of last year's lessons that will continue to be applicable each year we study The Doctrine and Covenants. We hope that the five points quoted below from that preview will continue to be fully noted for application. To us living in the year 1957, the Lord has provided in his book of revelations: (1) the counsel of our all-wise Father whose object is to bring joy into the lives of his children today by their following instructions given to individuals, groups of persons, and the Church over a century ago; (2) a knowledge of how to live in this present world of uncertainty and insecurity; (3) the meaning of world conditions and events; (4) a philosophy of life that enables one to see God's justice and purposes for mankind; 402 (5) a spirit of conversion to the truthseeker which bears witness that Jesus is the Chnst and of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith (The Relief Society Magazine, June 1957, page 403). These same purposes are found in the revelations outlined for study this year. There have been included some revelations which were omitted from the chronological sequence studied last year. Sections 7, 11, 15, and 16 are in this group. The revelations studied to the present have been preparatory to the organization of the Church. 'The lessons in this series are divided almost equally between that period and the post-Church organization period. From the beginning, the Lord revealed the blessings which would follow adherence to the principles of righteousness. The first lesson for this year is written principally from one verse of Section 11. This verse sets before us the great reward offered the sons and daughters of God if they are obedient to his word. In preparation for that lesson, it is suggested that every member of the Relief Society memorize this important truth: Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D & C 11:7). There is considerable satisfaction in memorizing some of the great truths from the scriptures, especially when they give encouragement and faith to carry on in the only true way of life. Many persons came to the Prophet Joseph Smith seeking answers to questions. One of the most common questions raised at this early RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 period seemed to concern the desires held by those persons. 'The prophets have said much about this subject. The lesson about the desire of the people to serve in the Gospel Plan is an attempt to answer a number of questions where the desires of people affect their salvation. We are also to learn' about the importance of missionary work, and why we are of great worth in the sight of the Lord. An important revelation on doctrine provides us with a reason why the Lord declared to Joseph Smith that the creeds of men were an abomination in his sight. With Lesson 13 and the remaining lessons for this year, emphasis is placed upon basic instructions regarding Church organization and its successful functioning as the kingdom of God. Additional important gospel teachings are set forth; the opportunities and _ privileges of Church membership are made known; the importance of the sacrament is indicated; and the final lesson deals with items of counsel to the Relief Society, together with a discussion of the callings received by Emma Smith. The sections omitted from the chronological sequence in this new series are numbers 23 and 24. The lessons for 1958-59 have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 9—"... Behold, He That Hath Eternal Life Is Rich" (D & C 11:7). (D & C, Sections 11:7; 14) Objective: "And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D & C 14:7). LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 10—The Desire to Serve in the Gospel Plan (D & C, Sections 7 and 11) Objective: "If you will live for the blessings you desire, you will obtain them" (Joseph Smith, Sr. To Brigham Young). Lesson 11—The Worth of Souls (D & C, Sections 15, 16, and 18) Objective: "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God' (D & C 18:10). Lesson 12—A Message From Him Who Is Eternal (D & C, Section 19) Objective: To indicate that by modern revelation the Lord has leavened the religious world. Lesson 13—The Church Organized in the Last Dispensation (D & C, Sections 20:1-36; 21) Objective: To emphasize the preparations made for the formal organizing 403 of the Church and to indicate a relationship between the teachings of The Doctrine and Covenants and The Book of Mormon. Lesson 14—The Responsibilities of the Members of the Church (D & C, Section 22; 20:37-84; 26) Objective: To set forth Priesthood responsibilities that mothers might teach their children. Lesson 15—The Sacrament (D & C, Section 27:1-4; 20:75-79) Objective: To emphasize the reason for partaking of the sacrament, and of the necessity to be worthy to receive it. Lesson 16—The Revelation to Emma Hale Smith (D & C, Section 25) Objective: "And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better' (D & C 25:10). Visiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Christine H. Robinson ACH generation is faced with its own problems and with the need for making its own special decisions. 'The present generation, with the complexities of modern life, must make unusually important decisions. 'Today's world is filled with uncertainties. Conflicting ideologies and advances in scientific fields have brought new problems and new responsibilities to the individual. In order to solve these modern-day problems effectively, and to shoulder these new responsibilities, each individual must have a deep-rooted faith in the divinity of our Lord and Savior and in his plan of salvation. Im order to live a happy and useful life each individual must have an appreciation for the spiritual values of life. The 1958-59 visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants," provide solid source foundations on which to base the solutions to many present-day problems. 'These modernday messages give counsel, and ad- 404 vice, and encouragement, and, as instructions from The Doctrine and Covenants, come directly from our Father in heaven — the source of all wisdom. This year's messages provide fundamental counsel on the importace of prayer. 'They counsel us to keep always a prayer in our hearts and thus enjoy spiritual strength, comfort, and courage. 'These messages point out that affliction, which can come to any of us, actually can bring us closer to the Lord. 'These messages admonish us to "beware of pride" lest it become a tool of temptation in Satan's hands. We are reminded to search our souls and make sure we do not seek to counsel the Lord. The messages tell us what we must do, if we would merit mighty blessings from our Father in heaven. They give us the simple but effective formula for gaining one of the Lord's choicest blessings, peace within our souls. These "Truths to Live By" point the way to a happy, more abundant life. 'They emphasize the fact that happiness is not dependent upon wealth or worldly success — nor upon the accomplishment of great deeds — but, rather, upon simple, everyday kindnesses and small personal victories — virtues which lie within the reach of each and every one of us. By applying the truths in these messages to our lives, our faith in the inspired word of the Lord should increase and we should develop firm and lasting testimonies of his divinity. These messages should impress us with the love and concern of our Father in heaven for us his children, and, through this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 realization, we should strive to live in accordance with his teachings. This year, as in the previous year, the material used to highlight the messages is of a practical nature aimed at helping each sister visualize how the message can be applied to her individual life. Each message contains a true life incident illu-— strating how the message has influenced others and, thereby, by personal application, how it may influence us. The messages and their objectives for the year 1958-59 are as follows: Message 9—"Yea, Whosoever Will Thrust in His Sickle and Reap, the Same Is Called of God" (D & C 14:4). Objective: To show that both through active Church work and through selfless service to others, we can all help in the Lord's work. Message 10—'"Remember the Worth of Souls Is Great in the Sight of God" (D & C 18:10). Objective: —To show the importance of saving souls. Message 11—"... I Will Bless All Those Who Labor in My Vineyard With a Mighty Blessing..." (D & C 21:9). Objective: To show how we can labor in the Lord's vineyard and qualify for a mighty blessing. Message 12—"'Learn of Me, and Listen to My Words; Walk in the Meekness of My Spirit, and You Shall Have Peace in Me" (D & C 10.208). Objective: To show that the only sure way to have peace within one's soul is through learning and keeping God's teachings. LESSON DEPARTMENT Message 13—"... Seek Not to Counsel Your God" (D & C 22:4). Objective: To emphasize the importance of seeking the Lord's counsel in faith and meekness. Message 14—"... Beware of Pride, Lest Thou Shouldst Enter Into Temptation" (D & C 23:1). Objective: To show that Satan uses pride to tempt us and that 'Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall' (Prov. 16:18). Message 15—"Pray Always, and I 405 Will Pour Out My Spirit Upon You, and Great Shall Be Your Blessing...' (D&C 19:38). Objective: To emphasize the importance of constant, sincere prayer. Message 16—"Be Patient in Afflictions, for Thou Shalt Have Many; But Endure Them, for, lo, I am With Thee, Even Unto the End of Thy Days" (D & C 24:8). Objective: To show that afflictions are a normal part of life's experiences and can be the basis of great blessings if we trust in the Lord. Work IT leeting— Managing a Home Preview of Discussions for 1958-59 Vesta Wright Barnett SOCIOLOGISTS have recognized for a long time that there is no substitute for a good home in the lives of well-adjusted, happy people. A good "emotional climate" in the home is of prime importance. The well-ordered home provides the "growing ground" to help each member of a family develop into the finest individual possible. We must be aware of the importance of good home management. We must also recognize that home management is a skill that can be acquired, if one is willing to work and study to acquire it. It has been said that men, women, and children, in any family unit, are not getting a full share of life if only their food, shelter, and clothing needs are satisfied. It is also the homemaker's function to consider in her planning the mental and spiritual well-being of family members. The home management discussions this year have been planned to show the part good management can play in helping each homemaker meet the physical, as well as the emotional needs of her loved ones; to help her realize the importance of her role as the homemaker; and to assist her in the management of daily family problems, such as moncy, time, attitudes, ambitions, knowledge, skills, and energy in such a manner as to provide for each family member the greatest possible growth and devclopment. Titles for the 1958-59 course of discussions are as follows: Discussion 1, Managing a Home Discussion 2. Setting Goals in Homemaking. Managing Responsibilities of the Homemaker Discussion Ww 406 Discussion 4. Qualities of the Effective Home Manager Discussion 5. Operating the Household. Discussion 6. Making the Most of Time and Energ Discussion 7. Food Planning and Preparation; Discussion 8. Clothing the Family. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Bibliography CranpALL, Eizapetu, and Gross, Irma: Management for Modern Families, Appleton Century-Crafts, Inc., New York. GoopyeEar, Marcaret R., and Kiour, Mivpren: Managing for Effective Living, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York. NicKELL, PAuLENA, and Dorsey, JEAN Muir: Management in Family Living, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., New York. DS eee Aen Literature— Meet the New World Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Elder Briant S. Jacobs HROUGH accumulating July 24 celebrations and less formal moments of reminiscence, it has become comfortably easy for Latterday Saints to speak in revered tones of Latter-day Saint forefathers who came to "the Valley" in 1847 and before the advent of the railroad as the pioneers, almost as if there had been no others; almost as if they had originated in a vacuum; as if in predominant measure the truths Latter-day Saints hold most dear had their beginnings with them. While the magnificence of their accomplishment should never for a moment be forgotten nor minimized, neither should their own considerable debts to their forefathers remain unacknowledged or unrespected. At no time since the Renaissance has modern man lived "by bread alone" or by spirit alone. America's heritage, rich and proud as it is, has achieved its enduring greatness by combining its various values into a pattern complex yet balanced. Nor are America's values only economic or political, imaginative or spiritual: they are all inclusive, and as varied as her people. And the best, the greatest of these endure because they are stated in the "great and marching words" which for centuries have formed the collective heart of the people of the United States. It is these words which, in each generation, become indispensable to all those sincerely seeking to define relationship to the past, that they might grant it honor in their hearts or by their deeds. From its beginning, American literature has been built of the bone of the age out of which it came. While its aesthetic or imaginative qualities have sometimes been weak, sometimes scarcely present at all, it has never forgotten its responsibility to the society which produced it, not only to muror the fears and LESSON DEPARTMENT hopes and beliefs of its age, but to create them. In studying periods of literature earlier than our own, we can never earn true insight and understanding if our dominant intent is to judge earlier periods by present values, so that we may point out how different they were, how superior we are. We should, for the moment, forget ourselves—as we strive to think, to feel, to hope as we would have done had we lived in the writer's own age, he being our neighbor. Finally, American literature is not merely a branch of English literature, to be measured by the achievements of the great English writers or by the degree to which American literature conforms to the workings of the English mind. To say that American literature is only English, is as foolish as to say that citizens of the United States are only American. 'They are made up of English and many other citizens as well; all transformed into the unique newness which can only be defined as American. Actually, a literature can be compared to no other standard but itself, nor be measured by any measure but its own. As we studied English literature, our reward came when we gradually realized that, being created out of its own world, it was unique. Likewise the world of Shakespeare we found to be unique unto itself, and so it is with American literature. Similar, yes, yet how different. And in that difference les that genius which is peculiarly America's own. It is this which, through our own creative reading efforts, we will strive to possess, and to gain an insight which, in its depth and splen- 407 dor, will be its own sustaining reward. During the first year of this new course, we shall consider the Renaissance, or "great awakening" and its influence in freeing mankind from a dark and medieval world. We shall find that the brave explorers of uncharted lands and seas were inspired by the new knowledge that the world was not small and restricted as conceived by the medieval mind; and that those seeking religious freedom, were moved by that part of the Renaissance tradition which freed man from the dominance of one authoritarian church and led him to think and act for himself. We shall recall the historical events contemporary with and_ following the Reformation and discuss the religious movements which were the outgrowth of this great religious revolt. Recalling these facts we shall be reassured that the Reformation and discovery of America were not only significant historical events, but were essential factors in the restoration of the gospel upon the American Continent; that without freedom of thought and action the gospel could not have been restored or lived. Against this background of discovery and widened horizons of thought, emerge great and interesting men and women whose recorded words constitute the beginnings of America's literature. Acknowledging an indebtedness to the Old World, we now turn our hearts and our interest to the people of the New World who evolved a literature which was distinctly and unmistakably their own. The lessons and objectives for the first year are as follows: 408 Lesson 1—The American Dream (Text, pp. 1-4; 33-36) Objective: To review the roles of adventure, financial gain, and_ religious freedom in bringing the first explorers and settlers to the shores of what now constitutes the United States. Lesson 2—Calvinist, Puritan, Pilgrim (Text, pp. 4-10; 36-44) Objective: To relate New England Puritanism to its origins and to its contrasting contemporary beliefs. Lesson 3—Roger Williams and the Puritan Theocracy ('Text, pp. 10-11; 45-49) Objective: To realize that our present-day broad freedoms were first won by Roger Williams as he successfully resisted ecclesiastical controls of conscience. Lesson 4—Some Puritan Women (Text, pp. 11, 53, 54, 55°57) Objective: Through glimpses into the lives of Puritan women, to acknowledge some of the common _ bonds which tie them to their sisters, regardless of time. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Lesson 5—T'wo Puritan Poets: Wigglesworth and Taylor (Text, pp: 50-53; 57-60) Objective: To contrast two different modes of Puritan poetry. Lesson 6—The Mather (Text, pp. 12-14; 61-73) Dynasty Objective: To become more familiar with the Puritan theocracy as exemplified im three generations of the Mathers. Lesson 7—Young Jonathan Edwards (Text, pp. 83-84) Objective: To understand Puritanism more fully as revealed in young Jonathan Edwards. Lesson 8—Jonathan Edwards, Putitan (Text, pp. 84-95) Objective: To see in Jonathan Edwards a harmonizing of various phases of New England Puritanism. Note: The special teaching aid packet for the literature lessons, being prepared by Brigham Young University, and described on page 400 of this issue of the Magazine, will be available September 1, 1958. Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Preview of Lessons for 1958-59 Elder John Farr Larson There is no substitute for the home. Its foundation is as ancient as the world, and its mission has been ordained of God from the earliest times.... From that day to the present, the home has been the chief characteristic of superior over inferior nations. The home then is more than a habitation, it is an institution which stands for stability and love in individuals as well as in nations (Joseph F. Smith: Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, page 300). Atl things established by the Lord have been founded on law and order, and the family is no exception. Family ties begin, operate, and dissolve according to law, both spiritual and temporal. 'The strength and effectiveness of these ties depend largely on obedience to prescribed laws governing family living. This requires a constant process of education and growth most of which is established and promoted by par- LESSON DEPARTMENT ents. It has been observed by experts that even small changes in parental attitudes, understanding, and conduct can improve the child's adjustment. Each can complement the other. To mature and "grow up" at proper tempo requires careful training and the kind of discipline which will eventually lead to self-discipline and self-mastery. This includes education in the art of living. There is a need to restore and keep father in his rightful place as head of the household, with mother as his teammate, assisting and sustaining him. If their efforts appear united to their children and they move consistently in the right direction, children will grow in respect, deference, and admiration for their parental influence. They will sense the security of counsel and leadership. When it becomes necessary to apply the parental brake, family ties are sometimes strained. But if satisfactory parent-child relationships have been established from the beginning, youth will accept limitations, knowing they exist for a wise and protective purpose. It is often too late to begin to establish this relationship after children find themselves in serious trouble because of lack of controls. If Latter-day Saint families are to achieve their maximum potential in family living, they must grow together—not apart. "And the spirit and the body are the soul of man" (D & C 88:15). If we are to progress and grow as "whole" individuals, we must educate the spirit along with the mind. If we can possess good mental and physical health, much stress and strain can be eliminated from the family circle. 'The total training of mind, body, spirit, 409 and personality represents a fulltime assignment for family members. If we can strike the right balance of work and play, the practical and the artistic, the spiritual and the temporal, the intellectual and the physical, our efforts will pay rich dividends in family living. Conscious planning and pursuit are required; the non-essential must be weeded out. But if the spirit of the Lord directs our efforts, the whole program can be a joyous one. How well we succeed may never be entirely evident, but a frequent reevaluation will help us know our progress in some measure. The social science lessons for this concluding year on the "Latter-day Saint Family" will attempt to help point the way and suggest a check sheet for evaluation. The lesson titles and objectives for 1958-59 follow: Lesson 15—The Family Ties Objective: To obtain an awareness of family ties and to know of their strength in meeting family problems. Lesson 16—"The Law Also Maketh You Free" Objective: To show the relationship between law and the family. Lesson 17—Weighed in the Balances Objective: To learn of the factors which influence deviate behavior, and how they may be used advantageously in the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency. Lesson 18—The Restraining Hand Objective: To learn the role of discipline as an influence in our lives. Lesson 19—"We Seek After These Things" 410 Organ Collections for the Church and Home ee AT THE CONSOLE—Felton.... 2.00 —e CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser.. 1.50 — DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM—Asper —........----. 2.50 — EASY CHURCH VOLUNTARIES—Nolte............ 1.50 — FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3— aea. 1.50 — ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper.................. 275 aa. ORGAN VISTAS—Presser...... 1.50. ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1 & 2—Schreiner..... Ea. 3.50 a REED ORGAN PLAYER— ee 1.00 — REED ORGAN SELECTIONS— Lewis ooo. Ceee cece eceeeeee eee 1.00 — 70 SOLOS FOR HAMMOND OR REED ORGAN |... 1.25 — 33 FAVORITE SOLOS FOR CHURCH AND GENERAL USE 1.50 The above organ collections are a very small part of our organ stock. We carry a large stock of books for every make of organ. Try us for your musical needs. Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 1 AYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 5 E. Lst South! Alt Lake City 11, Utah oS ws i \ { \ \ ' '! Please send the music indicated above. C) On Approval (1) Charge L) Money Enclosed 1 1 1 1 y { \ 1 1 24 ddress.. Ao > ity & State 145 wot unrvensiry, prove Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1958 Objective: To illustrate the importance of wholesome educational influence in the home. Lesson 20—"A Principle With Promise" Objective: To illustrate the importance of health and recreation in finding "a fulness of joy." Lesson 21—How Do I Rate? Objective: To provide an inventory for self-evaluation in family living. Notes on the Juan of the je HIS year there is only one author who has not previously been represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. A biographical sketch of Mrs. Vesta Wright Barnett, author of the work meeting discussions, follows. ESTA Wright Barnett, author of the discussions recommended for work meeting, "Managing a Home," was born in Lincoln, Idaho, the sixth child in a family of eight, born to Moses J. And Sarah Stanger Wright. Her father died when she was twelve, and she went to Salt Lake and lived with her sister and brother-in-law, the Ebenezer J. Kirkhams, to attend the L. D. S. High School. She attended Ricks College for two years and then the Brigham Young University from: which she received the B. S. And M. Ed. Degrees. She also did graduate work in home economics at the University of California in Los Angeles. She taught in Iona and Lincoln, Idaho, and Nephi, NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS Utah. In 1935 she went to Wyoming as a home demonstration agent for the Extension Service of the University of Wyoming, serving in Lincoln and Uinta counties. Sister Barmmett is the wife of Owen L. Barnett, professor of Educational Administration at the Bngham Young University. He had four children at the time of their marnage: Wilmer L., Maurice, Mauriel Williams, and Arlene Riley. The voungest daughter, Arlene, was eight vears old at the time of their marriage. Thev have had two daughters, Barbara fifteen. And May twelve, students at Bngham Young High School. At the present time Sister Barnett is chairman of the Department of Economics and Management in the College of Family Living at the B. Y. U. She teaches classes in Home Management and Family Finance. Always active in the Church. She has worked in all the auuiliary organizations. She served as president of the Palmyta Stake Primary for many years, and has served in the Stake Y. W. MLIA. Presidency in Palmyra and Utah Stakes. And on the Relief Society Stake Board in the Palmyta Stake. She has taught classes in Primary, Sunday School, M. I. A. And Relief Society. At the present time she is president of the University Ward Y. W. M. DLA. In Utah Stake. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see: Eider Roy W. Doxey. Author of the theology lessons. The wen Society Magazine. June 1957. Page Christine H Robinson. Author of the visiting teacher messages, June 1957. Page 412. 411 VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Selt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 @ LONDON TEMPLE DEDICATION We have several tours that will be in Europe for the London Temple Dedicotion. One for every pocket book. @ HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT The Historic Train and Historic Bus tours both leave August 1, 1958. Make your reservations early. @ NORTHWEST Tour to the Northwest will include Vancouver, Victoria, and Loke Tahoe, California, ete. Leave July 21, 1958 for two glorious weeks. Write or phone for free itineraries and programs of these above mentioned tours. VIDA FOX CLAWSON The Best in the West Travel With Us 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the literature lessons. July 1040. Page 471. Elder John Farr Larson, author of the social science lessons, June 1956, page 412. > (Vandal Dorothy ]. Roberts Once I watched the hands of a child Destroy a rose; bruise the petaled Form, being unlearned in pain And its dark finale, death. Oh, uncompassionate one Who wounds by tuming away, A tenderer than a flower's heart, With as frail a gesture, but more Cruel than those vandal fingers, Wanting them mnocence. LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE LONDON Temple Tours.00 — $69 up Air Polar Route Write: KEITH GUDMUNDSON L. D. S. Tours 327 East Manchester Blvd. Inglewood 1, California SALT LAKE CITY Telephone DA 2-1129 LOS ANGELES 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah e BEAUTIFUL © HANDY z. E DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$8.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles. 150 to 300 miles.......... - 39 300 to 600 miles.... @ 600 to 1000 miles........ 54 1000 to 1400 miles....................:000- 64 1400 to 1800 miles........0022..76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 33 bea St. Ae aes 1, Mm HO Page 412 Love Js Enough Eunice ]. Miles Our love had need of words when young, For that was when its songs were sung. But now we have matured together, And autumn gold illumes the weather. When our hearts beat in tender mood, Even lyrics may intrude, A poem frail as aspen leaf, Singing happiness and grief, Is fitting for the young to sing. We have small need of anything! Phone EM 3-2765 Telephone OR 8-2913 Sunday Dinner an Ynstitution in Our Home Mabel Law Atkinson I have always been an advocate of a lovely and special Sunday dinner. Lest I be misunderstood, let me hasten to add: a dinner mostly prepared on Saturday and not prepared on Sunday morning by the mother of the family. In the home in which I was privileged to be bor and reared, along with nine others, the Sabbath was recognized as a holy day, a very special day, and a very special dinner, as the noon meal was called in the country, was revercntly and gratefully and joyously enjoyed. In fact, Sunday dinner was an institution in our home, an institution which contributed to Sabbath worship and welded us together as a family unit. I recall that those Sunday dinners meant so much to us that when one or more of our number accepted an invitation to eat at the home of a friend, it was done with a feeling of regret that we must forego the pleasure of being with our own family, dressed up and dignified, yet joyously free, enjoying a dinner that simply could not be duplicated, a warm, appetizing dinner, for Mama said we needed a good meal before we went quietly and happily back to sacrament meeting at two o'clock, and that Papa needed such nourishment also to bear up under his stern responsibilities. Never will any of us forget that meal of roast chicken and dressing, or chicken fried or stewed, or roast beef and brown gravy, with dried corn with cream sauce, mashed potatoes (creamed with separator cream), vegetables mostly of our own raising, fresh and cooked, pickles—Mama had made, home-canned or home-pickled fresh fruit, homemade bread and home-churned butter (molded with a sheaf of grain on top of each half pound), and always, always an extra special cake. Even now I can see Mama's masterpiece, three-layer yellow cake with boiled cream, vanilla-flavored filling, and sliced bananas in between the layers and on top. No wonder childhood friends loved to eat Sunday dinner with us. Sunday morning was orderly, with all of us preparing for Sunday School. Each knew his task, for our home functioned as a small democracy. Dinner would be left on the back of the stove or in the oven or warming oven of the old black Home Comfort wood-and-coal-burning range during Sunday Schol. No one was left at home to do the finishing touches, for 10 a. M. Found Papa and Mama, with all of us children, clean and shining, in our places in Sunday School, unless illness prevented. A little after twelve noon found us on our way home, where each had his part to do to get dinner on, some just tending the little ones, putting on bibs, and placing the chairs at the table, while others mashed the potatoes and did the few last touches necessary to the perfection of the meal. 'There was no dallying, nor did we feel rushed. Dinner was served family style and leisurely enjoyed with Mama a queen in her own right. I remember at those dinners it seemed we were in the presence of royalty. And who shall say we were not? We were privileged to have many wonderfully fine and chosen people in our home. Papa was superintendent of the Sunday School and a counselor in the bishopric for twenty-five years and held other offices, as well, and Mama was president of the Relief Society, and stake visitors to the different organizations and to ward conferences, ate dinner at our home, (it was near the church) and sometimes stayed overnight, for in those days they drove several miles with the horse and buggy. Always they left their blessing in our home. I remember more than once when member of the stake presidency and others in their talks in sacrament meeting told of what a wonderful housekeeper, mother, and cook Mama was; of the exceptionally good warm dinner they had enjoyed with no one staying home to prepare it. Time cannot dim, but rather enhances my memory of the joy of the Sabbath in my childhood home. Often now as my own family, which has decreased to three, sits. Down to Sunday dinner, I see again a long, simply, yet beautifully set, bourtifully Jaden table with twelve of us around it, our heads reverently bowed while the blessing is. Being said. I see Mama smiling, as her eyes, glowing with pride, happiness, and contentment, go from face to shining face, and I hear Papa say, his voice vibrant with gratitude, "Children are an heritage of the Lord. Blessed is he who hath his quiver full of them." Page 413 Temple Tour Logan, Idaho Falls, and Cardston Temples. Also includes Lake Lovise and Banff. Leaves June 2nd for 8 days. $70.00 Hawaiian Tour Leaves June 17th on the S. S. Leilani, and returns by plane, July 5th. Northwest Scenic Tour Includes Passion Play at South Dakota, Yellowstone Park, Glacier Park, Vancouver, and Victoria, B. C. 17 days for $185.50 Historical L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at Hill Cumorah, Historical places of the Church, New York, Chicago, Washington, Canada, Niagara Falls, and Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City August 2, 1958. $210.00 for 23 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. European Tour Leaves August 29th for the Dedication of Margaret Lund Tours 3021 SOUTH 23RD EAST SALT LAKE CITY 9, UTAH Phone: IN 6-2909—AM 2-2337—CR 7-6334 Pure Vermont Maple Syrup Vermont Grade A Gal. $8.95 1% Gal. $5.25 Qt. $3.25 Pint $1.90 ALL SHIPMENTS POSTPAID Graham A. Clark P. O. Box 449 Brattleboro, Vermont Page 414 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-nine Mrs. Hattie Taytor McCLe. Tian Provo, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. AcnEs GRIFFIN BRANCH Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jutia ANN JoHnson LEBARON Long Beach, California Ninety-six Mrs. Mary Martua THOMAS Sheboygan, Wisconsin Ninety-five Mrs. SELMA LuNDBERG JENSEN Logan, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Saraw JANE ANDERTON PERKINS West Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Hannay Stusss JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sevina BEppoEs KELSEY Springville, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Emity Kinc Orr Orton, Alberta, Canada Mrs. ExvizaspetH Monur FEix Logan, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mitxicent Curtis SMITH Bakersfield, California Mrs. Lizzie ANN WHITEAR Santaquin, Utah Mrs. Resecca Harriet TAYLor TRACY Springdale, Idaho Mrs. Mary CurIsTENSEN BAXTER Gunnison, Utah Mrs. Emiry Lupvicson Lowry Holladay, Utah Ninety Mrs. Evita G. KEELE Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. JOHANNA JENSEN KLITGAARD Salt Lake City, Utah the English Temple. $889.00 The UNIVERSITY OF UTAH SUMMER SCHOOL announces a special course in AMERICAN LITERATURE CLARENCE GOHDES Professor of English, Duke University and co-author with James D. Hart of AMERICA'S LITERATURE, text to be used in RELIEF SOCIETY study of American Literature during 1958-59 DCCY will lead our two-week short course, to be held Jume 23, 26, 27, 30, July 2,3 9:00 a. M. To 12 noon Room 213, Spencer Hall, University of Utah Campus Fee, 6 three-hour sessions, $5 OTHER 1958 SUMMER SCHOOL EVENTS include daytime and evening classes and 46 special workshops, seminars, conferences, and _ institutes, including Writers' Conference, June 16-27 Choral Workshop, with famous Roger Wagner, June 17-28 School of Alcohol Studies, June 22-27 Vocal Workshop, with three prominent visiting authorities, August 4-22 High School Graduates Program, beginning June 17 Group Development, August 10-22 Driver Education, June 16-27, August 18-29 Summer Symphony, June 16-July 31 University Chorale, August 11-September 22 Youth Activities Program, beginning June 17 American Literature, June 16-August 29 Literature of the American West, June 16-August 29 Group Activities for Guidance, August 18-22 Children's Swimming, Creative Dance Programs, beginning June 16, 21 Write TODAY for free bulletins to Dean of Summer School, University of Utah 109 Annex, Salt Lake City 12, Utah Page 415 TALC M11 Pancess Tagan, CULOTTES... For cool, cool comfort... In charming tattersall check plisse Wonderful to wear! Easy to care for! No-iron plisse neatly tailored with action | back, quick. Zip front. 4 Completely washable in red, é ieee blue or gold with black check "2% Sizes 12-20 and 14%-24%. 398 ZCMI PRINCESS PEGGY DRESSES, Downstairs Store 4 Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following Princess Peggy's: Quan, Size Ist Color 2nd Color NOM 2... Cece es encncscessccenssceesssesecessssees Address...... Ccesesceserecenes CITY. Ccceseceseeeereeae Page 416 sesveeess LOME cececene SALES... Sccrecere 0 00 00 9000 Deen erereooeenes ext and Reference Books for Relief Society Lessons THEOLOGY: 1956-59 1. THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS (a) Library Cloth Edition $1.75 (b) Plastic Binding $.55 (add 12c¢ postage) 2. TRIPLE COMBINATION Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price (Leather-bound pocket edition) $6.00 REFERENCES: ie Tie TRI N [! A. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS COMMENTARY $4.00 1 4. DOCUMENTARY HISTORY OF THE A CHURCH (7-Volume Set) $20.00 ait (a) Volume | $3.50 (e) Volume V $3.50 ——=_— (b) Volume I $2.50 (f) Volume VI $2.50 (c) Volume III $2.50 (g) Volume VII $3.50 (d) Volume! V $3.50 LITERATURE: 5. AMERICA'S LITERATURE James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes From 1600 to 1950 $6.75 (Postage 15c) pe. SCIENCE: 6. GOSPEL IDEALS Discourses of President David O. McKay $4.00 7. GOSPEL DOCTRINE Discourses of Joseph F. Smith $3.50 8. DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG Compiled 'l John A. Widtsoe $3.50 | oe _— sends) vil iu 44 East South Temple -- "Salt lake — Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY; 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax { { | | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money | | order { have an account. Please charge. Amount en- | closed $ for numbered (encircled) books | I 1 (a) (b) 2 3 4 (a) tb) {c) td) cep (Ff) (g) 5 6 7 8 NAME.:: — | | ADDRESS; =. ——_ | | CITY ZONE STATE | | | Straw be Ways th al it's no Wonde; they'y nt delicious a family ¢ 4VOrite. Fruit Salads. Selatins, ice cream, Cobblers, Ples,, OF just With cream and Sugar, sty Prese, ved or m S add appeal to any meal. N all year round as and ice cre and. Make Sure you're Prepared ck UP on your s Ss am, a finer, Pures 5U9ar than tries are 89 delicious and ¢: ten in so Many differe = > 8Sé6l AlNf Gi Was the Common Shings Elsie McKinnon Strachan It was the common things which gave them strength, Whose courage cradled Freedom's lusty birth. No crown was their's, no carpet's royal length, But virgin land, and brawn, and valor's worth. The yield of corn, the hearth of hope and trust, These shaped their lives as good words shape the hymn; The pail of milk, bread, coarse but gold of crust, Drew prayerful thanks around each table rim. And we, in turn, give thanks each time we pause To treasure common things, deep-rooted ways, Nor let our chrome-bright progress dim their cause, But hold their triumphs emblem-high with praise: The right to speak, to worship as we please— Our country suckled life from such as these. The Cover: Lake Louise in the Canadian Rockies, Alberta, Canada Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Winsor Castle, A Fort Built by Bishop Anson P, Winsor 1869-70 at Pipe Springs in Northern Arizona Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Vlear and Sar If a woman had to choose one from the hundreds of magazines printed, and only one, she would have the richness of life in her hand if she selected The Relief Society Magazine. In it, her desires for inspiration, beauty, culture, knowledge, practicality, and oh, so much more, would be gratified. THE GROWING In 1842 A tiny seed was planted In faith. Warmed by hope, Nourished with labor and love, Sheltered in the splendor Of generous hands, This seed took life.... Grew and increased.... And, in turn, has shared Its faith, hope, and charity. With the sharing, It has arrived in 1958 Strong, warmly alive, A mother plant, Which nourishes and strengthens All who come within its circle. —Ann Rasmussen Price, Utah I went looking for bargains one day. They said there were plenty of sales on, so I jostled the crowd and handled each one. 'This one was faded—that one was worn—and who in my family could use it? So, after a weary search, I wended my way homeward, but whom should I meet, but the mailman. He handed me the mail, which sent my spirits soaring, for among the mail was my Relief Society Magazine. No need to go bargain hunting, for where else could you find for seventeen cents a bargain that really is a bargain than between the covers of this good book? So I settled myself down for a real good look. Would you like to take a glimpse with me of what these covers hold? You'll find living examples of treasures much more than silver or gold. —Esther Christensen American Fork, Utah Page 418 It thrills me so deeply as I read the wonderful things that are printed each month in The Relief Society Magazine. I am so proud to be a member of the Society, and so very grateful for the privilege of acting as a counselor and a member of the Singing Mothers. Every day of my life I am more appreciative of the wonderful women who stand at the head of this great organization, the dearest, sweetest, most wonderful personalities in the world. —Blanche B. Westerberg St. Anthony, Idaho I would hate to miss a single issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Out here mid-Atlantic in the Azores, we do not have a Relief Society organized, but now that we have five women, we hope to. I love to study through the Magazine and read the lessons and all the inspirational articles and poems. Each issue is eagerly awaited. 'Thank you for such a constant source of strength and uplift, which all of us who are mothers especially need. —Janeine Heiner APO 406 New York City, N. Y. To help remind the sisters of The Relief Society Magazine in our ward, we have the following poem hanging in our meetinghouse: Dear Sisters: If you had a housemaid To help you with your chores And show you how to cook the meals Or help you wax the floors, And if that maid could help you learn To raise your family right, You wouldn't be without her— She'd make your task so light. Now we have such a maid in mind, And she's mighty thrifty, dear, For all the wages that she asks Is two dollars per year! THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE —Jean Cherry Middleton, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Louise W. Madsen Glady s S. Boyer Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott 'laine Me Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Josie B ara Edith P. Backman Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - = = Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45, JULY 1958 NO. 7 — SPECIAL FEATURES Love at Home Leah D. Widtsoe 420 The Western Canadian Mission aPreston R. Nibley 426 The Olympian Rain Forest vesseeesctnsserenseeeeseeeeeeeeee--..-DOrothy J. Roberts 433 Honor Thy Father and Mother 2ou.. I. C.. C. Cccccccccecsssescceccnscencecseseeccssesenseceseeesscseesesssesesecsosaseceseensnenscansuscseseseeeneceeeree 440 The Yellow Lime 202.2... CscscssssssssssnsscsseesesscessscsssoeccescsenssscoecessecsosssesececeencaensssetenecsasensesccesceeesesThelma Groneman 487 FICTION "Not to the Swift'' — Chapter 1] oo... Ec. EecsccccscsseeceseneeccctsensescccsceseerecenenecsseeseseneDeone R. Sutherland 428 The Long View = Sara O. Moss 444 Elizabeth's Children—Chapter 7. U... C....-cccccccecssccececscecsescesesenescenscanecenseecessetesseneneeeccoseneeesceneceOlive W. Burt 455 GENERAL FEATURES Firom "Nie@err) card Fenty oo crcpccrcteseseccascenceacavececaacostecovesecezoseseecnseeusucsosesuescecevavesseseuceeseancecsccersouoseasoouressescsvecsvoonsessencsecssserae 418 Sixty Years Ago ae 436 Marianne C. Sharp 438 _Hulda Parker 460 Editorial: Necessary Conditions for the Restoration of the Gospel. Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations 2..... C.. Ccceeeccseseececeecceecncesseccccneneeseccecececensenscssecensceseneecscececesseneceees a 488 FEATURES FOR THE HOME A House for Living |Olive A. Hanks 425 Recipes From the Western Canadian Mission 2.......... SscsccsssesscseesccscseeseesecseeeecseeeeesAnnie Ruth Larson 442 You Carn Sew—v. Pressing.......1.--ssscesccsecescstsenssssescctesencenscsesnsseenecoeececesccenenesseccsneeeJean Ridges Jennings 450 Mother Made Buckskin Gloves, Alice R. Rich 452 Clara Scoville Ware Crochets Exquisite Designs -.0......2...-cssesc-csssececececeececeeeoeccceceeeceneeneceeneeeeeeeeescsneeeecene454 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology—"*... He That Hath Eternal Life Is Rich" Roy W. Doxey 464 = Teacher Messages — ''Yea, Whosoever Will Thrust in His Sickle and Reap, the Same Is Called of God"' Christine H. Robinson 469 Work Meeting — Homemaking Is the Administrative Side of Family Living rcVesta Barnett 471 Literature — The American Dream Briant S. Jacobs 473 Social Science — The Family Ties. John Farr Larson 479 POETRY It Was the Common Things — FrontispieCe -.......... S. SsssscesseeseeseseeseccoeeeeseoeessElsie McKinnon Strachan 417 Summer Growing SE nn cnacsiesenvenovooeeLinnie Fisher Robinson 424 On Full-Sunned Dah _ Amy Viau 425 With Weight of Years 7...... Atace Ingles Frost 432 L055 005 610 (ec I ~ Patricia Lentz 439 Key, tO Wisdom..... N.......0-. Ccsceesaseateen-nsnsnteoscenasnsatttsdcasnaneensacessasuasauestsbassencecssenensuarasisstesseeneveoteIda Elaine James 441] With You Away i sesseeeeseeeeeseeeeENOla Chamberlin 443 BeqQuet -2........ Cccsececceeeeeecceseeceosecseeeeseoeees isti From the Old Days Night Flight.............. Ee ee. =... AePansye H. Powell 459 Where Jesus Walked o. O.. Cc..... CccccccscecececececeececececeesesesesenescessouneescanecccescecernseceateensesRemelda Nielsen Gibson 463 Gathering Driftwood... Am = -Maude Rubin 470 FREPOGE) otrencseces. Ctevevscnssettetecnecnssesvanensserncnscnesabiee Catherine B. Bowles 478 Infinity Speaks —— a.. Mabel Law Atkinson 486 Pamela Is Two........ Ee... Cea oon ESAS iicas enedEthel Jacobson 488 Pioneer Bonnet a 00 Eee ret te esicacen ne svessisest®.... Filindia S. Huff 488 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Woman's Spe re onee.. Scescescecsceeceneencesessnsenscsseceasessscsceasenenscscssenscecesenseccesees Ramona W. Cannon 437 Love at Home Leah D. Widtsoe F you were asked a serious question: "What is the greatest need in the world today?" what would be your answer? We all know that the world is in great need of a universal stabilizing influence— and humanity in general is seeking by fair means or foul to find an answer. 'There are wars and rumors of wars floating all around us. Indeed, there are "brush wars" socalled in many parts of the world, on the Eastern and Western Continents. In our own country, some of the leaders are warning that utter destruction is in sight, while others are calling for "Peace" — but there is no peace! One may well ask, "Must this be the condition of humanity indefinitely?" What would be your solution to this great overall problem — the world's greatest need? Is there no answer, or may it be sought and found? There are so many negative forces which are destructive, and increasing in activity. Even in our own midst these evils give cause for grave concern. We know, in general, our people are worthy citizens and that our youth, in the majority, will develop into worthwhile men and women. What disturbs national and state authorities and thinking people everywhere is that mental and physical illness, divorce, delinquency, and crime are on the increase. When it is known that crime costs our nation more than twenty billion dollars a year, that its cost is greater than any other cost of government, save only that of preventing or paying for war; and that the cost of illness (mental and Page 420 physical) is almost beyond computation; then all must realize that it is time for people to wake up and realize that something must be done to stem the evils resulting therefrom. The United States Senate Judiciary Sub-committee reports after four years of hearings and study, that if present trends continue, a million juvenile delinquents will be brought before the courts, annually, by 1965. Governor Clyde of Utah recently told the State Council on Child and Youth Fitness: "I am gravely concerned over the softness and growing disrespect for parents, school authorities, and law and_ order, found among our youth today." All authorities agree that the best place to prevent these evils is with the impressionable minds of childhood and youth. It cannot be done by having more policement or social agencies, nor with money to provide activities to cure delinquency, but it must somehow be prevented rather than to stumble along with attempts to cure these evils when, in too many cases, the mischief has been done and cure is next to impossible. That brings us right back to the home and parents. If children have the right training in their homes and their schools, they are prepared for their own great responsibilities as parents. We train them for every other profession, why not for the greatest one of all—that of making worthy homes and becoming wise parents? Better homes, not costlier ones, and wiser parents is the ulti mate answer. Is there any other? LOVE AT HOME HIS is the month of July when our people celebrate two great days of our history — Independence Day, July 4th, and July 24th, the day when our stalwart ancestors entered the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. Let our memory or imagination carry us back to those early days when the steam engine was a novelty; when ailroads, electric lights, telegraph, telephones, automobiles, radio, and television were but figments of man's wildest dreams. 'The story is told of a wide-eyed, astonished Chinese coolie who having his first glimpse of a cable-car running up and down the steep hills of San Francisco, exclaimed excitedly, "No push-ee, no pull-ee, all-ee sam-ee go like —ee!"" At that time our people in these valleys were still driving their "prairie-schooners" with oxteams or mules, with horses for the few more comfortably fixed families. How did they live in those days? Were they worried about divorce, juvenile delinquency, and crime? Did they lie, fight, or quarrel; were there thefts and murders as there are by children today? Not as we hear of them constantly, even in our own towns and villages. Of course, being human they were subject to envy and jealousy; they had _ their difficulties and were harassed by prowling Indians, and lawless adventurers which we escape today. As in every age, there were good and bad people and all shades of in-between characters. No one can dispute that. But they had a prized possession which made evil-doing rare and most disgraceful. The great gift was an almost universal family-unity which gave great stability and mitigated 421 much of the sorrows, and assured most of the pleasures and amusements of the day. I remember well my own childhood, how my parents on the '"'Glorious" Fourth and Twenty-fourth helped the children make a huge freezer full of ice-cream (not too much cream!) and how the whole neighborhood was invited in for the evening (after the parade and "great doings" of the day) to watch the huge pile of fireworks which my parents had purchased, with the help of some few "savings" of the children, then to feast and visit until all were tired and ready for bed. Of course, there were illness and accidents and death, to which all of us were heir, but that must be expected in every community in any age. Our Sundays were family days, after and between church sessions, with always a special Sunday dinner. Then in the afternoon the family would gather for a drive in the "'surrey with the fringe on top" to visit grandparents. If there was no surrey or horse in the barn, there was always a good "pair of Shanks Ponies" that all possessed, for walking was good exercise for all excepting tiny ones who had their go-carts. There also come happy memories of an occasional Friday evening when "the crowd" was invited home for an evening of fun and frolic. The children would scour the neighborhood for armfuls of extra peach or lovely apple blossoms to decorate the house. Mother would help the children clear out the living rooms of all furniture, even the organ or piano would be shifted to a side room, and out would go the rugs, so the evening could be spent in jolly dancing — not with just one 422 partner all evening, dancing "cheek to cheek." Sister's boy friends or brother's pals would often ask Mother to dance, for she was having as much fun as her young people and so was Father. Oh, those happy days! Memory recalls that the real joy of it all was that the family members were together — sharing problems and pleasures and all the experiences of life. So, were I to give an answer for a possible cure for the world's unrest and its many problems, I would give the simple answer that Jesus gave a Pharisee who asked him: Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets (Mt. 22:36-40). This is the true and complete cure of all the world's problems and troubles and sorrows. It was the answer then, in Jesus' day; it is the answer in our day. It sounds very simple, doesn't it? But it is very general. How does one learn to love the Lord? At Mother's knee as one is taught the first approach to "Our Father which art in heaven." But before the little one can conceive of love for Father in heaven, he must know and love earthly parents. This is and should be instinctive, but of course, fathers and mothers must be lovable. Love must be spontaneous; it cannot be forced or demanded. Next, how does one learn to "love thy neighbour as_ thyself?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 That, too, sounds very simple, but is too general. 'There must be a beginning and that is to learn first to love those with whom one is surrounded, one's parents, first, then the family, and later one's close associates; then one's near neighbors, and after that one's worldneighbors—all of them, for they are all God's children, his family. And, oh, it is such fun to love — it gives one such inner warmth and glow and lends such glamor and joy to every moment of life. To love gives one the power to spread happiness and sunshine to everyone around the loved one; while to hate gives one a feeling of black despair, with all the sunshine and joy of life removed. The pity of it is that hate hurts worse the one who hates, not the one who is hated. "THE Grand Answer then, to all the world's troubles is that people must make good homes and learn to love. To understand as well as to love is essential — and especially to have love at home. The home is the keynote and the beginning of joy and happiness, of stability and progress, and of health or illness or of the opposite conditions. A pertinent remark of President Eisenhower is quoted by his son: "I learned from Dad that it is important to listen to, to talk to, and share experiences with your children." So much unhappiness begins in the home where parents do not fully understand the consequences of daily acts. I recall a young mother who, trying to provide the best for her young child, bought toys galore and many fancy colored things (ducks, small boats, and oth- LOVE AT HOME er floating toys) to amuse the child while in the bathtub. One day she bought for herself a pair of fancy, gay, many-colored high-heeled slippers. They were left on the floor, and next day after the child was taken out of the tub, the mother was called to the phone. 'The little one, playing around, spied — Mother's fancy slippers, picked them up, and threw them into the tub to see them float around with the other toys. One can well imagine what happened when mother found her slippers in the tub! I can still hear the screams of the poor little child who didn't know for what she was punished. Who really needed the punishment, the mother who should have put her slippers where they belonged, or the tiny child? So many acts of injustice to children can build up in their minds the feeling that father or mother is unfair or unjust and someday they are going to get even. Children make many mistakes, and certainly need discipline, even punishment at times but parents should understand that it takes many years for the child to arrive at the adult point of view. 'They should understand this and make one rule to guide their dealings with their children: Never punish when angry; wait until you have "cooled down" and have tried to understand why the child did the wrong thing. If parents would observe this rule, there would be much more joy in daily life in the home. A child is naturally imitative — he learns that way and always gives back to parents what they give him. If it is slaps and blows "when the parents are annoyed or angry, that is what the child will return to them and 423 to others. That is the great reason why parents and children should be fed proper food that builds and feeds the brain and nerves as well as muscles and bones. 'Then, with proper sleep and exercise, they need not be nervous and irritable. Our pioneer, Brigham Young, set us a wonderful example here. His daughter Susa states: The world knows Brigham Young as a statesman and colonizer; but to his children he was an ideal father, kind to a fault, tender, thoughtful, just, and firm. He spoke but once and none were so daring as to disobey. That his memory is almost worshipped by all who bear his name is an eloquent tribute to his character. None of us feared him; all of us adored him. If the measure of a man's greatness is truly given by Carlyle, as bounded by the number of those who love him and who were loved by him, then few men are as great as was my father, Brigham Young. What his life and love meant to his family only their subsequent lives may testify. What he did as State-founder and Commonwealth builder, only the pages of history may imperfectly recall. A more intimate personal picture is given by the leader himself: "T will relate a little of my course and experience in my family. I have a large family of children, many of them small, and yet I do not think that you ever saw even four children in one family live together with so little contention. Watch them, and their conduct will prove that there is a good spirit influencing them. You may ask how I manage to bring this result. I seldom give a child a cross word; I seldom give a wife a cross word; and I tell my wives never to give a child cause to doubt their word' (Wuprsoe, Lean D: Brigham Young, the Man of the Hour, Bookcraft, 1946, page 141). USBANDS and wives have much responsibility in setting the pattern for love at home. They should 424 understand that marriage is just the beginning and not the end of courtship and romance. 'lhe honeymoon should never cease; it may and should last through life and throughout eternity. Love grows by expression, not by hiding it under a bushel. If romance is fed and cherished, a continuing joy in the partnership is sure to follow. In such a home children will feel the charm and respond to the togetherness of the family. A child reared in such an environment will never be able to say: "I'd faint if I ever saw my father kiss my mother, and I'd wonder if he was ill"' No husband would ever be able to say as one is reported to have said when he lost his wife, and a friend trying to comfort, him remarked: 'Well, Sam, you must admit that Sarah was a good woman." "Yes," said Sam, "she was a good woman and I nearly told her so once!" Nor would a wife be able to say when at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 a dinner party, she asked her hostess: "Don't place me by my husband, he crimps my style! I'm never my best around him!" Husbands and wives would do well to remember that if they can't say something good about one another, say nothing. That's a good tule to follow for all loved ones and for friends and neighbors. So may we say that the cure of the world's ills is very simple to state but difficult to practice? It is a challenge to all of us but may he learned and enjoyed if one has the will to do it. 'hat cure is love, and it has its beginning in Love at Home. If, in our family relations, we make it a sacred duty to look for the good in each other instead of constantly harping on faults and weaknesses, our home life will be more serene and joyous. 'Then if we will extend that practice to our friends and neighbors — oh, what a happy world this could be! > Summer Growing Linnie Fisher Robinson The sun beats down its long and steady rays Urging a greater strength of twig and root; Purple begins along the plum's green rim And cherries load the tree with luscious fruit. From denser shade I note the birdlings' cries As food is brought to meet their mounting needs; And I turn water to a thirsting tree And pull away the clinging, choking weeds. I seek the shade wherein my child is sleeping, Almost too large for his small crib and toys, With apple blossom glow upon his face, For summer days are growing days for boys. Oh, may I never quench his inward growing And keep the weeds away from God's bestowing. A House for Living Olive A. Hanks I came down the road from my daughter's home—we live in the country—as the day was fading from the sky. The few, long cloud-streamers in the west were a rosy hue, and just above the glow, the evening star shone as sparkling and bright as if it were some jewel in the sky. Directly above my head, the moon, at first-quarter, shone brightly. As I walked across the lawn, I saw the house loom darkly against a backdrop of sky and leafless trees. Leaves rustled under my feet, and I remembered the afternoon of this day. It had been golden with sunshine on the new-fallen maple leaves. I said aloud, "This is my home and I love it." Styles in houses change rapidly. Folks are now building bigger fireplaces, larger window's, low roofs, patios, and at night you catch glimpses of beautiful interiors as you pass rapidly in the street. Did you ever wonder where the money comes from with which to build such spacious, luxurious homes? As I look at them, I see again the homes "'across the tracks." There is always an "'across the tracks' in every town of any size. No matter how costly other houses may be or how expensive their furniture, I am determined to be content with my own. We built our "new" house at the back of the old one eight years after we were married. Four of the children were born in the old and four in the new. I walked through the "new" house when it was under construction and dreamed of the curtains I would hang, the color schemes of the different rooms. I loved the bedrooms, so light and airy, where sunlight came through the windows at some time during the day. The piano would stand in this wall space; the window seat placed between the bookcases, would be filled with colorful sofa pillows. Houses have changed in style since that time, but the years have filled our home with light and laughter and song and tears. I love our house for the morning sun through French doors; I love it for the shelter it affords against the storms of winter and all the comfort it has brought to all of us under its roof; for the dining room, with the table surrounded by happy faces; for the footsteps on the stairs.... I love it for what it has been, what it is now, and for what I hope to keep it. I am content. This is my home and I love it. On Full-Sunned Path Amy Viau As you walk forward On a full-sunned path, Allow no chilling thought of shadowy hour To assail you. Look not for pitfalls As though the Shepherd is not leading; Look high— As to greening mountains and the stars. As breaths of spacious air enfold you With confidence, behold God's universe Remembering he loves you. Page 425 She Westie? Candéion Tikseion Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Western Canadian Mission was formed by the First Presidency in September 1941, with Walter Miller of Taber, Alberta, Canada, as the first president. 'The mission territory at first included all the province of Alberta north of the city of Calgary. A few weeks after he was called, President Miller established the headquarters of the mission in Edmonton, where, with the help of N. Eldon Tanner, President of the Edmonton Branch, he purchased a mission home, The first missionaries called to labor in the new mission were Keith D. Miller, Myron L. Western Jr., James B. Skidmore, Stanford S. Larson, Quayle M. Waddell, and Albert S. Johnson. Active proselyting was begun and has continued since that time. In December 1942 the Province of Saskatchewan was added to the Western Canadian Mission. President Miller was released as president of the mission in March 1945, and Joseph Y. Card of Cardston, Alberta, Canada, was appointed as his successor. President Card presided until May 1947, when he was released on account of illness. He was succeeded by Glen G. Fisher. In 1947, the Province of British Columbia was transferred from the Northwestern States Mission to the Western Canadian Mission, under the direction of Joseph F. Merrill of the Council of the Twelve. President RE oe 4 4 British Government Photograph Submitted by Annie Ruth Larson INNER HARBOR, VICTORIA, BRITISH COLUMBIA Page 426 THE WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION 427 British Government Photograph Submitted by Annie Ruth Larson HAIRTRIGGER LAKE ON FORBIDDEN PLATEAU WESTERN CANADA Glen G. Fisher was released in December 1951, and was succeeded by R. Scott Zimmerman. President David O. McKay visited the Western Canadian Mission in July 1954, and at Vancouver B. C., dedicated a new chapel. President R. Scott Zimmerman was released in January 1956 and was succeeded by Moroni Larson, Jr. President Larson has recently been released and will be succeeded by Parley A. Arave of Blackfoot, Idaho. In December 1957 there were 6,154 members of the Church in the Western Canadian Mission, located in twenty-seven branches. Thirty-eight Relief Society organizations, with 768 members, were reported in December 1957. Annie Ruth Larson who has presided over the Western Canadian Mission Relief Society since 1956, will be succeeded by Lila Anderson Arave. Note: The cover for this Magazine, 'Lake Louise in the Canadian Rockies, Alberta, Canada," is reproduced from a photograph by Josef Muench. See also "Recipes From the Western Canadian Mission," by Annie Ruth Larson, page 442. "Not to the Swift" CHAPTER 1 Deone R. Sutherland C HICAGO roared past the windows of the "elevated" train. Bleak, dark buildings, differing from their neighbors only in slight variations of size, some taller, some thinner, but all dirty, were the only "view." Julie and her mother had often talked of moving to a cleaner suburb, but, after all, her mother worked down in the Loop, and it was more difficult for her mother to get to work than for Julie to commute to school. 'The elevated had merged with the subway now, and the lights of the long tunnel shot past the window in bright blurs. Julie decided she would have to quit dreaming, or she'd pass her station and have to walk back. She gave a shiver of pleasure as she could hear "Musetta's Waltz" from La Boheme singing in her mind. She became so tired of singing for Madame Heinrich again and again the same thing over. It was her stop! Julie barely had time to duck through the door before the train was clanging away again underneath the city. The trains never lost a moment loading or unloading the vast number of people who traveled to and fro beneath the great city. Julie checked her books and music and wallet. Yes, everything was there. The people were pushing past her. She moved with the crowd, up the stairs, into the city. "Valse di Musetta" by Puccini— her favorite melody from the whole opera, she whispered to herself. Were there really to be no more Page 428 afternoons in Madame Heinrich's dreary flat practicing and practicing? After a year spent in private study, she was in school now. She was really registered in a big musical school in a great university with young people who had the same love of music. She felt a moment's sadness, for Madame Heinrich had been good to her. She had been fond of Julie, and had treated her almost like a daughter. She had showed her through her thick album of her own concert days when she appeared at the Stattssoper in Vienna and the Deutsche Stattssoper in Berlin. The trunk, with the faded relics and bits of finery, fans and laces from costumes, were as familiar to Julie as the small threeroom apartment that she and her mother shared. Her mother would not yet be home from work. There was no use in ringing. Julie unlocked the outside door, closed it carefully behind her, and walked up the three flights to their apartment. Why did so many of these old apartment houses always have the same dark red carpeting for the halls and stairs? She vaguely remembered a different kind of life in childhood, but try as she might, those memories had become very dim. She stopped at the door and took out her key. How lonely the apartment house was. Even as a child she had found few friends. That was the advantage of living here, her mother had told her. "It will be quiet for your practicing, no distractions. Of course, "NOT TO THE SWIFT" you can't practice after ten, but that's to be expected in an apartment." The farm that she remembered from her babyhood had been quiet, too. But she had never been lonely out West. Perhaps because her father had been alive, life had not been lonely then. Even the distant mountains had seemed friendly, and the wide fields, also, she somehow remembered. She had viewed them often from the top of her father's shoulders. He had seemed as tall as a mountain, but she had always felt safe on her lofty perch. When her father had died, those days ended. Her mother hadn't wanted to stay out West. Her daughter, her mother said, was going to take up the career she had never had, but had wanted. JeLe opened the windows against the mustiness of the apartment. Her mother had such ambitions for her. Perhaps she didn't have as much talent as her mother thought. She shivered and looked back at the music she had tossed on the couch that served as a couch in the daytime and a bed for Julie in the evening. The music reassured her. The melody sang again in her mind. She would play it through just once. The piano was the only possession of real value the Markhams owned. The beautiful Steinway dwarfed the entire apartment. Julie approached the piano with love. She was aware of the sacrifices a widow with a small child had made to afford a piano like this. She would just go through the song once; she wouldn't even sing. Well, maybe she would just sing it through once softly. Why should she feel such longing at this melody? If she were a real musician 429 she would prefer possibly.... She leaned her head against the music and looked out the window. It must be the fall weather that made her feel so emotional, the leaves turning orange and brown, the sharp coolness in the air in the early morning. 'The campus was another world away from the rumble of the center of the city. She would be spending all her days in that world of trees and rolling lawns and music.... That must account for the longing she was feeling. The buzzer sounded, and she jumped to her feet with a start. Quickly she pushed the button to unlock the front door and let her mother in. She dashed into the kitchen and pulled on her apron. She hadn't even been practicing really, just dreaming. 'There was enough of the ham and potato casserole from last night to do. She lighted the oven and slid the dish in. She jerked open the refrigerator and pulled out the lettuce and green onions. Now if there was just one tomato left. There was, she sighed with relief. The door bell rang; her mother had come slowly up the stairs tonight. She must have had a hard day. Julie ran to open the door for her. Mary Markham was a legal secretary. She had had drive and ambition, and when she had been faced with rearing a child alone, she had brought forth a courage she didn't know she possessed. She had had typing and shorthand in high school, but most of her time had been spent on voice lessons and piano. Her own mother had been a music teacher, and she had had high hopes for her only daughter. 'Then Mary had met the missionaries. She had gone West, but there had been no mu- 430 sical jobs out there to find. So she had ended with a job as a filing clerk in a firm. Her letters to her mother in the East were returned unopened. NE day Mary had met the cousin of her employer, Ralph Markham. If she had not met him, she pondered sometimes, would she have returned to her mother? But Ralph Markham became the reason for every sacrifice. She had seen the farm before she and Ralph were married, but love had closed her eyes to everything unpleasant. Mary hadn't foreseen the long days of hard work, the birth of a daughter with no relatives to exclaim over the pretty blue eyes and fair hair. She had felt like an outsider in the ward, but perhaps she hadn't tried to be friendly. Mary sighed; it was so long ago. No doubt she had made many mistakes. There had been no money for a piano, and in the hot days, Mary had quit feeling like singing. But then little Julie had opened her sweet mouth and followed the trilling of the meadow lark in perfect imitation. Mary thought then that she wouldn't be able to stand it, if Julie didn't have the opportunities she had so carelessly thrown away. The nightmare of the accident and Ralph's death had been more than Mary thought she could stand. She had dried Julie's six-year-old tears and packed their few belongings. 'The little insurance Ralph had left, had taken them back to Chicago and kept them long enough for Mary to take a course, in order to find a well-paying job where she could support Julie. She had had to find a woman to keep an eye on folie after school, but somehow had » RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 those things worked out. Mary's mother died, never quite forgiving Mary for "throwing away her life," but she did leave her a little money that went toward the Steinway and Julie's first lessons. Mary Markham glanced in the oval mirror by the front hall closet. Her gray hair looked neat and cool, and she didn't look as old as she felt. Perhaps she wouldn't have to worry about the new young secretary the law offices had hired. It had been hard to hear Mr. Thayer remark on how alert and quick the new secretary had seemed in regard to catching on to office procedures. Mary's expression hadn't changed, but the clutch of fear had been there. She had seen too many older women have to step down. Everything in life was temporary, it seemed. Still, she glanced at her face critically, perhaps she was safe for a few years yet. "Are you tired, Mother?" Julie's freshness made her shiver again. She was old. Too old to compete with these young things. Julie was radiant. Mary put her problems aside. Julie would be brimming over with the news of school and her new professors. All her hopes lay in Julie, and she looked at the blue eyes and the fair hair and the promise that Julie had. "Mother, dinner's not quite ready, but go ahead with your shower. Everything will be on by the time you're finished. Wasn't the city dirty today?" Julie didn't know why she babbled so. Her mother was looking at her oddly. She wanted to tell her mother how wonderful school was, but she couldn't just yet. She wanted to keep the feeling to herself just a little while longer. "NOT TO THE SWIFT" "Very well, Julie," her mother said drily. 'There, she had hurt her mother's feelings, the person she wanted to take care of always, the person she wanted to keep safe from everything. So she told her mother about the campus and each class and showed her her music. She sang while her mother played '"Musetta's Waltz," and her mother nodded her head with approval. Dinner was very late, so Julie washed up while her mother showered. After she was in bed, she could remember everything for herself again. N Sunday morning Julie sang as a soloist for a church out on North Michigan Avenue. In_ this way she had been able to help out quite a bit toward her own lessons and now with tuition, but the time conflicted with her Church services. Then just two weeks after she had started at the University, Julie saw a notice on the bulletin board in the music school. It said student members of the L. D. S. Church were going to organize a club and a time and place on the campus were set for the first meeting. When the ward teachers came, she told them about it. They told her that their ward had grown so it was being divided. 'Iwo wards would now be using their chapel, so the time for one Sunday School would be later. Would she be able to come to Sunday School now at this later time? "If I caught the elevated immediately after I finish singing, I could be out to the ward by eleven," she said happily. "That's good," her mother agreed, "but don't try to do too much, you can't give up your work, for we need the money, and the experience you gain as a soloist is good. But 431 I'm glad you won't have to miss Sunday School any longer." But the next week Julie hadn't been able to make the first club meeting after all. Dr. Rossi had kept her after class, but she decided she would go for sure to the very next one. And she was going to Sunday School on Sunday. On Sunday morning she asked her mother to meet her, so they could go out to Sunday School together. "T don't think I'd better try it this week," her mother answered regretfully. "I'm extra tired for some reason; I'll need some extra rest to get through the coming week." "If you'd rather I didn't go...." Julie offered doubtfully. She was wearing her new tan tweed suit flecked with bronze, and her tiny hat had a brown feather curling forward. Her hair was blond gold against the brown of her hat. She was eager to be on her way. Mary Markham smiled and teassured her daughter, "I'll be all nght, but you hurry home after Sunday School. Id feel better if you were nding with someone." "But I don't know anyone anymore," Julie smiled back. "I'll be all right." She hurried down the carpeted stairs. She passed a woman coming up, but the woman kept her eyes averted politely. It was funny, Julie thought, how people could live in the same building, year after year, and never know each other. When she was little, there had been a lady who lived downstairs who gave her cookies, but most people kept to themselves. The air was cool, the smell of fall everywhere. Autumn was Julie's favorite time of the year in Chicago. 432 She transferred to the bus. How much nicer it was out of the city. The ride out on the elevated hadn't been too bad, and her singing had been excellent this morning, she had been told. She thought how much prettier this chapel was than that little hall they had met in when she had first gone to Sunday School as a child. Now that she was almost there, Julie suddenly felt shy. Her mother would have marched right in, but Julie hesitated under the trees and stirred the leaves with her foot. They were singing, so she was a little late for all her hurrying. Maybe she'd better just go home; it wasn't fair to leave her mother alone, anyway. 'Then she began to hear the words of the song. Why, it was about the mountaintops. It was one of her favorite hymns. "T hope you're coming in here to church?" Julie looked in surprise and recognition. It was Mr. Carlson from the music school. She had been assigned to one of his sections for special voice lessons. He was studying for his Ph. D. And teaching on a fellowship. Surely, he couldn't belong to the Church, too. He had begun to smile at her surprise and confusion. = RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 "I belong here, sort of... Stammered. "T wondered where our prize pupil really came from. I should have known with a voice like yours, you'd be from out home...." He was drawing her up the steps. "But I really am almost a stranger.... I mean I've missed so many times." Julie's face flushed again. She didn't want to have him ac cepting her under false pretenses. He stopped and smiled at her. "All right then," he said, "we can begin as strangers here together, that is if anyone can feel like a stranger anywhere in our Church. You know, this is my first quarter back here, too, so we can get acquainted with everyone together. Agreed?" There was no time to answer, because the door was being held open, and Mr. Carlson guided her into a bench and sat beside her. 'The organ was playing again, and Mr. Carlson was offering to share the book. She took hold of the edge, and as the type settled into words and bars of music, she began to sing with all the others, "Oh, ye mountains high...." (To be continued ) " Julie With Weight of Years Grace Ingles Frost We, who bear the weight of many years, Know not, for us, what each new day may hold, But we remember joys long past, and fold Their memories about the present hours, As we would weave a garland of rare flowers. Their remembrance makes time now to seem Like bright effulgence of an after-gleam That at the day's end graces mountain height To bring the soul more near to heavenly light, And thoughts of him whose brilliance is supreme— Who gives us patience to await his will and dream Of time that was and of life yet to be. She Olympian Rain Forest Dorothy ]. Roberts EEP in the wilderness of the Olympian Peninsula in the State of Washington, we found the Rain Forest on the Hoh River. Here truly was Longfellow's "forest primeval," where The murmuring pines and the hemlocks Bearded with moss, and in garments green, indistinct in the twilight, Stand like Druids of eld.... One road to the Rain Forest winds around the south and west sides of the Olympian Peninsula — United States Highway 101. This road can be reached from Portland, Oregon, by way of the scenic Columbia River route to Astoria and the sea, where there are delightful beaches, thence by ferry across the outlet of the Columbia River, and by highway again to Hoquiam and Aberdeen, then up the coast and inland again. The fifty miles of ocean strip is one of the most primitive remaining in the country, majestic and serene, and filled with rare wild life. Watch for the sign on the east side of the road which reads "Rain Forest." 'Take the nineteenmile, good graveled road, along the Hoh River, to the ranger station, where the Rain Forest one-mile Nature Trail begins and ends. Plan to reach this trail before noon, or as near as possible to the middle of the day, in order to view the forest depths in the most revealing light, and have time enough to complete the trip without haste. When you return from the Rain Forest Trail to Highway 101, you can go back as you came, or go on around the peninsula of the Olympic National Park, a loop of about two hundred miles or more, with Port Angeles, on the Strait of Juan de Fuca, at the top. This port has a ferry to famous Victoria in Canada. Another scenic approach road follows United States Highway 410 from Lewiston, Idaho, to Walla Walla, Washington, through Pasco, Richland, and Yakima to Mount Rainier and on to Puyallup and Olympia and the excellent highway that follows the east border of the Olympic National Park along the Hood Canal. The Olympic National Forest is open the year around, but August and September are perhaps the most desirable months to visit this preserve where the virgin rain forests of the Northwest Coast are protected and preserved for generations of those who have and will love the wilderness of woods. On the way to the forest we enjoyed miles of evergreens, including many lacy red cedars. Sometimes we followed the sea, where the setting sun haloed the waves' fine spume with gold. We passed through little towns and ate their fresh wild huckleberry pie, so rare and so delicious. FROM the ranger station in the Hoh River Rain Forest, on a clear bright morning in September, we walked a mile-long loop-trail through the most luxuriant forest in any temperate climate. Rain forests are usually found only in the rainy portions of the tropics. But the 130 to 150 inches of rainfall here, is more than in most tropical forests. The rain and the mild climate have formed for us this heartstirring wonder. Page 433 434 The forest appears ever luminous even in the rain, because of the light reflected from the pale green mosses and other green plants spread under LR ee. 2 Poi ete Courtesy Olympic National Park VIEW IN THE OLYMPIAN RAIN FOREST RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 the towering trees. But watch your light meter in photographing; the light is deceiving. We had to lean far back to see the soaring heights wes THE OLYMPIAN RAIN FOREST of the venerable Sitka spruce, the western hemlock, and the giant Douglas fir, the largest tree in the western hemisphere except for the Sequoia. All were hung with long, soft, waving mosses, centuries old. The ages lie revealed here where life is continuous. We saw made manifest the unbroken chain of existence. <A giant tree falls, and in its rotting log, a family of seedlings spring up in a row. Only on this ancestor can they survive against the dense ground plants and grow into monarchs themselves. They, in turn, after their allotted centuries of life, fall, to provide sustenance and life for the next generation. The seedlings are mainly Sitka spruce and western hemlock, which are native to the rain forest. <A nurse log will sustain both kinds of seedlings on a single log. When the nurse log is finally consumed and rotted away, the new trees straddle its resting place in a long row. The largest Sitka spruce here is 300 feet high, with a circumference of twenty-five and an eighth feet, and is 800 years old. The Douglas firs, though some of the most tremendous trees, are only minority members of the Rain Forest, for only a few of them can teproduce in the dense shade. This is more than a forest of trees. It is a whole community of trees, shrubs, plants, ferns, mosses, lichens, fungi, and microscopic organisms; animals, big and small, all living and dying in a fine balance of relationship with their environment. Creatures from insects to elk make the forest their home. We saw a squirrel and later three black bears padding down the road. Birds, if 435 they cannot always be seen, can be heard — wrens, thrushes, woodpeckers, robins, jays, chickadees, hawks, and even eagles. N the carpet of mosses and liverworts about 100 species have been found—some so rare they are known only to scientists. Most of the mosses could thrive only under the high, torn umbrella of the forest. Above this green carpet, among other plants, the graceful vine maples, draped with curtains of moss, beautify the forest. A lighter area of the forest, where the sun can sift through, is the "Hall of Mosses,"' a grove of bigleaf maple, draped with flowing beards of moss. There are eighteen species of mosses alone. Ferns grow on the slopes, on the trunks of the trees, and even in their lofty crowns, 250 feet above the earth. 'The fungus seen on the dead tree stumps, is only the fruiting part of the fungus. The greater part of it spreads inside the stump in filaments feeding on the wood. Though there are many kinds of fungi — mushrooms, moulds, mildews, and bacteria, these are mainly saprophytes here. 'They live on the dead plants and, by devouring them, return them to the soil. Without this process the forest would be crowded with dead trees. Death and decay are as natural as life and growth. The Olympian Peninsula is one of the few wildernesses left in the United States, and the Rain Forest on the Hoh River is one of its many attractions. Farther inland are other primitive areas of plant and animal life which we hope to visit on another trip. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL NaTIONS" VISIT TO SAN LUIS STAKE: We held meetings in Morgan and Richfield and Eastdale, the last twenty-five miles away across the Rio Grande River over which has been built a stupendous iron bridge. The drive to Eastdale was most interesting and there were novelties to be seen in Spanish and Mexican houses.... Eastdale is beautifully situated and at present prosperous under the direction of Bishop Jenson who seems to possess the elements of character necessary for colonizing. We enjoyed this place very much, held two meetings.... We left early in the morning and drove near to a rugged mountain on the borders of New Mexico, en route we saw several wolves who seemed very bold and fleet of foot.... We reached Manassa as we supposed in time for an afternoon meeting, but were surprised to find a banquet had been prepared instead in the new hall just purchased by the sisters there for the use of the Relief Society.... —Emmeline B. Wells THE MOTHERS' CONGRESS: The Mothers' Congress which was held in the Assembly Hall in this city commencing June 30, and closing July 2, was a complete success, and being the first of its kind in the West, demonstrated the fact that Western women are alive to the best interests and welfare of the nation of which they are an important part.... The Latter-day Saints have ever been alive upon the question of motherhood, and through the Council of Health and the Relief Society... Have been inculcating the knowledge and insisting upon the holiness of this condition, and its manifold duties and responsibilities. —Editorial Note A VISION Evening's shades around me fall, and hush the great world's hum; Quiet pervades in vales of peace, as glints the setting sun. Only the wind's soft murmuring song is borne on the ambient air; While musing I sit and ponder long, on the fate of all things fair.... —Lydia D. Alder SALT LAKE STAKE ENCOURAGES A CLASS FOR NURSES: Counselor A. T. Hyde welcomed the sisters and stated that President M. I. Horne had been thrown from a buggy and was bruised about the face, but hoped she would be able to meet with us yet; also spoke of the nursing class and requested President E. S. Taylor... To state her feelings in regard to the class. Sister Taylor said she thought the movement a grand one. "To think that one hundred and fifty of our sisters can obtain a good training to enable them to nurse the sick and also to nurse their own families skillfully. I am proud that some of our young ladies have volunteered to take this course of study. A nurse should love to do good, love those around her and be cheerful in the presence of the sick. Many of you may never be called upon to nurse the poor, but should you, your heart should be so generous that you will be willing to bless others, then you will have the greater remuneration...." —L. D. Alder, Act. Sec. Page 436 D®: HELENE TOOLAN of the Sloan - Kettering Institute in New York, is credited with significant and encouraging research towards finding an eventual anti-cancer vaccine. She has pin-pointed for the first time "the part of the cancer cell that is involved in an animal's defense against transplanted human cancer." MA48EL LAW ATKINSON, who has won awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem, and in Relief Society Short Story Contests, was recently awarded the first prize of $100 in the Minnesota Statehood Centennial Contest 1958. Mrs. Atkinson also received first honorable mention in the recent Franklin Pierre Davis Contest for poems on "everyday living." MERE than 5,000 women are employed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. They serve as laboratory assistants, technicians, translators, code and cipher examiners, telephone operators, _ secretaries, stenographers, clerks, and do many other kinds of detailed and important work. ISS) JEAN LISTEBARGER, second-grade teacher at the Edwards School in Ames, Iowa, is McCall's National Teacher of the Year for 1958. She challenges superior students with additional Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon assignments and personally helps the backward. She is convinced that children will read if they learn early to want to read. She teaches her twenty-seven students Spanish because young children pick up languages so easily. BBA MATHESIUS, formerly of Provo, Utah, and now at Geneva, Illinois, has written a delightful book for children, Ingeborg of Sweden. Published by Whittier Books, Inc. Of New York City, the book is inscribed "To the Children of America and to Those GrownUps Who Still Cherish 'Their Childhood Memories." The book narrates the adventures and home life of Ingeborg who lives on a large Swedish estate and participates joyously in the customs of her people. The author, a good friend to Latterday Saints, was born in Sweden and came to the United States in 1912. She is an accomplished lecturer and musician and the author of the pamphlet "Peace Is Made in the Minds of Men." "THEODORA C. STANWELLFLETCHER, a naturalist and a highly adventurous woman, in Clear Lands and Icy Sea (Dodd Mead and Company) gives a vivid picture of the Arctic beauty of southern Baffin Island and eastern Hudson Bay, and many interesting people connected therewith. Page 437 CQ EDITORIAL co VOL. 45 JULY 1958 NO. 7 Tlecessary Conditions for the Restoration of the OF significance to Latter-day Saints of whatever nationality with relation to the restoration of the gospel, are two paragraphs in the Dedicatory Prayer delivered by President David O. McKay at the New Zealand Temple. He prayed: We are grateful for the Constitution of the United States of America which permitted the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to be divinely established and which grants to every man the right to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience.... We are grateful that into the hearts of all Thou hast implanted the divine gift of free agency with the resultant consciousness of human dignity and thé assurance that each individual is precious in Thy sight. One is reminded of necessary conditions for the restoration of the gospel in the latter days and the part which the United States of America had in the restoration. From revealed scripture we learn that from the beginning the Western Hemisphere has been "a land of promise," "a land of liberty," a "land... Kept from the knowledge of other nations," a "land choice above all other lands." 'The garden of Eden was here. Three years prior to Adam's death he called "the residue of his posterity, who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and there bestowed upon them his last blessing... And notwithstanding he was bowed down with age Page 438 Gospel... Predicted whatsoever should befall his posterity unto the latest generation." Lehi declared "There shall none come unto this land save they shall be brought by the hand of the Lord." The warning also went "and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall serve God or they shall be swept off... For it is the everlasting decree of God" (Ether 2:7 ff.). In modern days the promised land was discovered by Columbus, a man among the Gentiles on whom "the Spirit of God" wrought and who "went forth upon the many waters." Lehi also observed that "the Spirit of God... Wrought upon other Gentiles and they went forth out of captivity... And they did prosper and obtain the land for their inheritance; and I beheld that they were white and exceeding fair and beautiful" and "did humble themselves before the Lord and the power of the Lord was with them" (I Nephi 13:12 ff.). The principle of free agency over which the war in heaven was fought fired the tinder which struck off 'The Declaration of Independence, whose 182d anniversary is observed this July 4th. In righteous wrath against injustices of the mother country, patriots began to forge the events which some years later resulted in the adoption of the Constitution of the United States EDITORIAL framcd by the "hands of wise men" whom the Lord declared he raised up "unto that very purpose." The Constitution, divinely inspired, bestowed freedom of religion on all those who lived under its provisions. 'The great plan for the restoration of the gospel in these latter days neared realization with its adoption. The land was sanctified by the shedding of blood and soon the great Prophet of the last dispensation was born in the promised Jand which had been prepared for the establishment of the gospel. The Government of the United States has had a vital role in the mission of the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth. In the present year when world conditions are uncertain and men's hearts fail them, it is well to recall the words of Lehi concerning the Gentiles who 439 prospered and obtained the land of their inheritance. One who would continue his inheritance must follow the pattern described by Lehi of the inheritors who "did humble themselves before the Lord and the power of the Lord was with them." Only through humility and worship of Christ as the God of this land will the United States of America continue to fulfill its destiny. Elder Matthew Cowley uttered words of prophetic portent:. I say thank God for the moral standards of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and if this country is ever defeated, it will be defeated by perversion within the country, by moral decay. There is no power outside the confines of this land which can defeat us, if we are strong in our righteousness. 'That is our armor and our shield (Matthew Cowley Speaks, page 283). —M. C.5S. —<i—eUnfulfilled Patricia Lentz Why is it that when music fills the air With sweet wild note, Tears brim my eyes and voiceless longing Swells my aching throat? Could I but sing! What ecstasy to loose The flood and burst the bonds That hold me fast and cruelly keep me mute! And why in springtime, like the rushing wings Of errant birds returning, Do memories to my heart's home flock unbidden And set me yearning, Till fires long banked far fall and winter's slow And steady consuming, Flare up and threaten to engulf me in their blast? Why does my spirit reject these mortal fetters And ever outward, upward soar, Disdaining to walk, and beat with such persistence Its wings against the very heaven's door? What hidden, desperate need goads me On through all earth's wanderings To return here at last, where I may be fulfilled? a ( by Father ' and Mother Be Honest with Yoursel Honor Shy Father and IMlother HE word honor is one of the richest in the language. It implies esteem, reverence, respect, courtesy, integrity, purity, chastity — and much more. "To honor" also requires obedience — to obey and respect those we would honor. The commandment "Honor thy father and thy mother" encompasses all of these, and it promises much for obedience. Paul called it "the first Page 440 commandment with a promise."" And what a promise, as we shall see! But first there's your part to be done, young men and young women of the Church. Let's begin with the little things. How long has it been, you teenaged daughter, since you took your mother in your arms and thanked her for life and the countless kind deeds she has performed for you since birth? Or you, son, when did you last thank Dad for food, clothing, home, education, the use of his car, and wise counsel? Do you, our sons and daughters, honor your parents in your choice of good companions, in your seen and unseen conduct, in Church attendance, in the sharing of home work, in self-improvement, in keeping the faith? These are the daily ways you can please and honor parents. And what are the rewards for honoring them? First, there's joy and inward satisfaction for you. These blessings come automatically. Then there's the Lord's special promise that you will "live long on the earth" and that "it may go well with you.' What a promise; what a prospect? T'o do less than to obey this commandment, to receive less in return, would be to deprive yourself of one of the richest experiences in life. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF >_> Key to Wisdom Ida Elaine James Waiting on the corner for his bus, Face so shiny-clean, meticulous In tingle of an early breeze, he stands; School book spread open in his eager hands, A frown of tenseness on his seeking face. What draws his eyes from all the fragrant grace That haunts the early morning? 'There must be, Enclosed in bookish covers, mystery Greater than birds' nests in the shadowy boughs, Whose songful tenants lack the skill to rouse His interest. Neither can the chattering squirrels Engage him, nor the cries of pretty girls. Authoritatively his book compels him! I cannot help but wonder what it tells him, Somewhere along the magic of its pages He seeks the key to wisdom of the ages, HONOR THY FATHER AND THY MOTHER 44] Recipes Grom the Wesern Ganaseans 1 lieen Submitted by Annie Ruth Larson Fis AND Cuips Clean fillets of fish (halibut or sole) and season with salt and pepper, sprinkle generously with lemon juice, then roll in flour and dip in a thin batter and fry at 360°F. In deep fat in a deep fat fryer. The lemon juice makes the flour cling to the fish and the flour makes the batter cling evenly. Serve fish with French-fried potatoes. Batter for Fish and Chips: 1 c. Sifted flour 24 c. Milk 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Butter, melted 2 eggs, beaten Sift flour and salt together. Add beaten eggs, milk, and butter and combine to make ' a smooth batter. STUFFED CABBAGE 1 cabbage, medium-sized 2 cans tomato soup 1 lb. Ground beef 1 onion, large 1 c. Uncooked rice seasonings Cook the cabbage whole until just tender. Fry meat with onion and seasonings. Mix rice and meat. Wrap meat mixture in the cooked cabbage leaves and brown in same skillet that was used to fry meat. The leaves should be nicely browned on all sides. Place stuffed leaves in casserole and pour tomato soup over them. Bake two hours in moderate oven. Soup may be diluted with milk if the soup is too thick. The stuffed cabbage should have a rich sauce and not be too dry. PickitE RE wIsH 8 large cucumbers Brine: 1 head cauliflower % ¢. Salt 12 large onions 4 c. Boiling water 2 red peppers ' Put cucumbers, cauliflower, onions, and peppers through food chopper. Soak thirty minutes in brine. Drain chopped vegetables for two or three hours. Dressing Ingredients: 8 c. Vinegar 1 tbsp. Celery seed 8 c. White sugar % c. Flour % c. Mustard % tbsp. Turmeric Cook all ingredients together for twenty minutes. Bottle and seal. SWEET AND SOUR SPARERIBS 2% Ibs. Spareribs 4c. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 4 ¢. Brown sugar 1 c. Tomato juice % tsp. Soy sauce (more if desired) wee Brown spareribs and pour off excess grease. Mix remaining ingredients together and pour over the spareribs and cook very slowly for three hours. Page 442 Rice for serving with Spareribs: 2 tbsp. Minced onion Mix these ingredients and then place in a cake tin or casserole and bake along with the spareribs. BROILED CHICKEN Cut up and prepare for cooking one chicken (fryer). Brush pieces of chicken with melted butter using a pastry brush. Roll in crushed potato chips. Place pieces on broiler rack and place in oven and bake one and one-half hours at 325°F. MeELtTiInc MoMENTS 2 c. Cake flour* _ Cream butter, add confectioner's sugar and flour. Drop in small quantities on baking sheet. Bake ten to fifteen minutes at 325°. Put together in sandwich form with icing. These cookies should be only about one inch in diameter when baked. This Tecipe is made easier in an electric mixer. Variations can be made by adding chopped nuts or fruits and making larger balls. Roll in powdered sugar after baking and before cooling. *All-purpose flour may be used by adding 2 tbsp. Cornstarch per cup and sifting thoroughly. >_< With You Away Enola Chamberlin I thought I could not bear to view The yellow daffodils, Nor watch the early grass of spring Make green the rain-black hills. I thought my heart would break when blooms Were on the apple tree, With sunlight dappled underneath And you not here to see. I thought the rose and violet Would put my peace to rout; That I would have to seal my room To keep their perfume out. But I was so prepared for these, Had such a courage gained, That they had come and gone and still My fortitude remained. Until about an hour ago, When near the west porch wall, I found the treasured knife you lost While pruning vines last fall. RECIPES FROM THE WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION % c. Rice salt to taste % |b. Butter 443 2 tbsp. Butter 1% c. Boiling water 2 tbsp. Confectioner's sugar The Long View Sara O. RISTINE spread the wool K blankets along the lines, then went up the tailored walk toward the patio of her new home. Her mother, Mrs. Day, sat in the lawn swing holding Anne, the sixmonth-old baby. Kristine sat down on the rustic bench close by, a dozen worries persisting in her mind. "I dread bringing Phil home from the hospital tomorrow," she said. "There will be so many things to distract him, and he's still so nervous since the accident. Contractors coming, people, telephone calls — Mother, I'm afraid Phil's made a terrible mistake. He should never have given up his teaching." The older woman rocked with the sleeping baby's head on her shoulder. "I thought so from the beginning, dear," she said, "but falling heir to all this mountain land, and the way people are clamoring for long-view property, I'm sure Phil felt he was using his engineering degree to advantage in developing this hill. And yet, Phil's a born teacher, Kristine. He belongs with the young people." Kristine did not answer, but looked down into the valley. The streets were like nbbons, squaring off evenly cut blocks like a patchwork quilt. Every tall building could be identified, and back of Capitol Hill, the houses clung to the slopes, on up toward the top. And the lake lay far in the distance, and the low mountains, protectingly hemmed in the valley. It was a beautiful sight. "T remember that first night we Page 444 Moss drove up here, Mother," said Kristine musingly. "It was the day Phil found out. About Uncle Charlie's leaving him the mountain land. We stood about here, and the long view did it. I shall never forget the lights of the city that night, sparkling, dazzling, reaching far around the city and the valley. They looked like a necklace of jewels on black velvet. I just wanted to feast on their beauty, not wanting to let them go. We decided then on the development. It seemed like a wonderful idea at the time, but the point is, we've never had a tranquil day since. And we used to have so much fun. Every day then was a challenge." "And all because you were doing the thing you loved most — molding young lives. Well, much as I adore holding this baby, I must go. It's getting late." Mrs. Day rose carefully to keep the baby sleeping. Kristine got up, too, and led the way to the child's room. After tucking a light blanket over the baby, the two women went out again, Mrs. Day entering her car. "T think you're right about keeping Phil quiet for a while," said the mother. "He's still suffering from shock, and he needs a great deal of rest, Kristine. See that he gets it. And don't worry." She backed out, waving as she sped away down the road. When her mother had gone, Kristine entered into the usual routine of the late afternoon. She ate an early meal with David, her sixyear-old, then helped him with his THE LONG VIEW reading. She fed the baby and got her ready for bed. After tucking her into her crib, she was startled to hear the doorbell ringing. She hurried down the long corridor to answer it. "Why, Sister Currie!" exclaimed Kristine with genuine welcome, when she saw a neighbor from the old home street. "How good to see you!" She hugged the little woman, then ushered her into the spacious living room. "Your new home is surely elegant, Sister Westman," said the older woman, her roving eyes taking in the pretentious furnishings about her, as she sat on the green lounge chair. KRSTINE smiled. "I'm having a time to get used to it," she confessed. "Everything is so automatic. Sometimes I long for the clumsy old house on Juniper Street." "And how we wish you were back," Sister Currie answered. Her eyes filled and her voice choked on the last words. "You're in trouble," said Kristine, moving closer. "Is it 'Tommy?" Sister Currie nodded. "Yes, it's Tommy," she said. "He wants to quit school and go into vocational training. We try to tell him that he needs the foundation' he's getting now, but it's no use. He says he's just tired of it. Tommy could be almost anything that he chose, if he could only see it." Kristine remembered how Phil had prized Tommy's ability at figures. "I wish Phil could do something for Tommy," she said. 'Then she told her old neighbor about Phil's accident. She realized now she should have called Sister Currie 445 as she saw the hurt look on her face. "Things have a way here of just piling up. We don't even have time to telephone, or do the things that used to seem important to us. We have to live so fast, it's like a race." "IT had hoped that Brother Westman could talk to 'Tommy,' said the older woman. "He's such an ideal person, in 'Tommy's estimation. Just being around him has often helped my boy." Kristine followed her guest to the door after a few minutes, and, as she took her leave, she half wished that she could bundle her two children and herself into the old model car and ride with her to the house on Juniper Street. Before Kristine had shut the door, Randolph Barnett, a building contractor came up the walk. Kristine, seeing him, felt a lift to her depressed spirits for he was not only a good contractor, but a good friend of Phil's. "How's Phil?" Randolph asked, dropping into the lounge chair. "I thought I'd get up to see him today, but a few details got ahead of me," he laughed. "I guess you know how that can happen, being in the same business." "Only too well," answered Kristine with a smile, but gaining strength from Randolph's calmness. "Phil's going to be all right, Randy," she said with assurance. "He's still nervous and worried about all the work that is piling up around here. There's so much mail, people wanting their work done, some are anxious to get their homes ready to move into — but outside of that Phil feels fine." "It was a close call," said Randy. "It was," agreed Kristine, "and 446 we're very grateful that he's alive and getting well. Of course he'll have to use a cane for some time, and it will be awhile before he can use his broken arm, but those things will mend." Randy rose and looked around the room. "I'd like Alice to see this view from this window at night," he said going to the wide windows and gazing out on the city. "She thinks this hill property is the choice spot of the town." "Bring Alice over, Randy," said Kristine. "It's been so long since we've seen either of you. Too long." She followed Randy to the door. "Tl drop in on Phil in a day or two," said Randy. "Maybe I can help him take care of a few small items like committments, abstracts, some of the problems that come up on the water situation, and save him a lot of running around until he feels up to it." RISTINE felt as if half of the burden she had been carrying went out of the house with Randy. As she thought of it, she couldn't remember either him or Alice complaining of the very things that seemed to be sapping 'her strength and Phil's. Randy and Alice were calm people. They kept to an interesting, even keel of life. They did Church work and had time for socials, for concerts, and they both contributed time to community projects. Ina flash Kristine knew it was the contracting business that was sapping her and Phil's energies, because they weren't cut out for contracting. Phil, the teacher, the leader, the pattern maker for molding young lives, had laid aside his talents to assume the responsibilities RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 of a burden, yoked to his unwilling Shoulders, unknowingly, and with unforeseen consequences. TTHE next day was warm and bright. The baby Anne looked wide-eyed as she sat in her car seat beside Kristine. Kristine drove slowly. She tried to evaluate the | situation that lay before her. Phil wasn't up to all the detailed problems that awaited him — problems that would have to be taken care of from a couch, as soon as he came home today. Suddenly, as she stopped at the red signal just before entering State Street, Kristine turned south on the green signal, instead of north. Before she quite realized what she was doing, she found herself driving directly toward the old house on Juniper Street. Before long she was in the driveway. The house looked old and shabby, the "For Sale" sign hanging on the big elm tree, only adding to the unwanted look. Kristine lifted Anne into her arms and walked around the house to the back yard at the garden's edge. She stood there a moment or two; peace wrapped around her like the warmth of a comforting shawl. 'The flower beds were weedy and the lawn needed cutting, but here was peace and quiet. The faded brick walls gave a feeling of strength and security. She hurried through the rooms of the old home. Quite a bit of furniture was still there. The wall-towall carpet that she and Phil had bought with such sacrifice still looked good. A preposterous idea took root in Kristine's mind. In a moment or more the idea seemed the sanest THE LONG VIEW thing that could happen to Phil and herself. With the baby in her arms, Kristine hurried to the house next door, conscious of the time that was slipping away too fast. Sister Currie answered her knock. "Why Sister Westman!" exclaimed the older woman. Kristine laughed happily. "I've just decided that I want to bring my husband here to the old house to recuperate." Kristine hurried to her home on the hill and filled the car with things she would need, such as bedding, clothing, and other essentials. She picked up David, her six-yearold, then went on to the hospital for Phil. What a wonderful week followed! What a joy to work around the old familiar scenes. What fun to see Phil his old happy self, and in his weakened condition, laughing, playing with the children, and visiting with neighbors and friends, as he lay on the couch. Kristine watched the tactful way that Phil handled Tommy. There were long talks on engineering, government positions, and other careers that lay in store for his future. 'They worked problems in higher mathematics. Phil talked sports, not only to Tommy, but to the other boys on the street, as well, who made a habit of dropping in. He solved little problems for them all. Girls, as well as boys, felt his strength and influence for good, here in the house on Juniper Street. Kristine liked going to the market. She liked to cook and serve the delicious meals without formality or pretentiousness. It was fun, sharing time and hospitality with old neighbors. 447 ATURDAY came too soon. Phil was moderately well. Except for the arm in a sling, the limp of the right leg, and the hurting place in his lung, he felt well enough to leave the refuge of the old house to begin work again on the hill project. The children were in the car and Phil stood on the edge of the lawn, reluctant to leave. He walked deliberately to the sign on the tree and pulled it off, handing it to Kristine. "Souvenir of a good time," he said. "Let's keep the old place. We might need another week to get our bearings when things get rough on the hill." They drove away as the neighbors waved their goodbyes. Back at their home, Kristine watched her husband _ struggling over figures, listening to the problems of sub-contractors, telephoning and interviewing various business associates. Kristine thought of Randy. She wondered why he hadn't called as he had promised. It was the middle of the week when his wife, Alice, telephoned to say that Randy had been called to Canada for the illness and death of his father. "But I know he will be along to see Phil, the minute he gets back. You can count on him, Kris. He can always find time to give Phil a lift, until he gets back in trim." Kristine thanked Alice with all her heart and hopefully went to tell Phil. Phil looked at her with tired eyes. "It would take ten men I believe, to do all that has to be done here before Monday," he said. The paleness of his face worried her, too. "The abstract should be 448 in Mathews' office, I should be in court tomorrow, and see all these committments...." we OK Ok OK RIDAY evening came. Phil was working when the doorbell rang. When Kristine answered the ring, there stood Sister Currie and 'Tommy. "How good of you to come!" exclaimed Kristine. At her invitation, the two friends came into the living room. "Tommy would like to help Brother Westman. Being Saturday, he thought there might be small jobs around the house that he can take care of for you," Sister Currie offered. The tall, lanky boy looked awkwardly about. "I can rake leaves, or clean up your flower beds," he said shyly. Phil had heard their voices and came limping into the room. "Like old times," he said, extending his hand to the two people. "If you mean you want to work, young fellow, you've certainly come to the right place. I never needed anyone so much in my life. You're a lifesaver, Tom. Come on, Ill show you what I mean." He put an arm on the boy's shoulder, and together, they walked down the hall to the library. Kristine smiled. 'That was Phil's way. He made a young person feel that he was needed—that he was special and had a special place to fill. "Tommy has been like a different person," confided Sister Currie, "ever since you were there. 'Tommy has worked at his studies. He has never mentioned that he wanted to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 quit school. I don't think he'll ever want to now." "Yes, that's what Phil does to young people," said Kristine. ""Tommy will go far. You'll see. He has a wonderful mind, and he'll use it." As they left 'Tommy promised he would be back soon. "But what can he do, Phil? This is all so complicated for a boy of his age and with no experience," asked Kristine, standing near Phil's desk. "Oh, I don't know," said Phil, with a smile on his face. ""The boy's a good typist. 'This is just a sample of some letters he wrote." He handed Kristine a letter that was ready for mailing. Kristine glanced at the overall neatness of the letter, then, seeing its contents, she gave a delighted little scream. "Phil! It's to the school board of our old district. You're asking for a placement for next fall." "Don't you think it's about time?" He drew her to the wide picture window. Outside it was dark, and the city lay like a mass of costly jewels. "Remember how that long view intrigued us the first time we looked down there? How sure we were that developing Uncle Charlie's mountain land was going to be the big thrill of our lives?" "I. Remember," said Kristine. There was a sadness and a note of regret in her voice as she looked at the twinkling lights. "We thought we were on top of the world with the majesty of those sunsets, and nights like this." "Well we've had it, Kristine," laughed Phil. "Why, seeing 'Tom tonight, big as life, just anxious to try that marvelous brain of his on the new science projects, made me feel great, Kris. 'To know that just THE LONG VIEW that one short week we spent down on Juniper Street, had changed a boy's life. Just think how many more might be waiting for us to steer them into the right channels for good." Kristine's face lighted up. "Phil, do you suppose we could get Randy to take over here? All this that we've started?" "Randy's our man, Kris. This isn't work for him, it's fun. I think he'll be thrilled at the challenge," said Phil. "And Alice likes the house," said Kristine. "I think Randy does, too." "We'll lease it to them for the time being, if they want it. We might want to come back, Kris, but 449 for now let's go back to Juniper Street, or some other street down there. We'll take the incline step by step. It's a lot safer."' Phil turned to his desk, and Kristine hearing the baby stir, hurried down the hall to the children's rooms. Her heart was light and gay for the first time in many weeks. She drew the covers up on David as he slept, then went in to see to the baby. One couldn't see so far, on Juniper Street, she thought, but you knew exactly where you stood. She had a warm comforting feeling of security and love, and she knew that was what she wanted more than anything else of life. It was a wonderful feeling! Bequest Christie Lund Coles My bequest, wonder-eyed granddaughter? A love of sun and wind and water; A compassionate heart, discerning eye, Proud courage to turn self-pity by; A questing and unfrightened spirit; A love of earth and small things near it; A sight beyond the steep and farthest hill Where strength is born, and quietness to still The being's passing tempest of dismay; The glistening moments of each common day; Pity for every hurt and anguished thing; A smile, swift laughter, and a song to sing; Faith to keep flesh and spirit reconciled. The world and stars I give you, small star-child. You Can Sew— V. Precis _ Jean Ridges Jennings ID you ever realize that pressing is as important as stitching to the construction of a beautiful garment? Though your basting may be good, your seams and other stitching even' better, if you wish your dress to escape that "fireside touch," you must press properly. Pressing is not just the last thing you do in making a dress to get all 'the wrinkles out. It is a technique that must be studied and done with "care, following set rules. In the first place, you must know how to press the material at hand. Some cloth requires much heat in pressing while some can stand only a little heat. Some materials will spot when moisture is applied and others require a great deal of moisture in pressing. Before touching an iron to your dress, make a test on a sample seam of your material to determine how hot the iron should be and how much moisture to use. There are many rules or suggestions one might follow to advantage in doing the pressing that accompanies sewing clothes: 1. Press as you go. Never sew over an unpressed seam. Do not leave the finishing of seams for a final pressing, but press each one before beginning another line of stitching that crosses it. Pressing enables one to work faster. And obtain a straighter line. Short seams must be pressed as well as long. Ones. 2. Do not apply any iron, even a steam iron, direct to the nght side of fabrics. Pressing is done on the wrong side of the fabric, with as many seams as possible opened out flat. Fabrics should be proPage 450 tected by a pressing cloth when pressing on the right side. 3. Always press with the grain of the material. Pressing in any other direction pulls garments out of shape. 4. Do not press woolens dry. Remove the iron while the steam is still msing. This keeps the nap from flattening out. 5. Pressing is not ironing. The weight of the iron and steam do the work. Do not push the iron along as you would to smooth out wrinkles. Do not allow the imprint of the iron to appear on the material, Pressing means bringing pressure down on seams, hems, and faced parts that require flattening. It is not pressure exerted across the fabric. Adequate equipment is necessary for good pressing. First, have a good iron with a regulator so that it can be adjusted for different types of fabrics. Pressing cloths of the proper weight are helpful. When fabrics require much steam for good pressing, a heavier cloth is advised. Apply moisture to the cloth with a sponge, press, and raise the cloth to allow steam to escape. If your material needs only a slight amount of moisture and pressure, use a thin cloth, such as cheese cloth that has been moistened and wrung as dry as possible. Apply it to the material and press lightly. This method is good for crepey fabrics. For materials with a little nap it is advisable to use two cloths, one a heavy, dry one, and a moist one on top. Pina turkish towel or blanket over a well-padded board for pressing textured fabrics. YOU. CAN SEW—V. PRESSING. 451 PRESSING AIDS These pressing aids are inexpensive to buy, or they can be made at home. For making a tailer's ham, cut heavy muslin or drill in the shape of a ham and stuff it firmly with sawdust or rags. The press mitt may be made from heavy material and stuffed with cotton. A flat clothes brush will serve as a clapper or beater, and a pounding board may be made from a block of wood. TatLor's Ham Press Mir For Pressing CurveD SuRFACES — CLaprEeR or BEATER = Pounpinc Boarp. For Use In Pressinc AND FLatrentnc Corzars, LAPELs, AND OTHER Facrep EpcEs Velvets and other pile fabrics require steaming or the use of a needle board which elevates the fabric on wires. The use of a good firm brush helps to preserve a soft look. Every woman should have a sleeve board. It is invaluable for pressing narrow articles. A tailor's ham and press mitt are available to everyone and are useful in pressing curved and shaped sections, shoulders, and sleeve caps. Press darts over a tailor's ham to obtain the required curve. Darts at the shoulder are pressed toward the neckline. Those at the back of the neck, the waistline, and hip are pressed to the center. A pounding board or a beater is ideal for pressing thick places, such as the edges of lapels and collars, or other faced edges. It applies pressure without flattening the nap. In using it, press moisture into the material with a press cloth, and while steam is still in the cloth, apply pressure with the block of wood. This flattens the seam, makes a sharp edge, but does not leave the mark of the seam on the outside. The back of a flat clothes brush can often serve as a pounding board. A really well-made dress should not reveal on the outside the signs of the inner workings. With many materials it is extremely difficult to press without transferring impressions of seams, hems, etc. Strips of paper inserted under each edge of a seam and under the top of a hem for the original press will keep the 452 marks of the edges from showing through to the nght side. This is especially useful on such materials as taffeta, satin, and other flat-surfaced fabrics. The bottom of the hem should RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 be pressed to give a firm true hemline before marking the width of the hem and again after the final sewing. Always press a hem from the bottom up, never around the bottom of the skirt. <2 Mother Made Buckskin Gloves Alice R. Rich AS I traveled the highway today, I passed a county road that led into a dairy farm. In the rutted dust lay a battered work glove, crushed by heavy wheels and stained and bleached by rains and sun. Regardless of its sorry condition, it awakened in me a vivid and lovely memory of my childhood home and my pioneer mother who excelled in glovemaking. Like many of the early settlers called to far-off outposts, my mother found ways and means to look after her own large household and to supplement the family income, as everyone, of necessity, had either to make or grow most of what they wore or ate. Wandering families_of Indians, probably of the Piede Tnbe, visited our little village yearly with tanned buckskins to trade for food and clothing. 'These sturdy hides my mother bought and with them made an improvised tent, and gave them a light smoking with a slow fire made from dried corncobs. Buckskins are soft, but tough and long-wearing if kept dry. Gloves made from them make wonderful protection for hard-working hands. The basic pattern had two parts: 1. The front and back piece, with the four front and back fingers attached, was folded at the outside of the index finger. 2. A thumbpiece cut separately from the hand piece. Between the fingers strips of material called gussets were sewed. They tapered from points, at the tip of each finger, to a strip the width of the respective fingers at the base. From there they continued up to the top of each finger tip. The thumb piece folded at the fore part of the thumb, and was sewed to the hand piece with a narrow strip or string of the hide to give extra strength for wear. For this work Mother used a special needle that had a three-sided file point to ease it through the tough hide. (All the stitching in glovemaking was handwork.) She used a heavy linen thread that was drawn several times through a cake of beeswax to give it greater strength and to ease it through the two and sometimes three thicknesses of skin. The sewing of glove seams was a slow process; the stitches must be close together, they must be deep enough to hold against the hard usage they met in the pioneering activities of wresting a livelihood from the untamed elements. 'The seams, too, must be smooth against the hand, and the thread must be well fastened MOTHER MADE BUCKSKIN GLOVES without hard knots. When the sewing was all finished and a wrist band attached, the glove was inside out. Then came the turning which was a process all by itself. A hand-whittled wood turner, worn smooth and shiny by much use, was always kept handy in the sewing basket. It was a slim tapering willow stick just smaller than the glove finger with a coneshaped hole hollowed out in the end. This was inserted into the glove finger and a second smaller stick pressed the unturned end into the cone. With careful and persistent pressure down over the larger stick, finger by finger, the glove was turned night side out. This was a slow and not an easy task, but it was most rewarding to see a finished product so useful and so substantial emerge from what was once a jagged piece of tanned hide. From the time that I was a young child, I was trust- 453 ed with this small bit of home manufacturing. 'Today, I can recall some of the thrilling pioneering incidents mother told me as I sat and helped her. Mother's skill in glovemaking was not confined to use by family men only. She used only good material, her measurements were carefully made, her workmanship was honest and good, and many were the hands that were warmed and protected by her industrious labors. Cattle ranchers, well diggers, wood haulers, fence makers, hay and grain harvesters, and countless other laborers have blessed her for the comfort they knew through her skill. Today, one of the sweetest memories I have is a picture that comes to me of a wide fireplace and a burning backlog warming a family group, with mother as a central figure, her hands busy making buckskin gloves. > From the Old Days Grace Barker Wilson This is the place we used to ford the stream With horses and wagon. If the day was dry It was no task. But if the stream was high From mountain rains, it was a thrill supreme To feel the wagon shake, and watch the team In battle with the current. What a sigh We gave when safe across. 'To simplify Our progress, then we walked what now would seem Unthinkable in effort up a hill. Sometimes we even pushed to help along The load, or raced each other to the top. Now in this place, the highway makes a fill; The bridge that spans the stream is high and strong. Cars pass, and no adventures make them stop! Clara Scoville ame Crochets Exquisite Designs LARA Scoville Ware, Salt Lake City, Utah, specializes in making doilies and other crocheted articles in equisite and unusual designs. She is an expert with the crochet hook and does her work rapidly and well, with even stitches and a smooth blending of the patterns. She has given away to relatives and friends hundreds of pieces of crocheting, and she always has many lovely gifts on hand for birthdays and Christmas. She also makes various kinds of rugs which adorn her own home and the homes of her friends and neighbors. Mrs. Ware was born in 1874 in Mt. Pleasant and was married in 1891 to Samuel Ware in the Manti Temple. She is the mother of seven children of her own, and a granddaughter whom she reared. She has twenty-four grandchildren and forty-two great-grandchildren. Her devoted service to Relief Society has extended over many years. She was a visiting teacher for forty years, and has been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for forty years. Mrs. Ware is a widow and lives alone. She takes care of herself and does her own housework from a wheel chair to which she has been confined for the last five years. ~~~ — tum Canadian Mission Magazine Honor Roll Percentages for 1957 Attention is called to the correct figures for this report: Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions Magazine ment No. Por Representative Canadian Mission 578 560 97 Leah H. Lewis Page 454 Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Carol Wilson, an artist on the staff of a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, went to Wyoming to attend the funeral of her sister Elizabeth. She felt a deep sympathy for the motherless children and decided to go back to them, however, she found them well cared for. Fred, Carol's brother-in-law, had become interested in a neighbor, Dolly Graham, and Dolly's brother Tony declared his love for Carol. Brent Gibson telephoned, asking Carol to return to the city to make the illustrations for a serial story. After the work was completed, Carol went back to Wyoming for a vacation. Tony took her on many excursions, and their regard for each other deepened. Finally, Brent Gibson went to the Wyoming ranch to see Carol. HEN Tony dropped in at \¢ Fred's next day and found Brent Gibson on the porch with Carol, he looked accusingly at the girl. "So this is why you wouldn't go on a picnic with me yesterday!" he complained. Carol, unaccountably gay, laughed. "Don't be silly, Tony! I had no idea Brent was coming up here." "But you're glad! Mighty glad!" "Of course ''m glad. Brent's my boss, and I had suggested that he come here for his vacation. It's always reassuring to have your boss act upon your suggestions!" "I wish he'd gone some place else!" 'Tony grumbled. Brent was staying at a nearby dude ranch, but Fred and Dolly welcomed him to the happy family circle so cordially that he spent most of his time at the ranch house. He was included, of course, in all their picnics and excursions.. Elizabeth's children were enchanted with Brent. They swarmed over him. Carol remembered how he had been with her other nieces and nephews last Christmas, and, as then, her heart was warmed by the man's complete understanding of the child mind. 'Tony was wonderful with them, too, but with Brent there was an intangible something that was different. It was almost as if the children felt an invisible arm around them, protecting them, while they romped. He ought to have children of his own, Carol thought, watching the group one afternoon. If he'd only forget that first love of his, he could find someone who would appreciate him. He didn't look or act like the type of man who would devote his life to nursing a dream, but you never could tell with that silent kind. Carol let her thoughts wander to the kind of woman Brent Gibson might choose, if he ever did choose a wife. But she drew back from actually visualizing her. 'There's no one good enough, she told herself angrily. 'Then she shook herself mentally. Of course you're fond of Brent —he's been mighty good to you, kind and understanding—a wonderful boss. And you ought to be generous enough to want his happiness, she told herself, being stern and honest. 'Then, oh, I do! I do want his happiness! But, oh, Brent, why did you have to let me know that you were not really happy? If we Page 455 456 could only be as we were a year ago—before Elizabeth's death. 'Then we were calm and happy and busy with our work, untroubled by thoughts of homes and motherless children and long lost loves! It was only when Carol was alone that her thoughts churned like this. When she was riding the hills between Brent and Tony, when she was frying flapjacks over a campfire for their activated appetites, when they were clambering up _ steep slopes or exploring dark caves, Carol was untroubled and happy. She felt gay and competent, and a little excited by the thought that two men were dancing attendance upon her. It was the first time she had been in a position to be a coquette, probably because she had been too busy, first with family responsibilities and then with her job. It was a pleasing, exhilarating situation, and Carol permitted herself to enjoy it to the full. And all the time, she was conscious of Fred and Dolly Graham, intent upon each other, moving inevitably toward marriage. "THEY went one day, the whole crowd of them, to explore an Indian cave at the foot of Buck Mountain. It would be a three-day trip, and with the food, tents, and equipment, there was going to be too much, even for the commodious station wagon. 'Tony glanced across the yard at his convertible. "Look, Carol! Why don't you and I go in the convertible? It would give the others more room." Carol was perplexed for a moment. She glanced involuntarily at Brent. Brent came toward them. "That's a good idea, Tony. And maybe RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 Becky and I had better climb in with you two. What say, Becky, my girl?" Becky danced up and down, entranced with the idea. It was rather a new experience for the quiet little girl to be singled out, and Brent's attention had made her blossom like a bright little flower. Tony was not to be circumvented so easily. "That will make us even more crowded than the station wagon," he objected. "Maybe you two better go with the family." "Oh, we don't mind!" Brent was perfectly composed. "Becky can sit on my lap — or, if it will be more comfortable for you, Tony, she can sit between us and [ll hold Carol." "No, you don't!" Tony glared at the suggestion. Oh! Oh! Carol thought, now they're coming out into the open. Tony fighting for a wife—Brent determined to rescue his artist. Well, I don't know that I want to be rescued. An impish impulse moved her. "You're so good with the children, Brent," she said cheerfully. 'Maybe you'd better ride in the station wagon and keep some sort of order in the back seat!" Brent shrugged, his expression shuttered. "Okay, if that's what you want. We don't crowd in where we're not desired, do we, Beck?" He picked the child up and gently tossed her into the station wagon. He climbed in after her. Carol's heart began to beat painfully. That was a mean trick! Why had she done that to Brent? Put him in with a carful of youngsters — no responsibility of his — while she went riding off with Tony. ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN Tony was delighted. He grinned down at Carol with a possessiveness he had never before shown. "Well, we'll have a picnic, whether old Brent does or not!" he exulted. "IT shouldn't have done that, Tony! I don't know what possessed me. It wasn't nice." "Tl say it wasn't!" 'Tony agreed cheerfully. "But he sort of deserved it, coming up here when everything was running so smoothly. He came up on purpose, too, to keep me from cutting him out." "Oh, Tony! Cutting him out! He never had such a_ thought! Brent Gibson is interested in me only because I'm a good artist. I've really done things for the magazine, and he doesn't want to lose me.' "Okay!" Tony agreed. "Keep on thinking that way, honey. In the meantime, remember that I am not your boss — I don't give a darn about your art — it is you, I am after, and I am frank to admit it." Then, very soberly, "You know I'm in earnest about this, don't you, Carol?" AROL didn't answer. One little phrase had caught her ear, only one: "I don't give a darn about your art."" That was honest, at any rate. But couldn't Tony see that if he didn't care about her art he didn't care about the real Carol at all? 'Tony, so sensitive, so understanding in most things, was dismissing her painting as if it were something that didn't count in her life— something that could be tossed out of the window in exchange for a wedding ring. He didn't see that it was a vital part of her which would enrich the lives of all those she loved — husband and children 457 most of all — if only she cherished it and used it for their good. And suddenly, violently, Carol wished she were back in the station wagon with Brent and the children. Tony took plenty of time driving to the prearranged campsite, so they arrived some time after the others. In fact, Brent and Fred had got the tents up, and Dolly and Kathy were busy with getting the dinner, while Steve was valiantly carrying dry wood to keep the fire burning. Carol was vexed, with both 'Tony and herself. She knew that they had cheated on the others; that they should have been on hand to help with the children and the setting up of the camp. She was honest enough to blame herself for their dereliction. She could easily enough have avoided this. Her embarrassment was heightened by the cordial good nature with which the early arrivals greeted them. She knew they were all too well-bred, even the children, to make an issue of the little episode, but she felt that she and Tony deserved some sort of silent treatment. To make up for her truancy, she set to work helping Dolly with an excess of energy that should have made the older woman smile. So, in spite of the little escapade, the day ended pleasantly enough, with stories around the campfire and an early climbing into sleeping bags to be ready for the dawn. There was a long climb to the cave, so breakfast was eaten in the chilly air before sunup. As soon as the camp had been straightened up, they all set out. Fred had been there before, so he led the way. The others strung along behind him, or clambered as near to his side as 458 possible, for Fred was telling some amusing anecdotes about his former visit to the cave. Amusing and thrilling the stories were, for Fred and his companion, Bishop Glover's son Dave, had met a big black bear and had had an exciting brush with the huge creature. It had been a close shave, but the young men had won out. "That black bear rug in front of the living-room fireplace is the result!" Fred ended his account triumphantly. "T hope we see a big black bear!" Stevie said bravely. "I'd sure like to meet up with an old, big black bear!" "Not laughing. I wouldn't though." "Maybe there'll be a big black bear hiding around here somewheres, but you don't need to be scared. If I find one, I'll yell for Daddy, and he can protect you, Aunt Carol." "Well, just don't go looking for trouble," Fred cautioned. "You stay with the group and we'll all be fine, bear or no bear," me!" Carol exclaimed, "No black bears for me. Mind a bear rug, HE climb to the mouth of the cave took most of the morning, and the hikers paused for lunch before entering the wide orifice. Inside, they found that it was light enough to explore without flashlights. The sun shone down through some narrow clefts in the rocky roof and showed a long, twisting room. That it had been occupied at some distant time was obvious from the shards of pottery, fragments of fiber, and other debris. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 But it was also obvious that there was nothing of importance left. "T suppose hundreds of local folks have searched through here since my visit," Fred said, looking about him. "But it's worth seeing, anyway. 'The children can get an idea of the sort of caves the Indians. Lived in, and, who knows, might find something!" The children scattered through the cavern, picking up the pottery shards, bright rocks, anything that appealed to their collector's instinct. Tony watched them, amused at their intent search. "It's been stripped," he said to Carol. "I doubt if they'll find even one arrowhead, though such a find would certainly tickle them!" "Maybe there's a secret room somewhere that nobody else has ever found. And maybe it's filled with treasure..." Stevie was saying. "You find a secret room filled with treasure and tell me about it," Tony whispered conspiratorily. "We'll divide it between us!" "Okay, Uncle Tony!" Steve agreed, and scampered away toward the other children. They made a thorough search of the rocky room, which extended back into the mountainside in an irregular tunnel. Here and there large rocks had fallen to the floor, and the children climbed up on these, having a wonderful, even though scarcely remunerative, time. But, finally, Fred glanced at his watch, decided it was time to start back to the campsite, and blew the whistle he used to summon the children. They came scampering, and Fred said, "Time to start back, folks! All out into the open!" He they ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN turned and made for the cave's mouth, HE others followed, loosely bunched, the children lagging behind. Now and then one of them darted aside to pick up some bit of treasure that had been overlooked. They were all chattering, laughing, comparing finds. The adults came out of the cave first, and stood blinking in the brilliant sunshine after the subdued hght in the cave. Trudy ran out, holding up a bit of flint. "This is too an arrowhead, isn't it, Daddy?" she demanded. Fred took the tiny object and examined it. "It certainly is, Trudy. Those pretty eyes of yours must have kept a sharp lookout to find i The others crowded around, peering at the small, shaped bit of stone, complimenting Trudy on her diligence in finding it. Fred looked over the group. "Where's Steve?" Kathy motioned vaguely toward the interior of the cave. "Back there." Fred blew his whistle again, but there was no answering rush of feet. He stepped to the cave entrance, and shouted, "Steve! Come along! We want to go!" 459 There was no answer. "Tl get him," Brent volunteered, and stepped back into the cave, calling, "Steve, old man! Come along!" Steve was nowhere in sight. Brent hurried to the very end of the cave, where a band of sunlight lay across the rocky floor, showing a break in the ledge beneath which the shelter lay. He looked up through the dancing sunbeams, but the opening seemed too small and too vertical to have been a way of egress for the boy. Brent went back outside. "He's not in there. Are you sure he didn't come out and start on down the hill?" "No, he didn't come out," Fred answered. "I was the first one out and he never passed me. He must be inside." Simultaneously, all three of the men stepped back into the cave, Fred blowing his whistle impatiently. Te said he was going to find a secret room," Kathy offered slowly, "but I told him there wasn't any." Above the child's head the eyes of Carol and Dolly Graham met. Their glance held, and as they stood there the vague annoyance they had felt coalesced into cold fear. (To be concluded) <>< Night Si light Pansye H. Powell Carried on silver wings through milk-mist night, I ride this giant bird in peaceful flight, Trusting my pilot's knowledge of the way. And thus my migrant soul on wings of death, Floating beyond our bourne of time and breath, Will trust a greater Pilot's skill some day. Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. TIMPANOGOS STAKE (UTAH), GROVE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "MEMORY BOOK," March 11, 1958 Front row, left to right: Martha A. Larsen as Amy Brown Lyman; Susan H. Church as Emmeline B. Wells; Eva K. Randall as Louise Y. Robison; Mary B. Jorgensen as Clarissa S. Williams. Back row, left to right: Jennett B. Mills as Zina D. H. Young; Mary S. Harper as Emma Hale Smith; Arvilla C. Harvey as Belle Smith Spafford; Fem E. Smith as Bathsheba W. Smith; Lola R. Bullock as Eliza R. Snow. This unique program was presented as part of the observance of the Relief Society anniversary. Gertrude M. Richards is president of Timpanogos Stake Relief Society. Page 460 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 461 Photograph submitted by Vera H. Peart EAST CACHE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 30, 1958 Seated at the piano is Rebecca Daines, stake organist; Thelma Lundquist is seated at the organ. Front row, center, seated, left to right: Anna Jean Skidmore, guest conductor from the Twentieth Ward; Glenna B. Crookston, conductor; Vera H. Peart, President, East Cache Stake Relief Society; Claris F. Felix, First Counselor. Absent when the picture was taken, Second Counselor Maria B. Campbell and Secretary Jessie Seamons. Photograph submitted by Iris B. Brown SAN BERNARDINO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), FONTANA WARD ANNIVERSARY LUNCHEON, March 11, 1958 Left to right: Fern Roberts, Secretary; Letitia Henderson, President; Marie Sled, Work Director Counselor; Gwen Ray, Education Counselor. Iris B. Brown is president of San Bernardino Stake Relief Society. 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 Photograph submitted by Evalyn B. White MESA STAKE (ARIZONA), MESA SECOND WARD FORMER PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1958 Front row, seated, left to right: Edna Peel; Zelma Miller; Lucretia Pomeroy; Adelaide Peterson; Maude Haws. Back row, standing, left to right: Vilate Cardon, present President; Mary Riggs; Inga Smith; Louise LeSueur; Ruth Brundage; Hilda Porter; Hariette Stradling; Lisania Brimhall; Lora Hancock. Evalyn B. White, President, Mesa Stake Relief Society, reports: "'All former presidents of the ward were honored. Included in this group is the ward's first president, Lucretia Pomeroy, appointed to her position in 1912. Tribute was paid to each of the thirteen former presidents in attendance, by a loved one, son, daughter, or grandchild. Lovely musical numbers were featured. It was an inspiring program. After the program refreshments were served. Mrs. Ched W. Christopherson, another former president, was out of town and unable to be present." Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Dobbins PALO ALTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, January 31, 1958 The organist Jean Conrad and chorister Ann Thomas are standing at the right in the second row. Ruby M. Dobbins, President, Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, reports: '"Unfortunately the picture was taken at a time which proved to be inconvenient for a large NOTES FROM THE FIELD 463 number to be present. Our Singing Mothers contributed much to our Visiting Teachers Convention. 'The convention was preceded by a lovely luncheon served to almost two hundred visiting teachers. Many were honored for outstanding service. We have had many assurances that the convention was inspiring to the visiting teachers, and we sincerely trust that it did much to encourage them in their important callings."' This chorus also presented music for Stake Quarterly Conference, March 9, 1958. There are 134 Singing Mothers in Palo Alto Stake. Photograph submitted by Hazel S. Love NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, SHASTA DISTRICT, TRINITY BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY DINNER, March 18, 1958 Seated in front, left to nght: Bernice Winters; Elder Francis Winters, President, Trinity Branch; Jean 'Taylor, President, Trinity Branch Relief Society; Viola Rovlance, First Counselor; Josephine Archibald, Second Counselor; Verda Dallon, Secrctary. Hazel S. Love, President, Northern California Mission Relief Society, reports that this group has been organized less than two years, and "is doing an outstanding job m keeping this little branch together and creating a feeling of love and harmony in the branch... They are doing everything in their power to follow the outline of the Relief Society organization. Their growth in numbers as well as in efficiency is commendable." 'The picture shows the dinner sponsored by the Relief Society and attended by sixty-seven people. Where GYesus Walked Remelda Nielsen Gibson Where Jesus walked the deaf were made to hear, The blind were shown the beauties of the earth; The crippled and the sick were healed. Each place Where Jesus softly walked, the wondrous worth Of faith and trust and truth was prevalent— The principles of love were kindly taught. Where Jesus walked his followers revered Each humble action and each holy thought! LESSE N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 9—"... He That Hath Eternal Life Is Rich" (D & C 11:7) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 11:7; 14) For Tuesday, October 7, 1958 Objective: "And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God" (D & C 14:7). (Note: The text of this lesson from Section 11 is also found in Section 6 which was studied last year (Lesson 7). The material for Lesson g is so voluminous that the rest of Section 11 will be discussed as a part of next month's lesson.) Background of the Main Text N their historical background, Sections 6 and 11 do not differ very much because each revelation was given to "beginners" in their understanding of the Gospel Plan. Understanding this fact wil assist one to appreciate the idea in this lesson concerning the text which follows: Seek not for riches but for wisdom; and, behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold, he that hath eternal life is rich (D & C 11:7). The Church was not yet organized, but, as sincere seekers for truth, Oliver Cowdery and Hyrum Smith were anxious to understand their place in the unfolding of the marvelous work which was to be accomplished by the Lord through his servant Joseph Smith. Later the Paae 464 Lord made known that those associated with the Prophet had accomplished many things for themselves as well as for others. (See D & C 1:17-30.) The Place of Wealth in the Gospel As we study verse 7 of Section 11, it seems appropriate for us to ask if material riches should be shunned by Latter-day Saints in order to live the life demanded in the gospel. What place does wealth or property have in the Gospel Plan? Every Latter-day Saint recognizes the need for providing sufficient of this world's wealth for himself and for his family. We are under obligation to do this providing. It seems almost an unnecessary task to tell Relief Society members that the material things about us are of value. The temporal riches of this world LESSON DEPARTMENT are provided by an all-wise Father that we might sustain ourselves. For, behold, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which cometh of the earth, is ordained for the use of man for food and for raiment, and that he might have in abundance (D & C 49:19). The great Welfare Plan, in which you sisters take such an important part, certainly points up the need for concern about this world's goods. This activity for those in need gives you a rich opportunity to serve your fellow man. So important is the emphasis of The Book of Mormon upon temporal matters, that Amulek admonished those of his day to "cry [pray] unto" the Lord over the crops and flocks of the fields, that the people might prosper in them. (See Alma 34:24, 25.). One's temporal welfare is of such importance that President Joseph F. Smith declared: It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them _ prosperous and happy here cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and to exalt them in the life to come (The Welfare Plan, Albert E. Bowen, page 36). It seems quite clear from these few ideas that riches are not to be shunned by Latter-day Saints, but rather that they have a definite place in the Lord's purposes for man. Actually, the line of separation between the temporal and the spiritual is so indefinite in the sight of the Lord that a distinction should not be attempted. (See D & C 29:34, 35; Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 6th Edition, page 70.) 465 An Evaluation of Wealth As stated in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (Revised Edition), the important message to be remembered is that:... Our Lord does not object to his people's being rich. It all depends on how they obtain wealth and how they use it. Wealth obtained by dishonesty and oppression is a curse. Wealth, used... For the furtherance of His kingdom is a means of eternal exaltation (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 208). The riches of this earth should be a means to an end. When considered from the point of view of eternity, which is the only true criterion, riches are designed for the building up of the kingdom of God and its members. 'The Lord is truly the owner of all temporal possessions and we are but stewards. (See D & C 104:13-17.) What Is Wisdom? To seek for wealth solely for the sake of satisfying one's pride, ambition, desire for power or for worldly pleasures, or other reasons for purposes inconsistent with gospel aims, is a barrier to a Latter-day Saint's spiritual welfare. On the other hand, wisdom, which is a gift of the Holy Ghost (See D & C 46:17, 18), is to be sought. Wisdom is the application of gospel principles into one's life. Knowledge without such application will lead to disappointment and loss of the "crown of righteousness." The wise person is he who learns the will of the Lord and then does it. Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding (Prov. 4:7). 466 Otto Done RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 THE SUSQUEHANNA RIVER NEAR HARMONY, PENNSYLVANIA (The Revelation, Section 11 of The Doctrine and Covenants, was given at Harmony, Pennsylvania, in May 1829) O, remember, my son, and learn wisdom in thy youth; yea, learn in thy youth to keep the commandments of God (Alma 37°35)- As one draws close to the Lord through prayer and righteous conduct, together withstudy of the scriptures, there comes the power to discriminate between the true and the spurious. Are the "Mysteries" to Be Left Alone? What is the Lord's promise to those who seek wisdom? He has said that the "mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you." And yet, how many of us have heard over the years the advice to leave the mysteries alone? 'The Prophet Joseph Smith said:... Declare the first principles, and let mysteries alone, lest ye be overthrown. Never meddle with the visions of beasts and subjects you do not understand (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 292). We should keep in mind that there are mysteries which should not concern us. When the Lord is willing to open some of his treasures of knowledge beyond what is already understandable, he will do so. Until then, however, let us keep within the framework which he has established. 'To go outside of these confines in attempting to learn of things which do not directly apply to our salvation is productive of contention and a loss of faith. In view of this advice from the Prophet, why should the Lord promise Oliver Cowdery and Hyrum Smith that the mysteries of his kingdom would be made known to them? The answer is probably LESSON DEPARTMENT found in the fact that these men had just begun to learn about some of the Lord's purposes. 'Their understanding of the Lord's purposes was like that of a child. They had to grow and develop in this work. Through Whom the "Mysteries" Are Made Known Actually the "mysteries of God" are unfolded to men by divine revelation through the prophets. (See Eph. 1:9, 10; I Nephi 1:1; D & C 76:12, 114.) Some of these "mysteries" are not to be made known until the people are ready to receive them. It was not until late in Joseph Smith's life that revelations concerning the temple work and ordinances relating to the dead were made known to the membership of the Church. (SeeD&C 124, 128.) Germane to this point is Joseph Smith's statement: The Lord deals with this people as a tender parent with a child, communicating light and intelligence and the knowledge of his ways as they can bear it (D. H. C. V:402). The principle just stated applies not only to the membership of the Church as a whole, but also to the individual. As one grows in understanding of the gospel through his obedience, more is made known to him. This was true in the days of the Savior as it is today. (See Mt. 13:10-13; D & C 42:65, 66.) What may be a "mystery" to one person may not be to another. It depends upon the "heed and diligence" which one gives to the words of the prophets. (See Alma 12:9-11.) Consistent with what has already been given, one can readily understand that not all of the Lord's 467 mysteries have been revealed. In fact, great blessings of knowledge are a part of the eternal plan that is known by Latter-day Saints as eternal progression. In these words the Lord has given a promise to his faithful saints: "And to them I will reveal all mysteries, yea, all the hidden mysteries of my kingdom..." (D & C 76:7). What Eternal Life Is If one receives the blessing of the faithful, he will be rich, for his reward is eternal life. But what is eternal life? It is more than immortality or the enjoyment of unending conscious existence. The resurrection or immortality is for everyone who is born into mortality. If we seek for the riches of the kingdom of God, walking in obedience to the commandments, the Lord has promised us that we shall receive the mysteries of God and then we shall receive eternal life. If, on the other hand, we seek the riches of the earth as opposed to the wisdom of following the commandments of the Lord, we shall lose the greatest of all blessings— eternal life. Application of the Text How does our text (D & C 11:7) apply to the members of the Church? First, we learn that we should prepare early in life to learn the things of God. Second, preparation for eternal life is a slow process. When you climb up a ladder, vou must begin at the bottom, and ascend step by step, until you arrive at the top; and so it is with the principles of the Gospel — 468 you must begin with the first, and go on until you learn all the principles of exaltation. But it will be a great while after you have passed through the veil before you will have learned them. It is not all to be comprehended in this world; it will be a great work to learn our salvation and exaltation even beyond the grave.. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 348). Third, in the process of being saved or exalted, it is necessary that one study the gospel of Jesus Christ. (See D & C 131:6; 130:18, 19.) Fourth, we are to acquire wisdom through "study by faith," prayer, humility, and the wise application of knowledge. A testimony of the gospel is a necesary part of this process of salvation. Fifth, among the "mysteries of God" for the faithful are the higher ordinances of the gospel. 'These ordinances are received in the temples of the Lord. The necessity of receiving these sacred ordinances was expressed by the Prophet Joseph Smith in these words: What was the object of gathering the Jews, or the people of God in any age of the world?... The main object was to build unto the Lord a house whereby He could reveal unto His people the ordinances of His house and the glories of His kingdom, and teach the people the way of salvation; for there are certain ordinances and principles that, when they are taught and practiced, must be done in a place or house built for that purpose... If a man gets a fulness of the priesthood of God, he has to get it in the same way that Jesus Christ obtained it, and that was by keeping all the commandments and obeying all the ordinances of the house of the Lord.... All men who become heirs of God and joint-heirs with Jesus Chnst will have to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 receive the fulness of the ordinances of his kingdom; and those who will not receive all the ordinances will come short of the fulness of that glory, if they do not lose the whole (D. H. C. V:423-424. See also D & C 124:28, 37-42; 42-61). Sixth, in order to obtain eternal life one must obey the leaders of the. Church. Concerning this fact, Joseph Smith said:.. I advise all to go on to perfection, and search deeper and deeper into the mysteries of Godliness. A man can do nothing for himself unless God direct him in the right way; and the Priesthood is for that purpose (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 364.) Section 14 The superscription indicates that at the time this revelation was received the Prophet had gone to the Peter Whitmer farm at Fayette, New York, where he completed the work of translation of 'The Book of Mormon. An incident is related by David Whitmer in connection with his preparations in bringing the Prophet Joseph Smith to his father's home. It is as follows: Soon after this [the arrival of a letter from. Oliver Cowdery] Joseph sent for me to come to Harmony to get him and Oliver, to bring them to my father's house. I did not know what to do. I was pressed with my work. I had some twenty acres to plow, so I concluded I would finish plowing and then go. I got up one morning to go to work as usual, and on going to the field, found between 5 and 7 acres of my ground had been plowed during the night. I do not know who did it, but it was done just as I would have done it myself, and the plow was left standing in the furrow (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 73). The objective of this lesson is taken from Section 11, verse 7—eternal life is the greatest of all God's gifts. LESSON DEPARTMENT (D & C 29:43; Moses 1:39). In Section 14, verse 7 the Lord seems to be warning David Whitmer of the need to endure to the end. This admonition seems appropriate in view of his being a special witness to The Book of Mormon and his subsequent excommunication from the Church on April 13, 1838 (verse 8). He was to assist in the bringing forth of the "... Fulness of my gospel... Unto the house of Israel'' (verse 10). 469 Questions for Discussion 1. Have you memorized Section 11:7? 2. In May 1831, what did the Lord say could be accomplished by the brethren who had accepted the gospel? (1:17-30) 3. What place does wealth have in the plan of salvation? 4. What do you consider the fundamental purpose of riches in the hands of a Latter-day Saint? 5. Name ways in which the text of this lesson applies to us as members. Visiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 9—"Yea, Whosoever Will Thrust in His Sickle and Reap, the Same Is Called of God" (D & C 14:4). Christine H, Robinson For Tuesday, October 7, 1958 Objective: To show that both through active Church work and through selfless service to others, we can all help in the Lord's work. HIS message is of such significance that it appears many times in The Doctrine and Covenants. Although the revelation seems to make special reference to formal missionary activity in the Church, still it has a message for every one of us. Although few of us receive official missionary calls, each of us should consider himself a missionary in the service of God. The Lord has need of willing servants who have an earnest desire to thrust in their sickles and reap, and when he finds such a person "... The same is called of God." However, the message in The Doctrine and Covenants (14:4) is not meant to be interpreted that anyone who has the desire can, of his own will, assume authority and _responsibility in the Church. There needs to be order in all things, and the Lord has clearly established the organization pattern through which he bestows his authority. Those who hold formal positions and actively participate in Church service, must be called by the proper authority. There are times, however, when some of us cannot hold a formal Church position. For example, some sisters are homebound, others are mothers of very small children. Still these sisters can, if they have an earnest desire, share in the joy of thrusting in their sickles in the work of the Lord. They can make 470 their influence felt as a tower of strength in the lives of those around them by setting lofty examples in their every word, thought, and deed. One young mother, who longed to perform Church service but who, while her children were young, found it difficult actively to participate in Church work, received joy and satisfaction in performing various thoughtful and kind deeds. For example, she would take a loaf of newly baked bread to a homebound sister, or she would wash and iron the clothing of a sister who was ill. Another Latter-day Saint sister who has been confined to her bed with a crippling illness for thirty years, has learned how to thrust in her sickle. Although in pain most of the time, she has not let this torment affect her sunny disposition. Because of her cheerfulness, people more fortunate than she often seek her out to gain solace in their afflictions. Frequently, people cluster around her bed while she inspires them with words of wisdom and truth. The Lord is aware -of such service. Although these sisters are not called to official positions, still they are thrusting in their sickles in perRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 forming works for the Lord and, as such, they shall receive their rewards. On the other hand, those of us who are able, should accept any Church position to which we are called. It is a rare privilege and an opportunity to hold a position in ~ the Church. When we honor a Church position and faithfully try to fill it to the best of our ability, we not only are helping in the Lord's work but we are reaping benefits ourselves. Talents freely used in the service of the Lord grow and multiply, and we become capable of rendering an even greater service. The Lord has promised us that if we heed the call to serve in his Church, we "... Shall be blessed both spiritually and temporally, and great shall be your reward..." (D&C 14:11). Whether in active participation in Church work or by rendering the selfless personal service we can, the Lord extends to us an invitation to thrust in our sickles and reap. He who willingly and wholeheartedly accepts this invitation will reap rich satisfaction and abundant joy, and shall "... Treasure up for his soul everlasting salvation in the kingdom of God" (D & C 14:3). G a thering Driftsood Maude Rubin Too young to know that life's span, memory-thinned, Lives only as a moment's sweet desire, We laughed together, leaning in the wind, Gathering driftwood for our evening fire.. Now evening's come—kneel down and strike the spark, Let memory flower in flame against the dark! Work IT leeting— Managing a Home A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meetin y g Discussion 1—-Homemaking Is the Administrative Side of Family Living Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, October 14, 1958 Objective: To show the importance of the vocation "housewife" and emphasize the many skills involved in the business of managing a home. 6s7'M just a housewife" was the identifying remark made by an attractive woman on a_ television show the other evening. After a few moments questioning, we learned she is the wife of an outstanding, successful business man, the mother of five healthy, happy children, does her own housework, is active in her church, has a position in the local P-T. A., serves on the library board, belongs to a social club, and is "room mother" for the second grade class at a school. Just a housewife, indeed! But our lady of the T. V. Program is typical of many women who seem to feel they must apologize for this important vocation. If any career woman in the world has a right to be proud of what she does, it is the housewife. As general manager in the home, she is the family administrator who keeps at her fingertips the many threads of family living. She is a wife to her husband, a mother to her children, a person in her own right, a contributing member of the community. She needs to be an expert at dovetailing her activities. She needs to be flexible in order to adjust to changing conditions. She must keep ever before her a clear picture of what is most important to her and her family. The home manager directs the family in analyzing and_ solving problems. The wise home manager does not feel she must carry the weight of the home entirely on her shoulders. She invites family cooperation, encouraging the entire group to analyze everyday problems which arise and plan for their solution. In doing this, her role as general manager is most rewarding. She and her family have a strong feeling of belonging together that makes home a happier place to be than any other. The home manager's job involves planning. All homemakers who manage well plan and organize. Some women plan the week's work while they wash the breakfast dishes or iron a shirt. Others work out their plans on paper when they have a few minutes alone. Some plan under the dryer in the beauty parlor or while waiting for a bus. Planning does not necessarily require a great deal of separate time, but must be recognized as most important in the management process. The home manager is a worker, too. As an efficient manager-worker she makes the most of her time, effort, and ability. She is alert as to how other homemakers manage. She talks to them about their methPage 47] 472 ods which seem to bring good results. She enlists her husband's interest in getting him to provide extra shelves and hooks, if needed, to arrange her equipment for streamlining her work. She reads books and articles in magazines and newspapers for ideas about efficient ways to work. She examines her work habits to determine if they are good ones. If they are not, she works to change them. She makes a challenging game of her work, pitting her wits against time and motion. She works by the clock. She wastes no time nor energy on nonessentials. Thus she can devote her energies to activities that mean most to her family and herself. The homemaker who is judicious has developed a sense of balance about her work. She spends time and energy economically on routine tasks. She systematizes her work so that important things are not slighted because of the pressure of routines. The home manager guides younger members of the family. As a child becomes more independent and wants to help with household activities, the wise home manager takes the time to teach him and make meaningful tasks that are satisfying to him—cutting out cookies, picking up papers, picking up his own toys, dusting furniture, setting the table, and ever so many more. He may slow his mother down, but the wise mother realizes it is not so important to save time in this inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 stance, as it is for the child to learn to carry his own share of responsibility. She is patient and makes a game of his helping her, so they both have fun. She finds, as he grows older, she has to give less and less guidance. Working together and sharing activities at home will seem to him the natural way to get things done. His mother's guidance all through his growing-up years has been a chief factor in his reaching this point with ease. The home manager evaluates results. A good home manager is continually weighing values. She does this in planning, in working, in guiding, and in teaching her children. She is constantly alert to the means that will bring most satisfying results to her family. She will frankly examine and evaluate her own success and failures—and she will learn from both. She will also encourage family members to do likewise. Her approach will be positive and constructive. She will try to see for herself and help others in the family to perceive the real strengths they have, and how they may use all their resources, human as well as material, to build for themselves the kind of life they really want. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are some of the management problems which confront a housewife? 2. Explain why planning is essential to the well-run home. 3. Why is it a good thing for the housewife to budget her time? antl imo—ancicn's Literature— Meet the New World Lesson 1—The American Dream Elder Brant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 1-4; 33-36) For Tuesday, October 21, 1958 Objective: To review the roles of adventure, financial gain, and religious freedom in bringing the first explorers and settlers to the shores of what now constitutes the United States. A wise Frenchwoman, Mme. Bertin, once truly observed that "the only newness is the rediscovery of that which is old." In any serious attempt to study the past, so bewilderingly vast is the material to be condensed, so pressing is the need to classify, to simplify, that we oversimplify. How temptingly easy it is to package our forefathers into neatly tied bundles labelled Whig, Zealot, Puritan, Roundhead, Conservative, or Tory. Let us remember that, as a human, man has not changed; he has shaped himself to different patterns so that historical classifications are in modern man reshuffled, but nonetheless present. In a warned effort, then, to understand more fully America's literature and the fathers who produced it, we must turn to the mirror of the past. Deeply ingrained in the nature of timeless man is his anticipation of an existence better than that which he presently knows. The ancient Greeks looked backward to their Golden Age. Plato (427-347 B. C.) wrote his Republic to blueprint his ideal mortal world, as did the English writer Sir 'Thomas More (1478-1535) in his Utopia. Throughout recorded history men have anticipated man's ideal fulfillment in after-life. The American Dream From the pre-Columbian century to the present hour, a few visionary men from each generation have devoted their youth and maturity to pursuing the American Dream. America as dream or as hope has never been truly seen in its fulness; the gap between the real America and the ideal America has ever been wide. Hosts of people have never known, or have forgotten, that there are two Americas — the tangible, immediate America and the filmy, intangible dream. For those who, at almost any price, have hungered for glimpses of the true America, it has never been merely thing or place, but always idea or dream: To wipe the slate clean and start over; to capitalize on the isolation of the wilderness far removed from Europe's hereditary patterns by establishing, in peace, one's own dream of the ideal community; to take land which could be had for the asking and shape it to a pattern of communal harmony and productivity — these dreams have Page 473 474 been tried or achieved. Major hungers have driven wave upon wave of western Europeans to explore and colonize the "New Found Land." It is to a consideration of these basic hungers that we now turn. Hunger for Adventure: Put bluntly, some men are not "homebodies." While the Viking, or Anglo-Saxon spirit has always been one to roam, as seen in Eric the Red and his son, Leif Ericson (ca. 1000 A. D.), Marco Polo (1254- 1324) was the first great wanderer of the Renaissance period, and the first European to traverse Asia. How great is our debt to him for liberating the imaginations of men with his exotic tales of the Court of Kubla Khan and the Great Khan, where a thousand cartloads of silk came into the city each day; palaces with walls and ceilings of gold; Japan (or Cipango) a large island rich in "rose-tinted pearls" and precious stones; pearls and diamonds, spices, indigo of India; small islands in the eastern sea which produced "valuable and odorous woods, and gold and gems, and all manner of spices — pepper as white as snow'; Zanzibar and Madagascar's ivory and gold. In one sense the Renaissance began with Marco Polo. Columbus acknowledged reading him thoroughiy; his book inflamed Southern Europe. His first dazzling report set in motion currents in Italy, Spain, and Portugal which soon resulted in men circling the globe. The lure of vistas and cultures never before seen by white men is one of the magnificent glories of the past, one not forgotten by later generations. Joel Barlow (1754-1812) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 one of the Connecticut Wits, considered his greatest work to be his epic, The Vision of Columbus, later reworked into the Columbiad. Undoubtedly, many Europeans who braved the uncharted ocean and the wilderness of the New World were motivated by this hunger for ad- ~ venture. Hunger for Land and Wealth: Immediately upon returning from his first voyage, Columbus published his Epistola. So hungry was Southern Europe for firsthand details of this unbelievable miracle world, that the book ran through seventeen editions. Soon Cabot, Hawkins, Drake, Raleigh, and Sir Humphrey Gilbert (who was the father of English colonization ), were challenged to emulate the host of Portuguese and Spanish explorers, some of whom sailed and traded and claimed lands a full century before. Among others, were Prince Henry the Navigator (1394-1460), Americus Vespucius, Magellan, Balboa, Cortez, Pizarro, Coronado, and De Soto. Nor should we forget that Portugal was the pioneer worldexplorer; that the Genoese Columbus sailed for Isabella of Castile; that the Spanish Council of the Indies, through which New World colonization was governed, was organized in 1524 (almost one hundred years before the Pilgrims came); that in 1536 Don Antonio de Mondoza was Viceroy of New Spain at Mexico City; that, when in 1588, Thomas Hariot wrote the first English promotional book in defense of England's first colony, the illfated Roanoke, North Carolina, expedition, it appeared forty-six years after the first American book, LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture CAPTAIN JOHN SMITH Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion, which appeared in 1542 to detail his walking tours across the present states of 'Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona. Furthermore, when eight years before the defeat of the Spanish Armada, in 1588, Queen Elizabeth defied established, all - powerful Spain by granting to Sir Francis Drake "the most important knighthood ever conferred by an English sovereign" for looting unprotected wealth from the ports of the fabulous Spanish Main, he was rewarded for harrying, not for establishing. The above facts prove the puniness of England's efforts in the New World before the balance of power shifted abruptly with the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588. Previously, she had nibbled at the fringe of Spain's two overseas empires. Now, with the victory, England was free to counteract New Spain's ominous growth by estab- 475 lishing colonies in Barbados and the Bahamas, southern ports from which rich Spanish galleons could be captured most effectively. We should not forget that in England's northern, hence less valuable colonies, the constant hatred for Spanish Catholicism unified all seventeenthcentury Protestant factions—Quaker, Methodist, Anglican, Puritan. Nor was the dreaded threat of Spanish invasion entirely confined to Old England. Following Elizabeth's death in 1603, King James I was vitally interested in establishing English colonies, but haggling Parliament controlled the purse, thus forcing English colonization to be financed by wealthy, private individuals who had sufficient status to gain a royal charter. This charter granted them exemption from certain commercial laws, and the right to colonize and exploit stipulated areas in the name of the Crown. Established by Queen Elizabeth three years before her death, The East India Company soon became wealthy, and other groups followed its example by obtaining similar charters in America. Basically a trading nation, England's monarchs were pleased, since by establishing colonies, outlets for her goods, on which she had a monopoly, were created. Save for the Pilgrims, all the groups establishing colonies in America were wealthy men — either aristocrats or wealthy merchants— who hoped to increase their own wealth by inducing the lower classes to do the colonizing, under the same social and political pattern they took for granted at home. Some colonies were peopled by indentured servants, who worked for a number of 476 years to pay for their land and passage; in others, land was sold for cash. Then, as now, the amount of land granted various companies was staggering, for example, the charter granted to a group of Plymouth, England, promoters, in 1607 which gave them 10,000 square miles of land. At the same time, a London group formed the Virginia Company which settled Jamestown. 'Two years later its charter was enlarged to contain a strip four hundred miles wide, extending "west and northwest" to the Pacific Ocean. In 1663, Charles II granted to a group of eight men the domain of Carolina, extending from sea to sea between the thirty-sixth and thirtyfirst parallels, while, in 1681, William Penn received the largest grant ever given to one individual. Thus it becomes amply evident that aristocratic patterns were to be perpetuated in the New World. But what about the future of the rising middle-class? When William Penn observed that "colonies are the seeds of nations," did he have in mind the welfare of the many as well? Would they fit in harmoniously with plans furthered by king and charter-holder? Yes, essentially, because they, too, were loyal Englishmen, and no other alternative existed. Individually they were attracted by the abundant natural wealth of forest, tillage, and stream, And there the sun shone as they had never seen it before. As Penn writes: "The air is sweet and clear, the heavens serene, like the south parts of France." John Smith: "Heaven and earth never agreed better to frame a place for man's habitation." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 Hunger for Religious Freedom: While the settlers of Jamestown, Virginia (1607) were chiefly motivated by the quest for adventure or personal gain, we must not forget another great hunger, motivating and basic. 'This was the hunger for religious freedom. In contrast to the Virginia colonist who was concerned with the glories of this world, the Pilgrim of Plymouth Bay was seeking a haven where he might worship according to the dictates of his own conscience. (See text, page 4.) 'The beliefs and growth of this courageous little colony of 1620 will be discussed in detail in the following lesson. Captain John Smith Few American writers have rivaled the first one—Captain John Smith—for the vitality and gusto of the words with which he created a lasting place for his adventures in the American imagination. In fact, 1608 is considered to be the birth date of American literature (text, pp. 1-2), for in that year Captain John Smith wrote a glowing account of the first permanent English settlement in America. Whether all the events he described happened in actuality or merely within his own fond imagination, we cannot know nor does it matter; if they didn't really happen, they should have, so tichly do they detail what every boy secretly hopes might happen whenever he goes out hunting rabbits with a slingshot. In Smith's Journal, he recounts how "Captain Smith" stabilized the Jamestown venture in 1607, after which he explored New England for another group of London merch- LESSON DEPARTMENT ants, naming Plymouth and several other landmarks. Though he lived to be fifty-two, his glorious exploits were finished before he was forty. Here is Elizabethan prose alive with movement, excitement, spectacle, heroism: Early in a morning a great fire was made in a long house and a mat spread on the one side, as on the other; on the one they caused him [Smith] to sit, and all the guard went out, and presently came skipping in a great grim fellow, all painted over with coale, mingled with oyle; and many Snakes and Wesels skins stuffed with mosse, and all their tayles tied together, so as they met on the crowne of his head in a tassell; the skins hanging round about his head, backe and shoulders, and in a manner covered his face; with a hellish voyce, and a rattle in his hand. With most strange gestures and passions he began his invocation, and environed the fire with a circle of meale; which done, three more such like devils came rushing in which the like antique tricks, painted half blacke, halfe red: but all their eyes painted white, and some red stroakes like Mutchato's along their cheeks. Round about him those fiends daunced a pretty while, and then came in three more as ugly as the rest, with red eyes, and white stroakes over their blacke faces.... Till night, neither he nor they did eate or drinke; and they feasted merrily.... After this they brought him a bagge of gunpowder, which they carefully preserved till the next spring, to plant as they did their corne; because they would be acquainted with the nature of that seeds.... At his entrance before the King, all the people gave a great shout. The Queene of Appamatuck was appointed to bring him water to wash his hands, and another brought him a bunch of feathers, in stead of a Towell, to dry them: having feasted him after their best barbarous manner they could, a long consultation was held; but the conclusion was, two great stones were brought before Powhatan: then as many as could layd hands on him, dragged him to them, and thereon laid his head, and being ready with their clubs, 477 to beate out his braines, Pocahontas, the Kings dearest daughter, when no entreaty could prevaile, got his heade in her armes, and laid her owne upon his to save him from death; whereat the Emperour was contented he should live... Captain Smith saw more in this lovely land than clear skies: for the ambitious, hard-working, religious young Englishman here lay the answer to his dreams, the key to a new way of life, a new attitude toward all existence. He speaks what was strongly felt in the hearts of so many: Who can desire more content, that hath small means; or but only his merit to advance his fortune, than to tread, and plant that ground he hath purchased by the hazard of his life? If he have but the taste of virtue and magnanimitie, what to such a minde can bee more pleasant, then planting and building a foundation for his Posteritie, gotte from the rude earth, by Gods blessings and his owne industrie, without prejudice to any? If he have any graine of faith or zeale in Religion, what can hee do less hurtful to any: or more agreeable to God, then to seeks to convert those poore Salvages to know Christ, and humanitie, whose labors with discretion will triple requite thy chartes and paines? What so truly sutes with honour and honesties, as the discovering things unknowne? Erecting Townes, peopling Countries, informing the ignorant, reforming things unjust, teaching virtue; and gaine to our Natiue mothercountrie a kingdom to attend her; find. Employment for those that are idle because they know not what to do: so farre from wronging any, as... To cause Posteritie: to remember thee; and remembering thee, ever honour that remembrance' with praise? The American Dream It becomes apparent that values: contained within today's American dream were present then, conveyed in words full with the poetry of 478 peaceful possession. But, lest one might point out that John Smith was of the wordly Virginia Colony, and therefore susceptible to such flights, we must end with a quotation from the writings of Samuel Sewall, one of the Stalwart Puritan fathers who are reputedly dour, glum, unemotional, utilitarian. For love of the land, and the peace which can come only from the sublime "at-home" feeling, few passages surpass Sewall's simple yet moving description of his home country: And as long as Plum Island shall faithfully keep the commanded post, notwithstanding all the hectoring words and hard blows of the proud and boisterous ocean; as long as any salmon or sturgeon shall swim in the streams of Merrimac, or any perch or pickerel in Crane Pond; as long as the sea-fowl shall know the time of their coming, and not neglect seasonably to visit the places of their acquaintance; as long as any cattle shall be fed with the grass growing in the meadows which do humbly bow down themselves — before Turkey Hill; as long as any sheep shall walk upon Old Town Hill, and shall from thence pleasantly look down the river Parker and the fruitful marshes lying beneath; as long as any free and harmless doves shall find a white oak or other tree within the township to perch or feed or build a careless nest upon, and shall voluntarily present themselves to perform the office of gleaners after barley harvest; as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 long as nature shall not grow old and dote, but shall constantly remember to give the rows of Indian corn their education by pairs; so long shall Christians be born there, and being first made meet, shall from thence be translated, to be made partakers of the Inheritance of the saints in light. What more undeniable proof - could one ask that the American dream is not a recent invention, or one beginning with the Founding Fathers of 1776? What more pleasant communing with fellow men who are our own, and so like us in many things? And for what better occasion could we ask to be grateful for words and the printed page, the device which vanquishes time and distance, and brings us identity within the great tradition of our own past, the past which literally puts words in our mouths, beliefs and hopes in our hearts? Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why might it be said that the Renaissance began with Marco Polo? 2. Do you believe John Smith to be a "true" writer? 3. What great event liberated England to begin competing with Spain's colonizing achievements? 4. Were England's first colonies aristocratic or democratic? 'To whom were they designed to bring wealth? <>< Repose Catherine B. Bowles The day begins, then evening's here. The silver moon shines bright and clear. A finished task, the day is done, As shadows vanish one by one. Then sweet repose and all is right And peace reigns softly through the night. Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 15—The Family Ties Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, October 28, 1958 Objective: in meeting family problems. THE family can be likened to a basket. It is woven by interlacing its members with many ties. The shape, size, and beauty of this basket vary, for its construction is a "Do it yourself" project. The durability and quality of the product will depend largely upon the combination of ties involved and _ their skillful use. The basic ties of marriage, birth, family patterns, and religious convictions provide the primary threads. 'The real beauty of the family, however, is developed when ties such as love, faith, and devotion are intertwined in proper proportion to produce the flowers of happiness which are found in the basket only when these ties are present. The primary purpose of this lesson is to discuss some family ties and to demonstrate the hidden strengths which they provide to meet the problems of family living today. The Ties of Marriage Marriage is a basic tie with legal, social, and eternal aspects. Attached to the marriage are many other ties of varying kinds. It has been facetiously suggested that marriage is a "knot" tied of a "beau" and a "belle" with a ring. The durability of this tie depends upon adequate and advance planning and To obtain an awareness of family ties and to know of their strength constant devotion during the marriage. 'To Latter-day Saints, marriage is an eternal relationship, a tie forever, and it is not to be considered lightly. 'The marriage contract or ceremony, like a contract to build a house, is executory in nature. Each contains present vows, but each looks to the future for a full realization of the contract. As the house must be built, so must the marnage. Each must begin with a solid foundation. Whether we are building a house or a marriage, we need to "build it upon a rock" (Matthew 7:24-27), so it will be unscathed [a7 the buffetings which are sure to come. Marriage is more than a ceremony and more than romantic love. While each is essential, the kind of marriage, the happiness and satisfaction it provides, depends largely upon how husband and wife, individually and together, build the marriage structne. In contemplating marriage, young people should carefully consider what they should seek in each other. They should squarely face the question: What characteristics can I bring to marriage and what characteristics should I seek in a marital compamion? Experience has demonstrated that some marriages are more successful than others, and that marital success is somewhat dePage 479 480 pendent upon the personal ingredients which husband and wife bring to the union. Asa general rule, and there are exceptions, success in marriage is more likely under the following circumstances: 1. If the parties to the marriage come from similar backgrounds. We have previously learned that our experiences in life affect our behavior and attitudes. If our religious, social, educational, economic, and interest backgrounds are different, we view situations differently. While these differences provide opportunities to broaden the family outlook, they also provide irritations which act as wedges when couples have disagreements. 2. If the marriage partners have emotional maturity. Beimg "grown-up" emotionally, having a healthy personality, is a condition which results from many influences, those influences which we all know are important to each person. Happiness, generally, is a result of emotional maturity. A happy, optimistic attitude is a great resource in marital success. 3. If the couple share common goals. In this connection, persons contemplating marriage might well ask these questions: What does each of us expect from life? Do we share common views about children and the role of the family? Do we have similar views concerning the purpose of life? What about social life? Do we think alike on the acquisition of this world's goods? On savings? On spending? 4. If the parties are well acquainted with one another prior to marriage. While love at first sight may be a time saver and strikes a romantic note, experience has shown that marital success is more likely when husband and wife really know the kind of person they are marrying. Observance of a prospective spouse under varied conditions helps one to know just what he or she is made of and how the storms of the sea of matrimony will be weathered. Strengthening the Family Tie The nuptial tie is the commenceRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 ment of a marriage which can be enriched and strengthened by ties of sacrifice, companionship, and the sharing of success as well as disappointment. Love is important in a marriage. Real love is deeper than romance. Those who truly love have experienced the pleasure of making their loved ones happy, of working out differences as they arise, of thinking in terms of "us" rather than "me." Persons who seek a sound martiage must be willing to pay the cost. Our pleasures in marriage are enhanced when we willingly assume the obligations of the relationship. The husband must assume his role as head of the household, but with consideration and justice. The job of meeting the financial needs of the family often becomes a heavy burden. This is one of the costs of marital happiness. 'The wife contributes to the purchase of happiness by creating the atmosphere of the home and by providing the dayto-day care which the children must have. The unglamorous _ tasks which she performs are money in the bank of happiness. While marriage is restrictive, it does not mean "bondage." Family ties are strengthened when family members play together. Family outings, home nights, vacations, and joint projects all contribute to the stabilization of the home. The bond of affection between husband and wife is strengthened by going out together socially. The romance of dates need not end with marriage. Family ties are strengthened when couples build common habits and interests. The social life of a family greatly affects marital happiness and success, and couples should, LESSON DEPARTMENT therefore, carefully build this aspect of their life together. Family financial policies may strengthen or weaken the ties which hold the union together. As husband and wife agree on family expenditures, or what they want of the future, they pull together. The Church has always taught that the greatest mission of women is motherhood. In speaking on keeping families intact and rearing children properly, President Joseph Fielding Smith said at the April 1958 General Church Conference: One thing... That I would like to call attention to—young people, when they marry are not satisfied to begin with a little and humbly.... Now this condition of wanting everything leads to this great trouble: Both the mother and the father find employment. 'That means that children are left either to run the streets or somebody has to be called in to take care of them in the absence of the parents.... Now, let us try humbly to keep our families intact to keep them under the influence of the Spirit of the Lord, trained in the principles of the Gospel that they may grow up in righteousness and truth. I think the Lord requires that at our hands. He has said, as I have read it to you here, that He will hold the parents responsible for the acts of the children and they are given unto us that we might train them in the ways of life, eternal life, that they might come back into the presence of God their Father. Now, some may think I am a little extreme, but I think that the training of the children, the watching care over the children in the home by the mother, is worth far more than to have her seek employment, even if it is a matter of pinching a little in order to keep going in the home. The Ties of Birth Birth is the occasion for the establishment of many ties. The ties between a newborn and his parents, 481 particularly with his mother, are close and deep. The anchor between a child and his parents, at first, is one of complete dependence. His life depends upon being fed and loved in other ways. 'This bond of affection grows, as each day passes, and as each develops dependence upon the other, each receives satisfaction, the child in feeling the warmth of the parent, and the parent in seeing the child respond. The little "bundle of joy" strengthens ties between husband and wife and establishes additional ties among and with all family members. The ties thus established with brothers and sisters are enduring and stabilizing to the entire family. Until the child comes to realize that he is an individual, separate and apart from others, this secure relationship is not complicated by the outside world. The Ties of Family Patterns In addition to the ties of birth, there are other ties which reach into the future. Those are the ties of family patterns. The child soon learns that he is part and parcel of the family; that he is tied to their fortunes, and is subject to the family's reputation in the community. The accomplishments and honors, as well as the failures, of other family members in community and church are all linked with the new child. After some years, the child discovers his birth tied him with the distant as well as the immediate past. These ancestral ties link him with family experience and tradition, giving him a status obtained in no other way. These family patterns are usually passed from generation to genera- 482 tion. For example, if at all times we show deference, consideration, love, understanding, appreciation, and gratitude to parents, we establish a pattern of family living which is passed to our children and our children's children. When _ these concepts are part of the family pattern, the care of parents in. Their "golden years" follows as a matter of course. This tie gives new meaning to the time-honored advice: "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Exodus 20:12). Stress on Family Ties The functional purpose of desirable family ties, in addition to providing to the individual stability, security, and happiness, is to provide strength and reserve with which to meet problems which affect most families. Marital Problems. While a martrlage may be a "bed of roses," "thorns" are also present. 'The marriage which lacks disagreement must indeed be dull. Marital partners who are realistic know_ there will be differences from which they cannot run. 'lo pretend they do not exist, or that their existence is shameful, is an unwholesome approach which only enhances the problem. Married persons should not mistake normal developments for serious problems. For instance, if you occasionally become bored or quarrel with your spouse, do not conclude you have fallen out of love or that your martiage was a mistake. Conflicts in marriage are not uncommon, but they may be disastrous if not resolved, for a "... House divided against itself shall not stand" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 (Matthew 12:25). If we have developed a closeness through the ties of love, consideration, understanding, and common goals, we will intelligently seek solutions to our problems. When problems. Arise, each marital partner might ask and answer the following questions: 1. What do our differences mean to my spouse? Z. Why am I annoyed and what do they mean to me? 3. What can I suggest as a step towards the solution of the problem? 4. Am I patient? 5. Am I permitting my partner to "save face?" 6. Have I made it clear that I have an abiding love for my partner even though we disagree? When disagreements cannot be resolved through their own efforts, married couples should seek competent help. Latter-day Saints may seek the advice of their bishop who may assist them himself or refer them to others who can adequately deal with the situation. Third persons who have skill to solve marital problems approach their task without a strong prejudice for or against either party, with understanding, and a desire to help. All married partners have differences. These differences relate to such things as interests, tastes, their physical capacities, politics, or religion. It is from these differences, often little unimportant things, from which conflict comes. If couples are to solve their differences, they must recognize them by bringing them out in the open. Quarreling sometimes has the effect of doing this very thing, but it would be far better if differences could be discussed frankly and without anger. A problem closely related to LESSON DEPARTMENT marital differences is the proverbial problem of the in-laws. When we marry, we establish tie lines with the relatives of our marriage partner. 'These ties can be sources of trouble between husband and wife as well as the in-laws, but they need not be. If we start with the right attitude towards our in-laws, if we treat them with respect and _ love, and try to understand them and their needs, this association can be one of the choicest in life. Mothersin-law, who are also mothers, bless their hearts, have special needs which we should try to understand. Some of the problems of a motherin-law arise by virtue of her ties with your spouse. You should understand these ties were formed long before you were in the family and, if she seems possessive, try to overlook it. On the other hand, if you are the mother-in-law, you should understand that your ties with your children can never be broken, but should be different, however, with your adult children. You should recognize and accept the difference by assuming your role wisely. It is far better for a newly married couple to live by themselves than with inlaws. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife; and they shall be one flesh (Genesis 2:24). One of the major causes of divorce arises out of religious differences. 'Temple marriages are the only really successful marriages where Latter-day Saints are concerned. No mixed marriage is ever wholly successful, and the partners must work hard for whatever measure of success they gain. 483 It has been a teaching of the gospel in all ages that members of the Church should marry members of the Church. Paul said "Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers... (II Cor. 6:14). Tension on the Apron Strings. A child's push for social independence, which begins very early, strains the parent-child relationship. When Junior puts on his first "tie," when he reaches his adolescence, his parents become apprehensive and there is great tension on the apron strings. 'The apprehension of parents is born of a strong desire to see that their child takes safe steps as he ventures forth. One of the great problems of youth today lies in their failure to recognize that parental "do-nots" are primarily expressions of love, stemming from a strong desire, almost a fanaticism, that their child go into the world in an acceptable and satisfactory manner. If proper ties of love, confidence, and understanding have been formed, this experience, though ofttimes "bumpy," will be one of satisfaction, of adjusting existing ties and forming new ones. At this time the ties of parental love must be warm and apparent; the limits of discipline must be reasonable and consistent; and the cords of understanding must be constantly used. Parents must help their children realize that, through it all, they have an abiding love for the child. All of us should help children fathom the "peculiarities of parents. They should realize why parents have difficulty in loosening the apron strings. 'The difficulties of adolescence are not exclusively with the adolescent. This "new freedom" for the child is a "new phase" for mother and father as 484 Books for The CHURCH ORGANIST = AT THE CONSOLE-—Felton................ 2.00 aa CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton _.............. 2.50 = DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM— Asper....: 2.50 nee EIGHT SACRED SONGS—Hart............ 1.50 —_ FAVORITE SACRED MELODIES— Stickles ooo ceeeeeeeeeeseeee 1.50 ae FIRST LESSONS ON THE ORGAN— A 1.75 a HAMMOND ORGAN METHOD— Stainer-Hallett 220s 2.00 _— ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper _. 2.75 — ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1 & 2— Schreiner 220... Eeeeceeeee esea. 3.50 ill 33 FAVORITE ORGAN SOLOS— | rrr 1.50 a WARNER'S DEVOTIONAL TRANSCRIPTIONS.0 1.50 The above listed books are just a small part of our organ stock. We have books for | all electronic organs, reed and pipe organs. Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY = 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. O On Approval O Charge OD Money Enclosed Name Address.. City & State * 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOS Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 well. He who was once completely dependent upon mother and father is now seeking broader horizons leading to an eventual family of his own. The very thought of this grown-up "babe in arms" being married and leaving home is a nostalgic threat to mother. Mother should - realize the inevitableness and grandeur of growing up and should conscientiously seek to adapt herself, by gradual steps, to the day when her child leaves home. Leaving the Home. Family ties buoy up the "inner man" as he leaves the family hearth. That child who has been firmly rooted in a good family goes on his mission, away to school, or to the army, with hidden strengths which help him to meet the problems of loneliness, of temptation, and of relationship with others. As he establishes his own household, we see him copying patterns of his parental home, and assuming responsibilities of adulthood with dignity. While he has severed some family ties, particularly those of associating constantly with his parents and brothers and _ sisters, those ties which help him effectively to relate to his spouse, to take his proper place in community living, to fit into the great plan of life, are stronger than ever before. These ties are probably his greatest inheritance. A parent who has properly taught his child, who has given him love and security, and provided for his other needs can accept his child's leaving home to attend school, fill a mission, or serve his country. He is in a position to give him this word of advice: My boy, I have taught you the principles of the gospel. I have taught you to pray to God, at my knees, from the time you LESSON DEPARTMENT were a child until you have reached manhood. I have taught you virtue. I have taught you honor. I have taught you to stand for the Truth and to honor your father and your mother in the world, and by so doing honor the fathers and the mothers, and the daughters of all men, wherever you go.... Go out into the world from your home clean. Keep yourself pure and unspotted from the world, and you will be immune from sin, and God will protect you. You will be in his hands (Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, Ninth Edition, page 424). Eternal Ties The many family ties among family members form a bond of affection which tightly holds the family together. These ties of relationship insure unity and happiness. But there is yet another tie which is by far the most important of all—the tie with God and eternity. 'The firmness of this link depends upon the family members. The cord by which man may return to God consists of faith, repentance, and baptism of the water and of the Spirit; service in and devotion to the Church by adherence to its principles; and marriage in the temple of the Lord by one having authority. This tie gives us the courage to seck a better way; the strength to accept death without bitterness; the faith to face the future without fear; and the incentive to enjoy each precious moment of family living. 'Those who conscientiously seek this tie with God are in the main stream of eternal happiness and progression. Questions for Discussion 1. Illustrate how differences may be used to good advantage in a marriage. 2. How can regular family councils help avoid explosions in the home? 3. Why should a sense of humor be 485 LEARN TO. TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah @ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles........ 2 35 150 to 300 miles..........02............39 300 to 600 miles 4 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles i 1400 to 1800 miles.........2.......000.......76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret Ne ws Press 33 cael St. Re i 1, ur GD) 486 VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 @ LONDON TEMPLE DEDICATION We have several tours that will be in Europe for the London Temple Dedication. One for every pocket book. @ HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT The Historic Train and Historic Bus tours both leave August 1, 1958. Make your reservations early. @ NORTHWEST Tour to the Northwest will include Vancouver, Victoria, and Lake Tahoe, California, etc. Leave July 21, 1958 for two glorious weeks. Write or phone for free itineraries and programs of these above mentioned tours. VIDA FOX CLAWSON The Best in the West Travel With Us 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1958 cultivated in any marriage? What can it do for family ties? 4. When are "'apron strings" hazardous? 5. How can the eternal family ties sustain the family in time of death? Other separations? Supplementary References 1. Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Josepnu F. Smiru, chapter 16, page 272 (Review). 2. Gospel Ideals, Davin O. McKay, chapter 35, page 477. 3. "A Challenge to Parents," ANTONE K. Romney, The Improvement Era Series, toby 4. "What Makes a Good Home?" Anna W. M. Wo rr and Margaret C. Dawson, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 40 cents per copy. 5- "They Shall Call Him Blessed," CurisTINnE H. Rosinson, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1957, page 348. 6. "When Mother Made Butter," Mar R. Winters, The Relief Society Magazine, July 1957, page 486. 7. "Children: First, Last and In Between," CHARLOTTE BUHLER and ALLAN ScuiaFF, National Parent-Teacher, February 1958, page 7. 8. "A Mother's Joy in Her Family," Vivian R. McCownxiz, The Relief Society Magazine, May 1957, page 284. G. "An Apostle Speaks About Marriage to John and Mary," Exper SpeNcEeR W. Kimball. * 10. "If I Were a Young Bride," Emiry H. BenNetTT.* 11. "If I Were a Young Husband," Emity H. BEenNnetr.* *These three pamphlets are available at the Y. W. M. I. A. Office, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Price 10 cents each, $1 per dozen, $6 per 100. Infinity Spea hs Mabel Law Atkinson Be quiet, heart, as this lilied pool Where stars are mirrored, clear and cool, With a moon-canoe, its pilot, peace— Be still my heart, accept release. She Ye How Line Thelma Groneman T was growing dark and time for me to return home. I was afraid. My return journey would lead me down a steep and winding road. Fear gripped my heart as I climbed into my car. I slowly and carefully wound downward around curve after curve. My heart beat fast. My eyes strained at the dark road. Finally, I came out onto the main highway, but still I had to go down and down, curve after curve. There would be traffic with blinding, on-coming lights. I might not be able to see the road ahead of me. There wasn't as much traffic as I had expected, but still I was so afraid I was almost ill. I wished I had left earlier. Suddenly I became aware of the yellow signs along the right-hand side of the highway and the yellow line on the left, marking the center of the road. And all placed there for safety's sake—my safety. Very swiftly a calm settled over me. My heart stopped racing, and I was no longer afraid. Then the comforting thought came to me—how very much like life was the highway I was traveling. There was danger at every curve, and care was needed to drive every mile. How like life, too, were the yellow signs. God had given us signs to warn us of dangers in life; to guide us in the right path. His constant, comforting inspiration and love were like the constant yellow line. Oh, dear Father, thank you for your love and comfort. Thank you for your guidance and your understanding of our needs. Thank you for the yellow line. A PAINTED ESPECIALLY FOR YOU f LITERATURE CLASS LEADERS NEW LESSON ENRICHMENT IN BEAUTIFUL COLOR * EARLY AMERICAN SCENES and PORTRAITS OF LEADERS ° ¢MAP OF HISTORICAL EASTERN AMERICA (Multi-color, on cloth) PRODUCED BY THE AUDIO-VISUAL CENTER AT 8. Y. U. IN CO-OPERATION WITH THE RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD. The Audio-Visual Center will sell these materials in a complete teach- = ADVANCE ORDERS ACCEPTED ANYTIME ing aids packet which will be available September 1, 1958. Cost will be $5.00 plus postage. Me tcae *: Audio-Visual Center BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY, PROVO, UTAH Page 487 Northwest Scenic Tour Includes Passion Play at South Dakota, Yellowstone Park, Glacier Park, Vancouver, and Victoria, B. C. 17 days for $185.50. Historical L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at Hill Cumorah, historical places of the Church, New York, Chicago, Washington, Canada, Niagara Falls, and Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City August 2, 1958. $210.00 for 23 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. English Temple Dedication Tour Leaves August 29th from New York City. Several tours going to Dedication of the Temple either by air or boat. These are very reasonable tours. Write or phone for further details to: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East SALT LAKE CITY 9, UTAH Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2337, CR 7-6334 PLAN LIGHT for LIVING Live Better Electrically with FULL HOUSEPOWER - UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Page 488 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-four Mrs. Mary Dett Fett Younc Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Lucretia Poeipes PoMEROY Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Exizaseto McKay GLEeED Malad, Idaho Ninety Mrs. CaroninE CHRISTENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah > Pamela Ys Swo Ethel Jacobson Wee one, tiny one, No longer than an elf, Mite-size, sprite-size, Waltzing by yourself; No bigger than a button, No cuter than a bug, No sweeter than a kiss, No warmer than a hug. Wee one, tiny one, A flitting honey-bee— Airy girl, fairy girl, Waltz awhile with me! > Pioneer Bonnet Filindia S. Huff A shield from sun and weather, Was grandma's plain chapeau; It had no frill nor feather, Just slats and calico. In style born of necessity; Fashioned all by hand; Her companion constantly In trek through sage and sand. But when she wore that bonnet To church on Easter Day, She pinned a rose upon it; Undaunted, brave and gay. NEW BOOKS for your Library THE DEAD SEA SCROLLS AND ORIGINAL CHRISTIANITY O. PRESTON ROBINSON Editor-General Manager of Deseret News From out of the dust the Dead Sea Scrolls have brought convincing new evidences that the Restored i Gospel is eternal. From the pen of Dr. O. Preston PAD LO ALMA OS CONE SED, investigating the scrolls, comes this dramatic story of their discovery in 1947. Dr. Robinson points out the significance of the scrolls to members of the Church. $2.00 2. WHY | AM A MORMON SENATOR WALLACE F. BENNETT In a clear, warm style, Senator Bennett covers the eardinal points of LDS doctrine and outlines the history and organization of the Chureh. He discusses the Church's teachings on the plan of salvation, the nature of man, mortality and immortality, Jesus the Christ, and God. In the coneluding chapter he gives a candid personal account of why he is a Mormon. $2.75 3. COMMENTARY ON THE BOOK OF MORMON — Vol. Ill GEORGE REYNOLDS and JANNE M. SJODAHL Authoritative, comprehensive analysis of scriptural ganas REYES truths contained in the Book of Alma from the Book eal data to help students and scholars of scriptures gain complete understanding $5.00 Volume I—$5.00 Volume Ii—$4.00 fty. Utah ss) Residents of Utah inciude 2% sa'etax DESERET BOOK COMPANY { | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ) check ( ) money | | order ( ) | have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed | | pt oasis subcslaontes for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 | Name SS. Ss ae.... Bose | | Address. Ee. |! Gityme..........- Zone State a Orivinal Christianity sant we. S10088E Robinson, who has twice visited the Dead Sea area of Mormon, with explanatory information and histori- NEW from Beneficial. As your family increases, -so Amount of Insurance does your insurance... But the (who needs premium stays the same! — s most insurance lunit: $5,000 real packaged protection. DAD protection) x aioe SLO POD all-in-on policy that covers the ee 3 units: $15,000 entire family, including children born later or legally adopted. MOM $1,250 per unit Yet you pay no more for your (if same age as Dad) insurance regardless of family additions. CHILDREN Insured for $500 per One low, easy - to - remember wr Ps = $1,008 premium deposit protects the en- (including future per unit from 6 tire family. For more informafamily additions) months to age 22 tion, call your Beneficial man, or use the coupon. Beneficial Life Insurance Company Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah B E N E F I C [A L L I F E "sh | | Send now for folder giving more complete detai. S | about Beneficial's new Family Package Plan. In surance | \ \ | 1 Name ooo. I cocccoscc; Vitgil HSE, Pres, City). Zone State...: ' @é ZENIGCVDOVW nus ta When Sh reshers Came Alice Morrey Bailey Such gloried days as this will soon be gone, When caliopic whistles slit the dawn In heralding the thresher's creeping roar From farm to farm across the valley floor. It takes its stand between the cone-shaped stacks, The wagons wait with balls of twine and sacks, The granary stands apart with empty bin, And soon no shout will rise above the din. Inside the kitchen bustling women vie With neighbor women making cake and pie, Preparing savory food and lengthened board Against the inrush of the hungry horde, For only these, the harvesters of wheat, Can gorge the fabled way that threshers eat. Red-kerchiefed men, swathed deep against the chaff, Lean on their pitchforks, bandy word, and laugh. The engine coughs and starts the oily belts, The straw mound grows, the bundled grain stack melts, The forkmen pitch with rhythm to the maw, The carrier belches forth its plumes of straw, The sackers catch the stream of kerneled gold, The wagons shuttle forth to fill the hold. This day is sliding down the historied trail Of clumsy tools, with wind and scythe and flail, Lost as turnstile's creaking, hour by hour, Which measured out the sad-eyed horse's power. Today a lone machine can harvest grain, A lone and hungry man comes home again. The Cover: View in Monterrey, Northern Mexico Photograph submitted by Rhoda C. 'Taylor Frontispiece: Field of Wheat Luoma Photo Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Hear and Sar Today the boat came in. At last The Relief Society Magazines have started coming. No matter that they are old, for each one is packed with uplifting words of strength and encouragement. Now for many happy hours of reading while I forget the frustrations, the primitiveness of life here, and the homesick feelings that sweep over me at times. Here, in a land without newspapers, television, or radio, how very welcome are the Magazines. I will read and treasure every word, then pass them on to a neighbor or friend who, I hope, will get joy from them also. After living six years in Nicaragua, and now here in Africa, I have come to appreciate all reminders of home. —Thelma Pope Mogadiscio, Somalia East Africa For many years I have received and enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. Each -month | feel as if the arrival of the Magazine is like a visit from an old and cherished friend. I enjoy the lessons, editorials, poems, and stories. The cover designs and frontispiece are always beautiful. In the March issue I especially enjoyed the Third Prize Story "Wee Pine Knot," by Edna H. Day. It gives such a clear picture of problems so many of us are facing, and gives a pleasant and worthwhile solution and outlook on life. I like her clear-cut and uncluttered style of writing. —Mary Nuffer ~"Wendoversweal I have just received my June issue of The Relief Society Magazine and have read of the two women (in Kansas and Texas) who live so far away from Church. I live thirty-three miles from the Albany Branch in Georgia and have only been able to get to Church on Sunday. I have sometimes felt discouraged, but constantly pray for strength and guidance, and I enjoy the Magazine so much that it fills my heart with comfort. —Mrs. Curtis Herring Dawson, Georgia Page 490 The Magazine is the nicest gift I have ever received. It is very refreshing to read the sweet stories, when there is so much ugliness elsewhere. Thanks for all your efforts to give us a fine Magazine. —Ruth Anne Hymas Farmington, New Mexico May I sum up what I think of The Relief Society Magazine? It is just fabulous, and to all who make it such, I extend my humble thanks. —President John Vernon Rawtenstall Branch Liverpool, England I think Christie Lund Coles' poem "Bird on an Orchard Bough," in the May Magazine (frontispiece) is exquisite. At a writer's club meeting in Provo in 1929, Professor Harrison R. Merrill spoke of Mrs. Coles as ''the Sara 'T'easdale of Utah," and I agreed with him. They have the same appeal and delicate quality. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah I would like to express my appreciation for the Relief Society literary contests. I feel they constitute a very important encouragement and contribution to the writers among us, and I feel it an honor to take part in them either as a contestant or as a reader of the prizewinning selections in the Magazine. —Maryhale Woolsey Salt Lake City, Utah The General Board of Relief Society should be commended for publishing a Magazine whose pages are not cluttered up with advertisements. Those that are in the Magazine are placed so that they will not interfere with reading, and most of them have to do with themes or work connected with the Relief Society organization. —Miss Anne Snow Teasdale, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Atton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Eina P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Genera! Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 AUGUST 1958 NO. 8 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Temple in New Zealand Wealtha S. Mendenhall 492 Everyday Life in Colonial New England—Part I Honor Thy Father and Thy Mother Annual Report 1957 "Not to the Swift''—Chapter 2 = _ pas i. Deone R. Sutherland 516 Elizabeth's Children—Chapter 8: _ =< Olive W. Burt 524 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago _ 508 Woman's Sphere oo... Ececeeececeecccccceereeeeeseees = -Ramona W. Cannon 509 Editorial: The World-Wide Sisternood oo.. I. Ececceccccec cece ee eete eee seeeeeeseeceseeceeeeoeeeeHelen W. Anderson 510 Dowager Marchioness of Reading Visits in Salt Lake City py Notes To the Field: The Annual Geneial Reliet Society Conference 22... Eeeeccececeeecceeeeeeee By Notes From The Field: Relief Society Activities 22... CccecccccetecceeececceceeceeeeeeseeseceneeeeeesHulda Parker 538 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Northern Mexican Mission Rhoda C. Taylor 514 You Can Sew—VI. Zippers 7 - Jean R. Jennings 521 Sylvia Draper's Hobby Brings Joy to Uthers.- 966 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology—The Desire to Serve in the Gospel Plan Roy W. Doxey 542 Visiting Teacher Messages—'*Remember the Worth of Souls Is Great in the Sight of God"' Christine H. Robinson 548 Work Meeting—Setting Goals in Homemaking.............. Vesta Barnett 550 Literature—Calvinist, Puritan, Pilgzim Briant S. Jacobs 552 Suggested Visual Aids for the Literature Lessons o. I...... Eeecececccseeceeseseeseseecsceeceeceetecseaesceceatoesoneeseeceeeee 558 Music Suggested for the Literature Course...... A. Florence J. Madsen 559 Social Science—''The Law Also Maketh You Free') oo. C. EcecceccceceeececeeceeeteeeeeeeeeJohn Farr Larson 560 POETRY When Threshers Came—Frontispie Ce -...0..... C.. Sccc: cessescececeseeeeseeceseeeeeseeneneeeneseensosenenaAlice Morrey Bailey 489 Heard on Horeb NON ooo cos ceecseecennasasncsonesssaceasacenecess.. Dorothy J. Roberts 499 Wayside Incident -...0....0...... =.! -. Eva Willes Wangsgaard 507 BCRTSM SUITING _........-scesnenecoeoceaceosssoncuscarearenscacensvovserrsncenensseorasnsnorcosasvorsessosensessserenenscscstaesecenceneseFrances C. Yost 512 For a Lace-Maker coccec ee coe aMaryhale Woolsey 515 ELS ise a.....-Linnie F. Robinson 523 Discovery........... A.... Be. Nsneg ptt rasa oven eeaAnna W. Fox 567 Mountain Meadow oo. N. EceeeececccscessecceeceticseceneeseecsecceceessesenseosenensesneetsncseneeseectansensnuceneacecesesetsesEthel Jacobson 568 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at specia] rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October &, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Northern Mexican Mission 20........ Cccccscccecscesececeoresseseseseceeeesoesceeaceceneeeeecees Firnoma Wear, ari Fein,. O.... S. Ccccssceeeetececceee-ncesesteetevece nee ccescesesccccnsssescceeeeneescsensoreecees Birthday Congratulations 0.... Eeeececeecececcceeccececeecceseeneseceeceeccenseeeensecoeeeseeeeneesaesoeeecaaanes Mine Brectksing Gord........ C. C.. Ccstuecsccscsetsesecsccsscececenescesosencntacsasenssececensecees.. Preston R. Nibley 500 490 568....... Margery S. Stewart 507 She Semple in Tlew Lealand Wealtha S. Mendenhall Member, General Board of Relief Society... Shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works... Faith without works is dead (James 2:18, 20). HIS scripture is uppermost in the minds of all the faithful members of this great Church in those beautiful islands that lie anchored in the faraway South Pacific. It was through their combined efforts, sacrifice, and faith that they were able to feel the companionship of the spirit of our Heavenly Father and to receive the needed blessings from heaven to complete the temple of God in New Zealand, at the scheduled time. Brother Wendell B. Mendenhall and I arrived in New Zealand about one week after the banks of the beautiful Waikato River had overflowed, due to continued heavy rains. The work on the temple and college projects had been greatly retarded. A meeting was called on the third of March, and the work yet to be completed on the temple was itemized, along with the approximate number of hours it would take to do the work. It was found that there were not enough days left to complete the buildings at the scheduled time and that it would be necessary to work around the clock. A meeting of all those working on the project was called that evening and future plans were then discussed. There were those with little faith who said, "It can't be done," but those faithful labor missionaries and members of the mission said, "T will shew thee my faith by my works, this is the work and house of the Lord, it will be completed!" Page 492 At that meeting, which was also a family night, all the saints living on the grounds, about 500, gathered together, all knelt in prayer and thanked our Father in heaven for his blessings unto them and prayed for assistance, renewed energy, and health. 'These people were certain their prayers would be answered, and the next morning at daylight they were at work with happy hearts, singing as they went about their duties. One morning about 2 A. M. We noticed lights near the temple on the highway and immediately went to investigate. There we found the cement crew mixing cement, and our labor missionaries, as well as some proselyting elders, actually running with wheelbarrows of cement to make a curb in order that the road crew could move in the next day. They were working by the light of a truck. Lights were burning in the temple. There we found walls were being washed, the baptistry was being cleaned, those beautiful oxen were actually bronze again and looked as though they were proud of the fact. Wallpaper was still being hung, lights installed, and tile was being laid. It was really a beehive of activity in the wee hours of the morning, and on and on it went until just a very few minutes before the opening of the temple to the public at 10 A. M. In the morning of March 22, 1958. We all rushed to our homes to dress for our assignment as guides THE TEMPLE IN NEW ZEALAND 493 Ted Cannon THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE AND SURROUNDING LANDSCAPE Tuhekaramea, Near Hamilton to take the tours through the temple. We then went back to Temple Hill, turned to look over the valley, and there we saw what had always been a two-way highway packed with automobiles three and four deep, all going in one direction. This was the sight as far as our eyes could see. The parking grounds were filled and people were standing in line several deep from the Bureau of Information, across the street to the corner, and to the back door of the temple. (We went in the back door and out of the front door. ) There was a guide for about every fifteen people at first, but on the days we had 10,000 visitors, or during the Easter week end w hen there were 30,000, there was a guide for about every fifty to one hundred visitors. HEN I saw this vast group of people not of our faith, flocking to the temple of their own free will and choice, it reminded me of the missionary days of Brother Mendenhall in that same area. He said that he had stood on the street corners in that city and talked night after night and hardly a_ person would stop to hear his message, and now, today, our hearts were full. Guides were instructed not to discuss the gospel doctrines with their guests in the temple but let the spirit of their Heavenly Father talk to them, his children. They were given a lecture in the Bureau of Information Building concerning the gospel and what to expect to see on their tour of the temple, also they were given literature on the various rooms and they were advised to compare it with the poster in each room. We were instructed on what to do in the temple, but what were we to do the half hour or the three hours we were standing in line? You 494 guessed it—we talked! But we talked of the project, our forest, the timber, the mill, the cement plant, the making of the cement blocks on the grounds for the buildings, and then how it was made and sent to other islands for use in chapels. We told them of the training and supervision of the local labor missionaries and of the farms. When a gospel question was asked, it was answered briefly, and then we inquired in turn as to the visitor's belief on the question. It was all very interesting. A wonderful class of people visited the temple. 'There were tours of bankers, schoolteachers, Rotarians, Lions, Government officials, and others. 'They were all very pleased and actually elated over what they saw and the feeling they had while on the tour. One man, a banker, had tears rolling from his cheeks as he said, "I have never had this feeling before in my life. I wish with all my heart that everyone in the world could feel the way I do at this exact minute." He returned several times and became interested in the gospel. Many people returned and brought their friends. When some of the women came to the Celestial Room, they were overcome with its beauty, the delicate apricot walls and thick carpet, the deeply upholstered furniture in matching colors and in gold, the chandeliers with their many lights, and the draperies hanging in deep folds. They actually couldn't speak, but put their hands to their faces and said, "Oh, oh, oh," as they wept silently. 'They were also impressed with the words on the poster in that room. It read: ""To live in the presRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 ence of God as a family unit is the reward for a righteous life.' Many questions were asked about it after we were once again on the outside of the temple. THE Baptismal Room, in which there was the huge font resting on the backs of twelve bronze oxen, symbolic of the 'Twelve Tribes of © Israel, and the well-lighted mural of the baptizing of the Savior by John, was another highlight for our guests. In fact, it was very difficult to move the visitors on. This appeared to be something new to them, and it was a sight to behold. The landscape gardening caused much comment. Brother Irvin T. Nelson, landscape architect from Temple Square, worked with the local young men and women. Each tree, shrub, and flower found just the right place to be planted on that rolling mass of green. At night, the flood-lighting system was arranged to illuminate all the exterior from the ground to the top of the 157 foot bronze spire, which gave it a warm glow. From a short distance away, one could see this illuminated edifice reaching toward the canopy of heaven, and it appeared as though it were actually being extended from the heavens and standing in space. Many a heart beat rapidly, many a tear was shed, and there were many renewed determinations to live a better life at the unusual sight. On April 13, 1958, the doors to the temple were closed forever to the public. One hundred twelve thousand and five hundred people had enjoyed the beauty and _ spirit Photograph on opposite page, the Temple in New Zealand, by Ted Cannon. 496 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 GENERAL AUTHORITIES, MISSION OFFICERS, AND CHURCH BUILDING DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS AT THE DEDICATON OF THE NEW ZEALAND 'TEMPLE Left to right: Elder and Mrs. Wendell B. Mendenhall; Elder and Mrs. Albert E. Rosenvall; Elder and Mrs. Marion G. Romney; President and Mrs. David O. McKay; standing back of President McKay, Elder Rulon H. Tingey; Elder and Mrs. Delbert L. Stapley; Elder and Mrs. Gordon B. Hinckley; Elder and Mrs. Ariel S. Ballif; Elder and Mrs. Edward O. Anderson. Of the five-story, seventy-five room edifice, a symbol of faith. N Sunday, April 20, 1958, at ten A. M. The doors were again open, this time for the dedicatory sessions. There were gathered at Tuhekaramea, near Hamilton, for this occasion, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from America, the Pacific Islands, and many parts of New Zealand. The Prophet, Seer, Revelator, and President of the Church, President David O. McKay, was present with his sweet wife, Sister McKay. Also present were Delbert L. Stapley and Marion G. Romney of the Council of the 'Twelve Apostles; Gordon B. Hinckley, Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles; Zelph Y. Erckson, President of the Australian Mission; 'Thomas S. Bingham, treleased President, South Australian Mission; John O. Simonsen, recently appointed President of the South Australian Mission; Charles I. Sampson, President, Samoan Mission; Fred W. Stone, President, Tongan Mission; Ellis Vard Christensen, President, Tahitian Mission; Ariel S. Ballif, President, New Zealand Mission; E. L. Clissold, President, Oahu Stake, Honolulu, Hawaii, and member of the Church Pacific Board of Education; George R. Biesinger, Church Construction Supervisor in New Zealand; Irvin T. Nelson, Landscape Architect of Temple Square in Salt Lake City, Utah, and Landscape Architect for the New Zealand 'Temple and _ College grounds; Wendell B. Mendenhall, Chairman, Church Building Com- THE TEMPLE IN NEW ZEALAND mittee, and Chairman of the Church Pacific Board of Education; E. Albert Rosenvall, 'Temple President in New Zealand; Edward O. Anderson, Architect of the New Zealand 'Temple, all with their good wives; William E. Cole, Supervisor Polynesian Section, Genealogical Society; Rulon H. Tingey, traveling secretary; Ted Cannon of the Deseret News; Gordon C. Young, President, New Zealand Missionary Society; Charlotte Sheffield, Miss United States of America, and 143 returned New Zealand missionaries and __ their Wives. HERE were two dedicatory sessions a day for four days, one at 10 A. M. And one at 2:30 in the afternoon. 'The program for these sessions is shown at the bottom of this page. The same songs were sung in every meeting, but by different choirs of the New Zealand Mission. There were five different soloists: Joan Pearse, Mary 'Thatcher, Grace Westlake, Mark Metekingi, and James Puriri, Jr. All sang with reverence and much feeling. President David O. McKay offered the same dedicatory prayer at each session, it being a masterpiece. Even at the end of the last day we were finding beautiful thoughts with special meaning which we had not 497 found before, but will be long remembered. The first session was for the official group, mission presidencies, district presidencies, branch _presidencies, and quorum presidencies and their wives. It was conducted by President David O. McKay, invocation by E. Albert Rosenvall; Region Gat Choir furnished the music. Speakers were Ariel S. Ballif, Wendell B. Mendenhall, and Marion G. Romney; the dedicatory prayer by President McKay; and the benediction by Rulon H. Tingey. The second session was for temple builders, all Zion and labor missionaries and families; the third session was for the Australian saints, New Zealand proselyting missionaries, and New Zealand members of the Church; the fourth session included Samoan saints and Waikato District of the New Zealand Mission; the fifth session was held for the saints of the Tongan Mission and _ those from America; the sixth session was attended by seven of the New Zealand districts; the seventh was for members of nine New Zealand districts; and the eighth was a Maori session. The choir for the second session was composed of temple builders and labor missionaries. It had reSINGIN g «2... Eeeeeeeeeee cence cece ce ceeneeceeeeetseeeecees EE ee aElder Invocation UGTA G...-.---.-.-----eanccacanencnnneneeeecececreeceneeecenees Remarks SSC) Remarks Remarks and Dedicatory Prayer -................-.. Hosanna Shout............-....------------eeeeeeeeee-eeSINQING on. Eee eceeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeneeecceeeeeeeeneesseeeees Benediction Pon, aePresident David O. McKay Led by President David O. McKay and Elders ae"Hosanna Anthem" THE TEMPLE IN NEW ZEALAND ceived much publicity in New Zealand. The singers were by invitation guest artists at a musical talent night in Auckland, New Zealand. They also responded to the invitation to sing for the Queen Mother on her arrival in New Zealand and she personally spoke to them and thanked them for their beautiful singing. Still, when they sang at the dedication of the temple, they sang as I had never heard them sing before; their hearts and souls were full to overflowing, and when they sang the words ""The house of the Lord is completed, may this offering by Him be accepted, Amen, Amen," their heads were high, but tears were streaming down their cheeks. They literally meant every word. It was by faith with works that they were able to complete the temple and to offer it unto him. One could plainly hear a pleading in their words and voices to accept of their offering— the temple. At this session I saw in the choir a young Maori labor missionary who had worked on the temple. He had placed block upon block with great care, with gentleness, almost with reverence, grateful for the opportunity to help build the House of the Lord. I saw and heard this young man just before dedication, stand and bear his testimony. He said, "When I was working on the 499 temple [ little realized that I would be counted worthy to enter it after completion, though I have never done anything very wrong, but just felt I was not good enough. I was building for others," he said. He couldn't speak, he cried aloud and unashamed, then he raised his head and said, "This morning I was given a recommend — I am going to the House of the Lord and be married for time and all eternity to my wife and have our children sealed to us. This is the happiest day of my life." This boy as he sang in the choir that day was putting his heart into every word he uttered. At the close of the last meeting all said, "Amen." All were filled with unspeakable joy for the blessings of the past four days. All were so very grateful that the Lord did guide the descendants of Father Lehi to the beautiful islands of the South Pacific and that the gospel was taught to them, that they had lived according to its teachings and increased in membership until the Prophet of the Church, President David O. McKay, had seen fit to visit their lands, that they were able to show their faith by their works in erecting a temple, a house of God, a holy abode, a symbol of faith. May God bless and keep these wonderful people of the South Pacific. Photograph on opposite page, the Celestial Room in the New Zealand Temple, by Ted Cannon. _- Heard on Hloreb Dorothy J]. Roberts Planets of my placing sail your evening; On the wide wings I have feathered my name And fingered with my giving, the sand-saharas with Unlidded beauties—lizard in sheath and lily in tapering leaf. She llorthern TTlexican Tllission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian T a conference of saints and missionaries, held in Mexico City on June 10, 1956, under the direction of Elder Harold B. Lee and Elder Spencer W. Kimball, of the Council of the Twelve, the Mexican Mission was divided and the Northern Mexican Mission was formed. The new mission embraced the towns and cities of Mexico lying north of an imaginary line, drawn from near the town of T'epic on the west coast, directly eastward to the Gulf of Mexico. In this territory it was estimated that there were 3,009 members of the Church, located in thirty branches. Elder Joseph Taylor Bentley was chosen as the first president of the Northern Mexican Mission, with Eliseo 'Trevino as his first and Von Lloyd Sorenson as his second counselor. Robert Grant Taylor was named as the mission secretary. Approximately seventy missionaries who had formerly labored in the Mexican Mission were transferred to the Northern Mexican Mission. The headquarters of the new mission was established at Monterrey, and a suitable mission home was acquired in that ctiy. A very successful youth conference was held in Monterrey, during the last week of July 1957. Approximately 250 youthful members of the Church attended and took part in this delightful event. Photograph submitted by Rhoda C. Taylor DETALLES DEL TROPICO, TAMPICO, MEXICO Page 500 THE NORTHERN MEXICAN MISSION 501 Photograph by Rhoda C. Taylor PLAZA IN SAN LUIS POTOSI IN NORTHERN MEXICO President Bentley served as president of the Northern Mexican Mission until December 1957, when he was called by the First Presidency to serve as an assistant to President Ernest L. Wilkinson at the Brigham Young University. He was succeeded by Harvey H. Taylor of Dublan, Mexico. Counselors to President Taylor were Hector 'Trevino and Jerry K. Clayton, with Kenneth May as the mission secretary. In a tragic automobile accident, which took place near Mexico City on May 18, 1958, President Claudious Bowman of the Mexican Mission was killed. Shortly thereafter President Harvey H. Taylor of the Northern Mexican Mission was called to take President Bowman's place. It was then announced that Israel Ivins Bentley had been appointed president of the Northern Mexican Mission. On March 31, 1958, there were 4,060 members of the Church in this mission, located in forty-three branches. Thirty-seven Relief Society organizations, with 697 members, were reported by Kathleen Bentley in December 1957. Following Sister Bentley, Rhoda C. Taylor presided over the Northern Mexican Relief Society for a short time. Anna Walser Bentley is the recently appointed Relief Society president. Note: The Cover for this Magazine "Vista of Monterrey, Northern Mexico," was submitted by Rhoda C. Taylor. See also "Recipes From the Northern Mexican Mission," by Sister Taylor, page 514. &veryday Life in Colonial New &ngland (1620-1781 ) Part 1. Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Illustrations by Virginia Sargent What do you see, William Bradford, Looking landward, looking seaward, From the dunes? ROM the beachhead of Plymouth Bay, William Bradford could see a _ wilderness of ocean, three months wide, between him and a religiously turbulent motherland; looking landward, beyond the sand dunes, lay a wilderness of trees, silent and unexplored. He could not foresee the miracle of dominion over resources of land, of sea, and of air that would eventually transform such wilderness into urban America. What he and his companion Separatists of 1620 did envision, was a community of saints living according to the Bible's word. The story of colonization is the story of the flexible, the resourceful, the willing, and courageous. Such were these strangers to New England shores who left so deep an imprint on what we call the American way of life. We know some of them intimately through their own words —a valuable legacy of letters, diaries, sermons, poetry, and historical journals. Although our Pilgrim-Puritan ancestors did not create a great body of distinctive art or sculpture or music, they were literature and history conscious, and they did create a large body of literature. From these writings we can, with reasonable accuracy, visualize the everyday Page 502 ways of early New England. But we must keep in mind when speaking of colonial living that great progress took place in every aspect of life, between the settlement of Plymouth and the close of the Revolutionary War—from wooden mug to silver chalice; from village cooper to skilled cabinetmaker; from bark-covered hut to the colonial brick dwelling with its imported or locally made beautifully designed furniture. 'There were also differences in the various areas of New England during the colonial period. Conditions in the Massachusetts Bay Colony were somewhat different from those of the Rhode Island and Connecticut settlements, and life in the Pilgrim colony of Plymouth varied in several respects from that of Puritan Boston (before they were united in 1692), although less than fifty miles separated them. Therefore, in any attempt briefly to reconstruct this period, many omissions must consciously be made and*many interesting exceptions be lost in generalization. Of Houses To provide temporary shelter was the first concern of our New England settlers, once they had dropped ae —— wy RN a 3 | is i Se on TYPICAL "KEEPING-ROOM" OF EARLY NEW ENGLAND HOME, SHOWING OVEN, COOKING POTS, FIREPLACE, SETTLE, AND CHILD'S CRADLE anchor. But the crude huts and wattle - and - daub cottages with thatched roofs were replaced as soon as possible by more durable frame houses. (Log cabins introduced by the Finns and Swedes did not appear until the eighteenth century. ) When a second room was added to provide more space, the orginal room was called the "keeping-room" or common-room, where all gathered during the day. It was used for cooking, eating, and, usually, for sleeping. Great logs of wood burned in the large fireplace, but even so it was difficult to heat the house when a cold "northeastern" blew. As families grew and more space was needed, a lean-to was built against the back wall. The resulting shape was called a salt-box house, and toward the end of the seventeenth century, houses were intentionally built with that particular shape. To conserve heat, windows were small and were at first glazed with oiled paper. Later, small and expensive glass panes were imported. These diamond-shaped panes were set in strips of lead. Some window glass was being made in glass houses in settlements south of New England before the period closed. Like first houses, first furniture was heavy and simple and durable. The quantity was limited because space was so limited. Often in the early days there were no chairs, or perhaps one only for the goodman of the family. Stools and long benches were common, and there was a narrow bench called a settle with a high, solid back which gave protection from cold winter drafts. Trestle tables were narrow and long to seat as many as possible. Later, to save space, ladder-back chairs were often hung up on wall pegs EVERYDAY LIFE IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 503 504 Qo We =a ARGENT 2 —_ Bi eer' en WOMAN POUNDING SAMP when not in use. The first houses had no closets; linen and blankets were stored in chests, which at first had no drawers. In order to save space, the gateleg and other folding tables came into the furniture picture. Some beds were hinged and could be raised out of the way during the daytime. In the first one-room houses a "jack bed," built in one corner, requiring only one supporting post, was high enough to allow a child's low trundle bed to be pushed under it daily and pulled out at night. Eighteenth century fourposters also accommodated the trundle bed. 'The baby's cradle would be placed near the fire. Wintertime bed warming was done by passing a brass or copper, long-handled warming pan containing live coals, between the sheets. Enterprising settlers who acquired wealth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 earlier, acquired comfort and luxuries earlier, Mistress Anne Bradstreet, who came on the Arbella in 1630, known in the colonies and in England for her poetry, enjoyed all the comforts early colonial New England could offer. There is an interesting story of furniture development, through chairs, tables, beds, and chests, from the heavy wainscot and Brewster chairs of Plymouth, to the fine furniture of the late colonial period. Books of furniture designs, printed in England by 'Thomas Chippendale (1754), by Andrew Heppelwhite (1788), and by Thomas Sheraton (1795), were used by colonial cabinetmakers to produce much fine furniture for the homes of prosperous New Englanders near the close and immediately following the colonial period. Of Light Since there were no matches and starting a fire was difficult, effort was made to keep a fire going all the time. Fireplace embers were banked to preserve live sparks, but when fanning and puffing could not coax them into flame, a child carrying a long-handled fire scoop would be sent to a neighbor's to borrow a few live coals. When necessary to start from "scratch," new fire could be made by striking flint against steel, the resulting sparks being allowed to fall into easily ignited shreds of linen. Paper was far too valuable to be used as tinder. 'Tinder, with its associated flint and steel, was kept in a metal tinder box, which frequently had a candle socket on its lid so that the fire once started might be kept aflame. EVERYDAY LIFE IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND Except for pine torches, all house lighting was obtained by burning fat or wax. Commonest perhaps was the rush light—grease-saturated pith of a rush, held between the pinching jaws of a metal holder, so that the projecting end could be lighted. Holders for the rush light were of various types and shapes: with bases to sit on a table, spikes to be driven into a beam, hooks to hang from a shelf, and even legs to stand on. Betty-lamps were also used extensively, though our forbears complained constantly of the ill-smelling oil. These were shallow, greasefilled metal dishes with a lid and a lip from which a linen wick extended. A chain with a hook or spike at the end made it possible to hang it from a beam or shelf. Candles were scarce at first and so were used sparingly. Resourceful settlers soon found that the wax of bayberries, growing wild on the hillsides, made excellent, sweet-smelling candles. Rush light, betty-lamp, and candle—yet often the hearth fire from the wide, friendly fireplace was the only light in the large commonroom after sundown. Of Food Our colonial forefathers owed much to Indian corn for their survival during the first few difficult years. For long periods in the very early days the fare was little else than corn, and it was the mainstay throughout the country during the entire seventeenth century. Indians taught the settlers how to plant, cultivate, grind, and cook corn, but resourceful housewives, adding milk and eggs, soon served dishes from recipes of their own devising. Com was ground into meal; 505 WOODEN TRENCHER WITH SPOON hulled and eaten whole as hominy, eaten green, and roasted in its own husks. Stored in attics after harvest, it would be brought down to the common-room to be shelled before grinding. Picture the "small fry" on long winter evenings remoying the kernels by scraping the ears against the sharp edge of a shovel. Samp was the name given to porridge made from coarsely broken corn kernels. 'lhe samp was pounded in a hollow post called a mortar, a pestle being tied to a bent-over sapling. 'The housewife pounded the pestle down, the sapling lifted it — a noisy process consuming hours of time. Ever hear of pumpkin bread? Pumpkin, another useful native vegetable, was sometimes mixed with corm meal to make pumpkin bread. The Puritans also ate honey, and, (later, molasses), maple sap boiled into sugar, and English fruits and vegetables. 'There was plenty of fresh meat and fish in season, and salted, smoked, or pickled meat and fish at other times. Cow's milk was indeed scarce, for we read that ten years after the settling of Plymouth there were only three cows in all New England. Samuel Sewall of Massachusetts, who kept a fascinating, though somewhat naive diary, throughout 506 his long and busy life, records this dietary item on 'October 1, 1697: "Had first butter, honey, curds and cream. For dinner, very good Rost lamb, turkev, fowls, Aplepy." Salt, highly valued because it was imported, was put in a large saler (a stemmed salt dish) in the middle of the table, according to Medieval custom. Individual salt cellars had not yet appeared on seventeenth century tables, and we read _ that social rank was still indicated by one's position above or below the salt. The fireplace masonry was designed for cooking as well as for room warmth. Provision was made for suspending pots for cooking, and sometimes a swinging crane allowed hot kettles to swing out into the room beyond the fire. A small secondary fireplace with a flue of its own leading into the main chimney was built as part of the main fireplace. This was the oven, and in the early days its doors were of wood or clay, in the 1800's they were hinged and of iron. A roaring fire was maintained in the oven on bread-baking days until its walls were extremely hot. After supper the embers were scraped out, the flue closed, and some _ leaves spread upon its floor. The loaves were then slid in on a flat wooden shovel called a peel or slice — the loaves slipped off onto the leaves. The oven door was closed and the housewife could sleep peacefully to find her baked loaves crisp and brown in the morning. Although most meat was roasted, this was a great time for stews, or "spoon meat." Interesting and familiar are pictures of meat roasting in the fireplace, a child turning the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 spit, a shallow pan on the hearth to catch the drippings. Hearth cooking necessitated special types of cooking utensils. Pots and pans were of great variety, usually with long handles. Skillets, called spiders, and bake kettles sat up above the embers on legs. High trivets set by the fire were useful in keeping pots of food warm until served. Because people ate many foods with their fingers or with a knife, clean linen napkins were much needed. In the first years of settlement most of the dishes were made of wood. 'There were trenchers (plates), bowls, spoons, and noggins (a sort of mug). A trencher, easily made from a thick square of wood, was hollowed out like a shallow soup bowl, and though a man and wife would probably have separate trenchers, two children often shared one. Pewter dishes followed those made of wood as commerce with England and Holland increased. Spoons were made of both wood and pewter. When silver dishes and utensils were available, pewter continued in ordinary use even by the well-to-do. "Sad ware" referred to flat, handhammered pewter pieces such as plates and platters, while bowls and porringers, cast in molds, were known as hollow ware. Often a family would lend its spoon mold to neighbors so they could make their own replacements. Later in the colonial period, silver came into its own and much beautiful silver was made by the Boston silversmiths, among them John Hull and, later, Paul Revere. Mealtime in New England households found the goodman and his older boys seated at the table with their hats on. Hat wearing indoors, even at church, was customary everywhere during the seventeenth century. If a daughter was old enough to serve the meal, or if the family had a serving wench, the wife also sat down, next to her husband. Standing at the table, or at a separate nearby table, were the children, eating in complete silence the food served to them. Each person had his own knife, and although Governor Winthrop is said to have owned a fork, few people in the 1600's had ever seen or used one. We may well say, "Fingers were made before forks." (To be concluded) > She Brea h ing Cord Margery S. Stewart My son, how can we reconcile the two, The humming eagerness of wings Within you, my parental tether Woven of stabbing fears and strings Of love? I would we be together, But every plane, for you, sings Like a Lorelie, a haunting new Refrain, and every road's bend Holds adventure. I see the child, But you feel the man within, New, deeply potential, undefiled, And you would bring him swiftly to begin His living. But what chance has a wild Thing in the city? I would be no friend To loose you now, untrained upon the land; The fastest plane must have the surest hand, Wa yside Yneident Eva Willes Wangsgaard She stood in the meadows, another flower, Taller than yarrow, but not so high As the pasture lily's ivory tower Rising so slenderly toward the sky. A small girl-child with hair like dawn; A red-gold carrot held in her hand, Offering friendliness to a fawn, Certain a playmate would understand. The human young, the young of the deer, Communicated there heart to heart, One sun-warm moment they stood real near, Then anxious mothers snatched them apart. EVERYDAY LIFE IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 507 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL NATIONS" CURRENT HISTORY: 'There was never a time in the world's history so full to overflowing of matters of great importance as the present and especially this year, the world over teems with interesting and even exciting conditions and circumstances, and those who live today cannot fail to be impressed with the stirring events that cast their shadows all about us, making one feel alive to the very center of his being.... —KEditorial by Emmeline B. Wells RELIEF SOCIETY IN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS: I attended several of the meetings of the little branch of the Relief Society... Held in private homes among the sisters who belong to the Society. It numbers about fourteen members... Who as a tule are all present except in cases of sickness. 'Their president, a very estimable woman is a Sister Smith who a few years back was a resident of Nephi (Utah).... She is well qualified for the position she occupies, intelligent, modest and warm-hearted, and has the respect of those who preside in the branch. Their secretary, Sister Ericksen, is a very efficient secretary, punctual and orderly, and in short it was a group of sisters in whose company I enjoyed myself very much. Their methods of meeting were of the same order as we have at home.... —H. S. THE RED CROSS The heaven-born thought that gave it birth, Encircles now the sea and earth, Its human hand with potent stroke The echoes of the world awoke, Till every heart is touched by human woe And thrills responsive, be it friend or foe. 7 —Ellis R. Shipp SUNBONNETS: One of our widowed sisters who has to support herself is making by hand neat sunbonnets, very pretty and serviceable, and is anxious to dispose of them. 'They are suitable for school children or for smaller ones playing outdoors, and for the girls and women rusticating in the mountains or in the country elsewhere, or for outdoor flower gardening or fruit gathering. The sister lives at 233 "B" Street. —Editorial Note SAMOA: So little you hear of Samoa and so many elders have been here proclaiming the gospel, and our mission has been organized eleven years, during that time there have been one hundred and nine missionaries, so we are now a thoroughly organized mission.... There are at present twenty-seven elders and three sisters laboring on the islands of Samoa.... I have had a class in sewing and crochet work, they (the sisters of the islands) pick it up very readily.... —Severne Snow Witbeck Page 508 ME. LILLIAN E. RIGGS, in her seventies and a widow for eight years, is owner of the 7,000 acres of Faraway Ranch, in the old Apache country of Arizona, bordering on Mexico. For sixteen years she has been totally blind. Yet, instead of turning over the management of her ranch to others, she has continued it herself, using a welltrained horse as her "seeing eye" animal and asking many questions of her sighted assistants, in order to make her important decisions. She often knows the exact spot where she is on the ranch by the feeling that comes to her. She cooks and does housework, especially when she has a houseful of guests and boardes. M*:: BILLIE RUPLE UNTERMANN, a geologist of Vernal, Utah, was recently featured in an article appearing in Geotimes, a national scientific publication. Mrs. Untermann received her M. A. Degree in geology at the University of California, and was curator of the geology museum there for five years. With her husband, Dr. Ernest Untermann, who is director of the Utah Field House of Natural History at Vernal, Mrs. Untermann has made a special study of Dinosaur National Monument and has been co-author of several scientific papers on this region, which was her childhood home. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MP:: AMINA EL-SAID is an Egyptian journalist and editor of Eve, a magazine with a circulation of 100,000. She also broadcasts over the radio and writes a column called "Ask Me" for Al Mossawar, a political and social weekly dealing with contemporary problems of international scope. Married to a science educator at Cairo University, Mrs. Said is the mother of two sons and a daughter. RS. GLADYS MICKELS, who has been a Morse Code telegraph operator for more than forty years, recently retired. One of the few remaining women in this profession, Mrs. Mickels' career began in Bancroft, Idaho. One of the first messages she received was "The Armistice has been declared — November 11, 1918." ELL MURBARGER, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, whose home is in Costa Mesa, California, has recently published a new book Sovereigns of the Sage, which relates the fascinating life stories of miners, ranchers, hermits, and philosophers of the Southwest. Well known as "The Roving Reporter of the Southwest," Mrs. Murbarger in a previous book, Ghosts of the Glory Trail, related the history of towns and cities which are now only ruins in the desert country. Page 509 EDITORIAL m2 VOL. 45 AUGUST 1958 NO. 8 She World-Wide Sisterhood. If ye are not one ye are not mine (D & C 38:27). HEN in Germany several years ago, we met some Relief Society sisters who could not understand the language of our native tongue, nor we theirs, yet the light in their eyes, the clasp of the hand, and the smile upon their lips spoke only of the sisterhood between us. The same understanding and love for each other passed between us, even though words spoken were not understood. We experienced this same sublime feeling of tenderness in Hawaii when visiting with the Chinese, Japanese, Hawaiian, and Filipine sisters there. We knew the thoughts and feelings of each other in the warm smile and the handclasp, though our words were not understood. A picture in The Relief Society Magazine of the Hawaiian Singing Mothers in their white blouses seen by the sisters in Brazil causes their hearts to swell with joy. Two visiting teachers tell of visiting several Spanish-speaking sisters on their visiting teaching district each month. On the very first visit to them, the warmth of the sisterhood which exists among our dear sisters of Relief Society, was manifest and interlaced itself among them. In a report from the New Zealand Mission Relief Society President, several years ago, we read: "I often tell the Maori members of our wonderful President, and they Page 510 are always interested. We are 10,000 miles away, but we are thinking of you and praying for you always." Accomplishments of Relief Society s'sters in Finland are of great interest to the members in Yuma, Arizona, and to all Relief Society members. Our hearts are made to rejoice as we understand that the thoughts of the sisters in all parts of the world, are a composite of the same spirit. The sisters of South Africa, Australia, Alaska, Canada, and all parts of the world have the same purposes — the same desires to serve — to strengthen their testimonies. All are anxious for the welfare of each other; regardless of the country in which we may live, we have the same desire for their progress as we have for our own. Reports from the far-flung missions of the Church intimate that the Relief Society women of the different nationalities are endeavoring to carry out the complete program of Relief Society in their own countries. 'They, too, pray for:. Faith, tenderness, sympathy, and compassion — that they may always act according to the will of God (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 18). They, too, strive for the spiritual and educational development which our women of Relief Society are endeavoring to attain. Jesus said, "... If ye are not one EDITORIAL ye are not mine" (D & C 38:27). We are one, one in purpose and one in faith. The same faith and devotion is demonstrated by the Relief Society sisters today as was demonstrated by those eighteen women of the Relief Society when it was first organized in Nauvoo— all are Priesthood-directed, all share 511 This unity and love in Relief Socicty have been a leavening force and have truly brought an equality of dignity and sisterhood into the lives of the sisters world-wide, and the joy expressed by the sisters surely must, as Alma says, prove to us that the gospel gives to our lives its full meaning and brings joy here the same blessings, benefits, and reand _ hereafter. Wards in the gospel. The same compassionate services are rendered to those in need. "A ministering angel shall my sister be" (Hamlet). We are reminded of the scripture "For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things" (D & C 78:6). There is no friend like a sister, In calm or stormy weather, To cheer one on the tedious way, To fetch one if one goes astray, To lift one if one totters down, To strengthen whilst one stands. —Christina Rossetti, from "Goblin Market" —H. W. A. -<—-o— Dowager Waal ones of Reading Vee. Om Salt Lake City. Utah OWAGER Marchioness of Reading, G. B. E., C. St. J., was a recent visitor to Salt Lake City, Utah. She came to the city to see "what makes the Mormons tick." Through acquaintance with a few Latter-day Saints in England, she "felt compelled to come to Salt Lake City." The General Board of Relief Society was honored to entertain Lady Reading. She spoke at a reception given for her in the Relief Society Building where she told of the work being done in England by the Women's Voluntary Services which Lady Reading founded in 1938. It performed outstanding wartime service with one and a quarter million volunteers. Presently, with a half million volunteers, it carries forward a humanitarian program which includes placing help in homes needing assistance and providing a cooked meal every other day for persons confined to their homes in need of this service. 'Through this vital assistance, termed "meals on wheels," older people are able to continue living in their own homes. Lady Reading, in her talk, spoke of the great part which volunteer effort has in the English pattern of life, stating that ninety-one per cent of criminal cases are tried by volunteer justices and that hospital management and local government are run completely by volunteers. While the guest of Relief Society, President Spafford accompanied Lady Reading through Welfare Square and showed her a typical Latterday Saint meetinghouse. They attended the Tabernacle Choir broadcast after which Lady Reading spoke to the choir, expressing her pleasure at hearing them. 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 Lady Reading gives of herself unselfishly and is one of the great women of the world today. In manner she is modest and unassuming, but in her speech— sparkling and dynamic — she reveals the strength, sincerity, and singleness of high purpose which has molded her life's pattern into that of a woman dedicated to the service of those less fortunate. Before her return to England in June, she was given an honorary doctorate degree from Yale University. She was similarly honored in 1956 by Smith College. Lady Reading's husband, now deceased, was an honored servant of England. Twice he was Lord Chief Justice of England, was Ambassador to the United States, and Viceroy of India. Lady Reading's expression becomes lighted when she speaks of her beloved husband and his great work. During Lady Reading's visit she was privileged to meet the First Presidency and expressed herself as looking forward to meeting President McKay during his visit to England where he will dedicate the London Temple on September 7, 1958. > Wotes. TO THE FIELD She Annual General Reliof Society Conference "THE Annual General Relief Society Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 8th and oth, 1958. 'The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 8th, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning October 8th, from 10 to 12 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October goth, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 8th, from 7 to 10 in The Relief Society Building. — > ate Summer Frances C. Yost Late in the summer, there has come a day More lovely than the others; a day caught In an enchantment beyond time and place. The earth, the sky, the sea of deeper hues, Are windless yet alive. My eyes traverse Like birds across the far expanse of space, And viewing all, my heart desires no change. Honor Shy Father and Shy Mlother Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Exodus 20: 12). Hy Father, and Mother Be Honest vith Yourself LL who dwell upon the earth are following in various stages of their journey the path between the pre-existent life and the eternities to come. Thus earth life is but one part of a spiritual progression in our long seeking for greater perfection. The youth of the earth are looking forward along a lighted path where they have never been before, and older people are looking back along the earth path where they have already walked in hope and faith, a path now known to them, its pitfalls and its satisfaction known, its signposts noted. Throughout the ages, the youth of the earth, eager for learning and experience, have at times resented the guidance which sometimes has appeared to them as being too freely offered. Yet, it would be well if all children, older children and younger children, who are blessed with living parents and the abiding memory of loved ones gone, mht recall and consider the inescapable fact that their parents are but earlicr travelers on the life path, and their counsel is offered from the wider range of wisdom acquired through living. As children mature and seek their life companions and the work which seems to fulfill their talents and their preferences, then the counsel of parents may be as a rod of strength in a place where young people encounter shifting beliefs and social change. A truly wise and understanding parent will not seek to make his sons and daughters replicas of himself, but rather will try to direct his children into paths of personal fulfillment in harmony with personal abilities and needs. Wise are the parents who have illuminated the path ahead for their sons and daughters from earliest childhood, by teaching such fundamental attitudes and habits as reverence for the commandments of God, prayer, virtue, kindness and consideration for others, order, and industry. The honor which parents receive in gratitude and joy in their posterity, is usually the result of wise training which they have given their children in all the years of their development. For them the ancient commandment has been enlarged and glorified by the deep love and the continuing appreciation which flow freely from the hearts of the children to their honored parents. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 513 Recipes From the Tlorthern Mlexican Mission Submitted by Rhoda C. Taylor CAjETA 2 qts. Milk 1 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 Ib. Sugar % tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Vanilla Bring the milk to a boil and add the other ingredients, except the vanilla, and boil until a syrup-like consistency is formed. At first stir only occasionally. As it gets thicker, stir more often. Add the vanilla and cool. ESPANADAS (Baked Turnovers) 3c. Flour 1 gs % c. Shortening 2 tbsp. Sugar % c. Milk % tsp. Salt Sift flour with sugar and salt three times. Add shortening and beaten egg. Then add milk gradually. Mix well and kneed to form a soft and smooth dough. Roll thin and cut in rounds. Place a little of the filling on the rounds and fold moistened edges together, pressing well. Brush with beaten egg and bake for ten minutes at 450 degrees, then reduce to 350 degrees for the time needed to cook through thoroughly. (The filling usually consists of cooked fish, but the following is good, too.) 3 Bermuda onions 4 hard-boiled eggs 4 tbsp. Oil 3 tbsp. Water 3 red canned pimentos salt and pepper to taste 1 c. Grated cheese Chop onion and boil until transparent. Drain and cook in the oil, being careful not to let it brown. Remove from fire and add grated cheese, chopped pimentos, chopped eggs, and salt and pepper. Should the mixture be too dry add a little more oil. CALABACITAS PICADAS (Chopped Summer Squash) 4 c. Chopped green summer squash 1 tbsp. Minced onion 4 c. Chopped tomatoes 1 clove garlic minced (optional) corn from two ears 4 tbsp. Olive oil 1 green pepper 1 pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese Clean and boil the green pepper and cut in thin strips. Boil corn for five minutes. Oil a casserole dish and place in alternate layers the squash, tomatoes, onion, garlic, corn, green pepper strips, salt, pepper, and oil. Cover and bake in hot oven until squash is done. Serve hot, garnished with crumbled cream cheese. CHILAQUILOS (Chili and Cheese Casserole ) 10 tortillas 3 c. Ground meat (beef, pork, chicken) 1 c. Cream 2 tbsp. Minced onion 3 green chili (canned may be used) 2 c. Grated cheese 2 c. Tomatoes Fry the tortillas in deep fat (not crisp), then put them in the cream. Grind the meat, add minced onion, shredded chili, from which the veins and seeds have been Page 514 RECIPES FROM THE NORTHERN MEXICAN MISSION 515 removed, grated cheese, and tomatoes and salt to taste. Put the tortillas in the bottom of a casserole dish, add the other ingredients, and pour over the top the cream left from the tortillas. Bake one hour in a moderate oven. PASTEL DE PoOBRE (Meat and Cheese Casserole) 8 tortillas 2 tbsp. Chili powder ¥% c. Minced onion 1 c. Thin sour cream 2 Ibs. Hamburger meat 1 tsp salt ilb. Grated cheese Cut the tortillas in inch cubes and fry in deep fat. Cook the onion in the fat in a skillet until tender. Add the meat, chili powder, and salt, and brown. Add the tortillas and mix with meat mixture. Put a layer of the meat mixture, then a layer of cheese, in an oiled casserole dish, and repeat. Pour the cream over the mixture and bake. TOMATO AND CHICKEN ENCHILADAS tortillas 1 avocado cream cheese 1 onion shredded chicken or ground meat crumbled cream cheese onion rings Sauce 2% c. Tomato sauce 1 tbsp. Minced parsley 2 tbsp. Minced onion 1 tbsp. Chili sauce or powder 1 clove garlic (optional) salt to taste fat for frying Fry onion and garlic in the fat. When soft, add tomato sauce, chili, and parsley. Season with salt and cook gently until thick. Have ready a hot platter. Dip each tortilla in the sauce, fill with some shredded chicken, and roll. Place on platter. After all rolls are on platter, pour the rest of the sauce over them. Just before serving, garnish with crumbled cream cheese, avocado slices, and onion rings. Instead of the chicken, any leftover meat may be used. > Sor a LaceMaker Maryhale Woolsey Finger to finger, bobbins swiftly fly Leading the thread through twist and swirl and knot; Beneath her hands the intricate pattern forms, And in its web her own young dreams are caught. Moment to moment, hour by day by year, Time looms her fate; may it reveal no less, In its complete and sure unfoldment, than Her own creation holds of loveliness! "Not to the Swift" CHAPTER 2 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Julie Markham, whose father died when she was six years old, lives in Chicago with her mother who was once a musician, but is now employed as a secretary. Julie, who had studied voice under Madame Heinrich, is registered in a music school. She finds that Professor Carlson, one of the teachers, is a member of the Church. FTER Sunday School, some of the ward members who sat near Julie and Mr. Carlson introduced themselves. Julie was greeted by many who asked about her mother. "Craig Carlson," Julie heard again and again. "You'll have to call me by my first name at church, anyway." Craig had led the way to the front sidewalk again. "Are you boarding near here?" "No." Julie again was filled with confusion. "I live down in Chicago with my mother. You see, we moved back here when I was around six, just beginning school, so I'm almost a native." "Well, that almost saves you. I have my car just down the-street. I'd like to drive you home." "Oh, no thank you," Julie murmured. "I'm used to taking the elevated, really." Julie was acting awkwardly she knew, but she hurried away across the street to the bus stop. It was silly not to be able to take a casual lift home in stride, but she was naturally shy. 'There had been a boy in high school who had wanted to come to her apartment and study with her, but it interferred with her Page 516 practicing, and he had stopped coming after a few times. She'd had an invitation to the senior dance, too, but she had had to turn that down because of an engagement to sing at the Good Fellowship Club. They paid enough to make it worthwhile, and her mother worked hard getting her the few engagements she had. "The bus is never there when you want it. Climb in, dear; we'll drive you home." It was Bishop Sherman's wife. The children in the back seat squeezed over to make room. "It will take you so far out of your way,' Julie said, but she sat in beside the children. "We enjoy a drive, and Earl had no meeting today. Craig said you lived down in the city; now I'm ashamed to say it, but you'll have to give us your address...." Julie repeated it. Mr. Carlson then had mentioned she needed a ride after she had left him. Well, he needn't trouble himself, though she admitted to herself, that was kind of him. What were they asking about her mother? "Oh, she's fine, very well now. She did have that virus last winter, but we're hoping she'll get through this one without too much trouble, and soon she can come to meetings with me." There were so many nice people whom her mother could talk with and enjoy. It was true that most women had husbands, but there were some older single women, and "NOT TO THE SWIFT" her mother had missed the meetings so much. WR OK OK HAT winter always seemed the happiest that Julie could remember, and before she realized it, it was her second winter at school. The campus slept warmly while Julie shivered in the winter storms, but she was too happy to care. She joined the L. D. S. Club at school, and her mother allowed her to go to an occasional dance at Mutual. "Just so long as your studies don't fall off," her mother warned. Julie reassured her mother happily. Languages had always been easy for her, she had begun them so early because of her singing. And her classes in the school of music were wonderful. But she did have to study for her other courses. "If this weren't one of the best schools of music in the country, I'd have you drop the classes that don't apply directly to your major. Perhaps we should somehow have managed to get you to New York to study, but it's hard for me to give up a good job and start again," Julie's mother confided. Julie felt her heart beat normally again. "Oh, Mother, going summers I'm going to finish a_ year earlier now, and I've already started upper division classes on my major. There's plenty of time for New York. Mr. Carlson said if I'm really ambitious, there are plenty of scholarships available for graduates." "Yes, I know." Her mother massaged the cold cream into her face carefully. "Sing that little 'Lament' again, will you, dear. You know, the little piece by Sandoval. I thought you could do that as your second number at meeting next Sundav night." 7 Craig Carlson often accompanied Julie when she sang in the ward. He was very busy both studying and teaching, and he had begun singing with a quartette on a local television program. Julie's mother nearly always made the effort to go to meeting with Julia, and Craig Carlson often insisted on picking them up and driving them home. "He's a very fine young man," Julie's mother said to her one night after Craig had been up to the apartment for cake after church. He and Julie sometimes sang duets at their own ward and other wards and branches in the stake. "He's a wonderful person," Julie agreed. "I'm sorry I'm no longer an undergraduate, so I can't have him for a teacher anymore. All the girls like him specially, though that's probably because so many of the teachers are older or married or are so temperamental. Mr. Carlson is liked by the fellows, too. I guess because he's always so natural acting. He doesn't stamp his feet or shout if you make a mistake, but he makes you work and like it." "Or call you Fraulein Markham and hit the piano the way Madame Heinrich used to." Julie's mother laughed and started the water running in the bathroom. Julie sat down on the edge of her bed with a start. Madame Heinrich! Oh, how awful. She hadn't thought of her for ages, and she'd promised her so faithfully she'd come by and see her often after she quit taking lessons. Was that really two years ago? All her life it seemed had stood still, waiting, and now it was flying past so fast she could hardly catch her breath. Craig was taking her down to the Wayne Auditorium to sing tomorrow night. 518 Maybe there'd be time to stop at Madame Heinrich's on the way. The phone was ringing, and she picked up the receiver quickly. It was Ted Talbot from the L. D. S. Club at school. Julie had gone to a dance with him at the ward. He was tall and blond and as shy as she was, so she felt very comfortable with him. "The Club party this month is at the Edgewater Beach Hotel — same room as we get for the Gold and Green Balls. I thought — that is, I'd like you to go with me." "T'd love to," Julie assured him happily. She was sure her mother would let her go. After she had done her practicing, her mother would say yes. She didn't have to sing anywhere that night! What would she wear? She had a new dress for tomorrow night at the Auditorium — pale blue and ballerina length. If she wore ballet slippers and rhinestones and all her petticoats maybe it would look "'partyish" enough for next Friday night, too. She had scarcely listened to the details Ted had given her, but there they were — jotted down on the phone pad: Friday night, about half-past eight. Julie slipped into bed and then got out quickly to say her prayers. She had so many things to be thankful for. Then she squeezed down into the bed, missing the hump in the middle and pulled the comforter up to her chin. Now she knew why she had always loved the fairy tales so. At some time, everyone's life must become a little bit of a fairy tale. RAIG was early, just as Julie had hoped he'd be. Julie had mentioned stopping at Madame HeinRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 tich's, and Mary Markham had seemed very pleased. "I'm sure that's thoughtful of you, Julie, and give her my love, too. She's a wonderful woman." "You'll have to point the way," Craig smiled at Julie as he shut her door. "Down here the numbering is wild, and it will save time if I don't have to hunt." "T've been here so many times, I could find it with my eyes shut," Julie assured him. They parked the car in the street and walked to the flat. Julie had tried to tell Craig what a wonderful woman and artist Madame Heinrich was, but he would have to see for himself. She had a good reputation in the city, and she was noted for her integrity. Even Professor Rossi had said that at school. 'They waited at the door of the flat. They could hear music within. Julie should have called. Madame Heinrich had a pupil. "Tll be with you in a minute, my Julie sweet. I've missed you. No, no, sit here, not so dusty." The flat was large, and the rent much higher than the Markham's apartment, but the clutter of piles of music, pictures, and dirty cups made the flat seem more dreary and shabby than Julie remembered. Madame Heinrich was smaller and older, too. Her shapeless dress dragged the floor behind her when she walked. She really needs someone to take care of her, Julie thought. Had she no family, no relatives? She had never seen pictures of them, and she had never heard Madame Heinrich talk of them. The pupil had a beautiful voice, and Julie began to listen intently. I wonder how many pupils Mad- "NOT TO THE SWIFT" ame Heinrich has had who have had better voices than mine, Julie thought. 'Then she felt guilty about thinking such a thing. She must believe in her own talent and future. She had often been assured she had great possibilities, and she loved her music so much. "At last, Julie, and how is your dear Mama? You are lucky to have a Mama so dedicated to your career. You like your school as always?" "Yes, Madame Heinrich," and Julie presented Craig. Madame Heinrich uncovered chairs for them in front of the ashfilled fireplace, and settled herself on a shabby divan. Julie told her about school and the classes she was taking. "Herr Carlson, are you like: Julie, no coffee, no tea?'"" Madame Heinrich was struggling to her feet. "Yes, I'm like Julie in that respect," Craig agreed. Madame Heinrich sank back on the sofa. "Then there is nothing to give you. I do not even have a quart of milk. My milkman comes in the morning. Ah, I know what I'll show you. I have a lovely long letter from a former student who has just given her concert at Town Hall in New York." The letter was most complimentary to Madame Heinrich, and the references to the success of the concert were abundant. "Julie, it's getting late; we should be starting.. Craig had handed the letter back after scarcely glancing at it. — jumped up. It was late. She kissed Madame Heinrich on the cheek, and at the door was kissed twice in return by Madame Heinrich. She stood in the door- 519 way waving goodbye to them in her long, shapeless dark dress, her wispy gray hair thinned about her face. Julie had never thought of her as lonely before, but now she seemed so. She seemed indescribably lonely standing there in her doorway with her hand half raised in salute, and the dusty, empty rooms behind her filled with souvenirs of the past. Why had she never seemed so before to Julie? Was it that Julie had always come and left alone herself? Was it that Julie had been lonely without knowing it? Craig had taken her hand to steady her down the steep stairs. Was it Craig who made her feel sorry for Madame Heinrich? For a moment it became difficult to breathe evenly, simply because he was holding her hand. She had never been aware of him like this before. She averted her face. Her hand meant nothing to him. She must not let him see how she felt. Besides, she didn't know how she felt except that she was being silly over nothing. It was quite dark when they reached Wayne Auditorium, and Julie busied herself smoothing her hair and greeting everyone to whom she was introduced with a radiant smile. She sang "'Alleluja'"' from the Motet Exsultate, K. 165 by Mozart, and, finally, as a last encore, she sang "Juliet's Waltz Song" from Romeo and Juliet, by Gounod. Each time she glanced toward Craig at the piano, his eves were on her. But they were dark and expressionless, and she couldn't guess what he was thinking. Well, it didn't matter. She would sing better than she had ever sung. At least he would have to approve of her singing. They had stayed for the dinner, 520 so it was late before Craig finally drove up before the Markham apartment. Julie knew her mother would be waiting up for her, but she unlocked the downstairs door with a key without ringing the buzzer and stepped into the empty hall with the endless red carpet that stretched through so many Chicago apartment houses. Craig laid his hand lightly on her arm and stopped her at the first flight of stairs. "I almost forgot. I wanted to ask you to the dance at the Edgewater Beach Hotel Friday night." Julie bit her lip in vexation that she had already accepted a date; then she remembered her manners. She explained she'd already accepted 'Ted Talbot. "He's arrived in there ahead of me quite a few times lately. You know, it just occurred to me that we're both starting on our last year here. Ill get my final degree in the spring." "Dr. Carlson," Julie murmured. "And you'll be going on to New York for more study and to have a fling at the professional grind." HY did her heart begin to feel so heavy? She was beginning to feel utterly wretched. "So, if I'm to do any courting, I've only this year in which to do it, Julie," and Craig kissed her full on the lips, so surely and briefly that Julie wasn't sure for a moment it had really happened and that she hadn't dreamed it all. She fairly flew up the rest of the stairs beside him. She went into the apartment alone, without meeting his eyes again. Her mother was in bed, though the lights were on. She slipped into the bathroom and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 stared at herself in the mirror. The kiss didn't show! Except in her eyes and on her cheeks which were extra rosy, she had to admit as an afterthought. She took off her dress and filled the washbowl with warm water. Then a terrible thought struck her. If Craig couldn't take her to the dance, he would be taking another girl, He would take one of the pretty Gleaner Girls from the ward, or maybe Ann Stephens from the club at school. Julie had seen them walking across the campus together several times. Julie began scrubbing her face vigorously with soap and water. Life was terrible; there were so many problems. "Julie, is that you, Julie?" It was her mother calling sleepily from the bedroom. Julie sighed with relief. Her mother was awake. She would tell her everything. She would tell her about this wonderful feeling she had discovered she felt toward Craig tonight, and that he had.... Her mother would have an answer to her problems. Julie buried her face in her pink hand towel and hurried to her mother's bedroom. "Darling." Her mother had dozed off with mounds of letters and catalogues stacked around her, but she roused herself and now spoke sleepily, "Julie, darling, I've been filling out application blanks for a scholarship next year in New York. Now, as I see it, the choice is between the Fuller School of Music where you'd be able to study under...." Julie leaned against the doorway and listened. The sounds of the city softened a little at night, but the muted sounds still went on. There was the clang and bang of a truck "NOT TO THE SWIFT" somewhere, and the screech of buses and trolleys. "You'll have to get busy on your letters of recommendation, Julie, and we'll get everything off early. Maybe you should cut a new record —well, we'll get expert advice about that. Are you listening, dear?" "Yes, Mother, I'll see the teachers at school Monday. Will that be soon enough?" "Fine, fine.' Her mother was putting the papers on the little table beside her bed. "Did you have a nice time? How did you do tonight?" Julie went into the living room and sat on the edge of her bed. "They said everything was excellent, 521 Mother. I've never sung better." She said her prayers quickly and climbed into bed. Now all was dark. The blinds were pulled tight against the street lights and the city signs that blinked back at the stars. It was silly to have a lump in your throat because life seemed confusing, and you weren't sure what was going to happen. Maybe other people were sure what was going to happen to you, but you didn't know. Julie folded her arm under her cheek. Something wonderful had happened to her tonight, she knew it had, and she would never forget it. Then she fell asleep. (To be continued) > You moo = VE Lippers Jean R. Jennings OST dresses and skirts and M mnans others, of our articles of clothing require neat and inconspicuous closings at points where buttons or other fasteners would not be practical. The usual closing of this type is the placket. Since most plackets are closed with slide fasteners, commonly known as zippers, methods for constructing these are important to the home-sewer. They make possible a perfect fit and give a trim, finished look to a garment. 'They are easy to put in and use. Because of their variety in style, material, color, and length, zippers are adapted for use in all types of closings and every sort of fabric. It is extremely important to choose the correct slide fastener for each specific need. A placket should be made to fit as smoothly as a seam so that the perfect fit of the dress is retained. Ixtreme care must be taken to avoid any stretching of edges where a zipper is inserted in order to avoid an unsightly bulge at the bottom of the fastener. Zippers are usually inserted in the seam of dresses, blouses, or skirts as one of two placket types: a lapped seam placket, or a slot seam placket. For most garments, either type will serve. However, the lapped seam method is more generally used for side openings, and the slot seam method for center front or back openings. The garment being made is always carefully fitted before the zipper is inserted. The seam lines of the dress opening form the front and 522 back placket lines, they should be carefully marked with guide _bastings. Seam allowances should always be at least 5/8 inch through the placket area. If, in fitting the dress, the seam allowance has been narrowed, it must be extended again by sewing on a piece of seam tape or a strip of fabric of the dress. A. Skirt placket is generally 7 inches long; a dress placket 10, 12, or 14 inches, usually at least 6 inches of this being in the skirt. 'The exact length is determined by how tightly the bodice and hip areas fit. A snug blouse might require a placket opening that reaches almost to the armhole. On a fitted skirt, the opening reaches a bit below the fullest part of the hips. Following are rules to be noted when making a zipper closing of any type. 1. Zippers should be kept closed when applying and when washing. 2. When stitching the side seam, make the placket opening % inch longer than the metal of the slide fastener to allow for ease. On skirts, allow a % imch longer opening to provide seam allowance for sewing on the band. 3. The seam line at the ends of the placket opening should be secured by backstitching., 4. Complete the waistline seam of a dress—stitching, taping, pressing, and finishing raw edges—before setting in the ZIpper. 5. Use the cording or zipper foot on the sewing machine so the stitching may be made close to the metal. 6. Close the placket opening with a machine basting before inserting the zipper. Lapped Seam Placket Press the seam allowance open until it lies flat. 'Then fold under the back seam allowance % inch from the basted seam line and baste. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 Working from the wrong side, place the creased edge of the back seam allowance over the right side of the zipper and next to the metal teeth. Using a zipper or cording presser foot, stitch directly along the edge of the cloth and next to the metal, easing the fabric to the tape. Continue stitching beyond the end of the metal to the very end of the tape at both ends. While proceeding with the next step, make sure that the % inch of back seam allowance is kept in place under the front seam allowance so that the stitching and zipper remain forward of the basted placket line. Next, with the garment right side out, pull the free front edge of the zipper tape forward and pin from the right side at right angles to the seam line. Make sure that the zipper and ¥% back seam allowance are smooth under the front before you top stitch the placket. Baste, making an even guide line straight and an even distance from the placket line. Using the zipper foot, machine stitch the front of the arment to the tape close to the metal of the zipper. Stitch across the ends and then backstitch to hold firm. Remove the machine basting along the placket line and press over a soft surface. Slot Seam Placket This method is preferred for neck, sleeve, and pocket openings. It may, on occasion, be used for side seams of blouses and some dresses. In a blouse, the open end of the zipper is placed at the bottom instead of the top. Machine baste on the seam line YOU CAN SEW—y, 13" Fold Ow turn the Satment Tight side Out and baste It to the Zipper tape Silent, Passive and dulled to pain, I kept the needle Oing through While h td on th indow Pounded Oses, lilies, ang nemone r, 523 Sat and sewe aS they read the Words; SS€ Were flowers I would Temember Elizabeth's Children Olive W. Burt CraprTer § (Conclusion) Synopsis: Carol Wilson, an artist on the staff of a magazine edited by Brent Gibson, went to Wyoming to attend the funeral of her sister Elizabeth. She felt a deep sympathy for the motherless children, and decided to go back to them, however, she found them well cared for. Fred, Carol's brother-in-law, had become interested in a kindly neighbor, Dolly Graham, and Dolly's brother Tony declared his love for Carol. However, Brent Gibson telephoned, asking Carol to return to the city to make the illustrations for a serial story. After the work was completed, Carol went back to Wyoming for a vacation. 'Tony took her on many excursions, and their regard for each other deepened. Finally, Brent Gibson arrived at the Wyoming ranch to see Carol. Tony, Dolly, Fred, Carol, and the children explored a cave, and Steven, Carol's nephew, disappeared. HE little girls, watching the growing image of fear on the faces of Carol Wilson and Dolly Graham, drew closer to the women. 'Trudy, not knowing why she did it, began to cry; Becky's lips trembled; Kathy was pale. Carol bent to Trudy. She forced herself to smile and to speak gaily. "Now what's this blubbering for, darling? Daddy and Uncle Brent and Uncle Tony will be right back. They have just gone to get Stevie." "Bears!" sobbed 'Trudy. "Big black bears!" "Nonsense!" Caro] said heartily. "We were all in the cave and there were no bears. Look, girls, how far do you think it is down to that pointed gray rock? As far as the river from your house?" Their attention diverted for a moment, they turned to look where Carol was pointing. As they did so, a faint, tremulous shout floated Page 524 down to them. As one person, they swung about, looking upward. And there, high above them, standing on a narrow ledge of rock, was Stevie. "Aunt Carol!" 'The boy's voice held panic. "I can't get down." From where she stood, it looked to Carol as if Steve could never get off that ledge. Above him rose a wall of jagged, bare stone; below him was a sheer drop of fifty feet. How had he got there? "Don't move, Stevie!" she called back, keeping her voice calm. "Just stand still. We'll get you down." Fred, Brent, and 'Tony heard the shouting and came running out. "Steve!" Fred's voice shook with anxiety. Dolly Graham came to him. "Steady, Fred. Don't scare him." Fred nodded shortly, and when he spoke again his voice was reassuring. "Stand still, Stevie, boy. We'll get you down!" "He must have climbed up through that cleft at the back of the cave," Brent said. "I didn't think it possible, though. Well, I'll go up after him." "You can't get up there!" Fred protested. "We'd better go down to the car and get a rope." "No. I can make it. At least, I can make a try." He said no more but turned and went into the cave. Carol heard his footsteps, determined and steady, striking against the rocky floor. She tore her eyes away from the little boy, looking so small and vulnerable against the cliff, and ran after Brent. She saw him go straight to the rear of the cave, where the shaft of sun- ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN light betrayed the broken roof. Before she reached him, Brent had already started to climb. Carol came to the Place and looked up. It was a Narrow fissure in the bare rock, running almost them. Yet that was just what he Was doing. Digging his toes into the chinks, hanging onto the clumps of brush, he was making his Way slowly up toward the patch of sky above them, to join the others. Silent, their faces uplifted, watching Stevie, Fred cupped his hands around his mouth and shouted cheerfully, "Uncle Brent is on his way up, Stevie. Stand stil] and wait. He'l] be there in a minute." "Where's Tony?" becoming aware that gTOup was missing, "He's gone down to the car to get a rope and to summon help. If Brent doesn't make it—and I don't sce how he can—we'l] need help," Dolly answered. "If Brent doesn't make it...." Carol's voice shook. Then, steadying it, "I guess there's nothing we can do...." "No. Just wait." Dolly came and Carol. "You must be thinking that Tony should have gone up there," she said gently. "He's younger than Brent, and more agile. But Tony Carol asked, one of the 525 can't stand high places — never could without getting dizzy. So it was best to let Brent try." Carol nodded dumbly. She was - glad it was Brent to whom Stevie's safety was entrusted. Glad, even though she felt numb with anxiety for the man's safety. One slip of his foot might send him plummeting down that narrow well, to land on the rock floor of the cave, hurt and broken. Her eyes ached from staring up at Stevie; ached from trying to see Brent's figure beside the boy, when Brent was not there. It was taking a long time. Why so long? Steve had been away from them, out of their sight, for only a moment. How had he got up there so quickly, when it was taking Brent such an interminable time? An exclamation from Kathy was the first indication that the man had made it. Almost at once, his dark head appeared at Stevie's feet, then his shoulders. Slowly, carefully, he heaved his whole body up out of nothingness, to stand beside the little boy. He looked down at the anxious group below him, held up his hand with thumb and forefinger joined in the circle that had come to mean "success!" The sigh of relief sounded like a groan. They could not hear what Brent Was saying to Stevie, but they saw the boy nod, and then Brent began to lower himself down through the fissure. He was partly hidden from their view, when Stevie stepped carefully along the narrow ledge, stooped, and began to disappear with Brent. Carol ran into the cave and to the rear. Small rocks and dirt were falling on the floor, so she could not (Continued on Page 536) ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1957 SELECTED DATA } ae RELIEF SOCIETY marks another year of progress—steady growth in — membership, increased activity, and expanding influence. 1957 has brought to the organization its greatest single increase in membership for the past sixteen years. The total membership of 183,436 represents an increase of 10,714 over 1956 with 149,502 Relief Society members in the stakes of the Church and 33,934 in the missions. The membership is distributed throughout each of the forty-eight states in the United States, Hawaii, Alaska, and forty-two foreign countries. There are 4,133 local Relief Societies in the wards and branches throughout the Church, which have been working under the supervision of 248 stake and forty-five mission Relief Society organizations. In these various organizations 118,117 Relief Society sisters have served in positions of leadership and 35,923 wives and mothers have participated in 2,298 Singing Mothers choruses. An interesting feature in scores of Relief Societies has been the increased number of young wives and mothers in the Church who are partaking of the rich opportunities provided through the greatly diversified program. Both older and younger mothers alike are finding that their lives are enriched as they mingle together, the younger sisters partaking of the wisdom, mellowness of age, and proven testimonies of the older sisters, and those in their golden years partaking of the enthusiasm, courage, and hopeful, progressive spirit of the younger mothers. The diversified program and courses of study continue to appeal to the varied interests of Relief Society women throughout the Church. This is evident through the increased attendance at the weekly meetings. Service as well as personal development have claimed the attention of Relief Society sisters, for, during 1957, there were 3,125,813 monthly visits made to Counselor Marianne CS arp, President Belle Genera] Presidency Of Reliof Society Latter-day Saint families by ee Visiting teachers This was aN increase of 184 39 Visits Over 1956. Devoted Relief Society Sisters have also made 275,469 ViSits to the sick and homebound have Spent the €quivalent of 29.06 eight-hour days COring for the SiCk, and have OSsisted gt 8159 funerals EVEN in 816 INStancec Qving been Called UPON to help dress the dead for burial Under + or direction of th furnishings, Children, € local Out the Church are |iyj testi y of the Society in 1942 that and Spiritual] needs of its Members" ("A S. Spafford, Counselor }y len W Anderson Verb BERS eee IN MISSIONS IN STAKES | TOTAL MEMBERSHIP SSS 1956 1957 1957 1957 1956 368,303 LDS. FAMILIES 61,553 L. D. S. FAMILIES Seas SOTO \-D-S. Ages aa CEbrAne 20,551 INCREASE _ 286,199 LD. S. FAMILIES 15,247 INCREASE D\. O'S> FAMILIES EERE 33,934 R. S. MEMBERS 1,656 INCREASE; etped eh. Iii nian 183,436 RS MEMBERS 14702 RS. MEMBERS = eee 10.714 INCREASE 9,058 INCREASE 32,278 R. S. MEMBERS 140.444 R. S. MEMBERS ORGANIZATIONS almncalleariars SNES 14.147 Q) 2 57 1956 Increase t / Stake and Mission Oraanizations (Total) 280 Tk ~ 23 2 i SINGING MOTHERS M 4 45 1957 ] crea Neer andibranch Geeta Ward and § Total) 4,133 938 195 \ > t &Total) 5 > 700 ( In M 37) 2 OC _ i if lS 1,/01! Da Grail 105 - In M 617 5 ARrAVIMnA+ } + y} RE QDR ' Q2n\D L l KX 11 f Pp WBN RelEeSociety Members | P l O57 and a 29] F ly i ' _ ' oc 1957 35 r ¢ | Stake Officer 2 874 7 149 Mission Officer 77 7 Wa Bre E Officers 15 14547 y ] 1956 Increase Other O 7 Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions | 146,] 3 130 1957 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS In Stakes In Missions Totals Location OrganiOrganiOrganizations Members zations Members zations Members UNITED STATES and TERRITORIES Alabama 15 211 15 211 Alaska 7 170 7 170 Arizona 130 7,397 12 219 142 7,616 Arkansas 9 128 9 128 California 332 21,671 42 1,181 374 22,852 Colorado 36 1,937 19 316 55 2,293 Connecticut 4 104 4 104 Delaware 2 46 2 46 District of Columbia 3 140 3 140 Florida 1] 428 39 810 50 1,238 Georgia 13 386 12 218 2 604 Hawaii 18 900 42 781 60 1,68] Idaho 341 21,463 7 WW 348 21,574 ilinois 7 347 29 570 36 917 Indiana 1 38 24 610 2 648 lowa 13 218 13 218 Kansas 6 102 16 234 22 336 Kentucky 22 32 22 372 Louisiana 10 280 8 177 18 457 Maine 12 188 12 188 Maryland 5 256 2 36 7 292 Massachusetts 12 264 2 264 Michigan 9 323 5 116 14 439 Minnesota 16 375 16 375 Mississippi 8 132 12 179 20 311 Missouri 5 213 16 316 21 529 Montana 36 1,136 26 5e9) 62 1,675 Nebraska 13 224 13 224 Nevada 46 2,605 46 2,605 New Hampshire 5 73 5 12 New Jersey b> 2 115 5 136 7 251 New Mexico 19 749 38 705 TH 1,454 New York 5 242 2] 444 26 686 North Carolina ] 30 40 827 4] 857 North Dakota 5 60 5 60 Ohio 1 36 28 573 29 609 Oklahoma 23 402 23 402 Oregon 56 3,045 2 545 81 3,590 Pennsylvania 1 48 29 53] 30 519 Rhode tsland 2 19 2 19 South Carolina 13 495 1 164 24 659 South Dakota 9 137 9 137 Tennessee 15 2714 15 274 Texas 46 1,340 38 686 84 2,026 Utah 1,005 74,101 1,005 74,101 Vermont 3} 3] 3 3] Virginia 1] 484 20 365 3] 849 Washington 74 3,408 S 162 83 3,570 West Virginia 1 220 ] 220 Wisconsin 3 130 10 171 13 301 Wyoming 55 2,876 15 310 70 3,186 Tatal—United States 2,309 146,853 793 15,548 3,107 162,40] OTHER COUNTRIES zat Argentina Australia Austria Belgium B rmuda Brazil Canada 58 Chil China Cook Islands Co ta Rica Denmark El Salvador England Fiji Islands Finl German Guatemal H al Ju Tonga Union of South Africa Uruguay Wales Organir Weenie zations Members »< ¢ 4 28 564 py) 9 7 1 56€ 136 6 |; Za | a 2| 2 2\ 3 19 | \¢ AIS ] 1 Ww ee -JI— OVD I= NBN ) \ ON. "IN I UUW = SS DW (6 Location Total Other Countries GRAND TOTAL In 62 2,37) SERV ICES, | g f VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits (Total) Home Not Home Per cent at Home Communications in Lieu of Visits 1957 Number 75,928 40,232 3,125,813 2,092,706 1,033,107 66.94% 60,056 1956 Number 69,984 37,168 2,941,430 1,963,269 978,161 66.75 % 51,019 Increase 5,944 3,064 184,383 129,437 54.946 9,037 8.49 average visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1957 8.46 average visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1956 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Visits to Sick and Homebound Days Care of the Sick Bodies Dressed for Burial 215,469 29,069 816 Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted 8,159 Wards and Branches Maintaining Lists of Nurses In Stakes In Missions QE 1,864 595 255,719 26,148 726 7371 2,288 1,743 545 19,750 2,921 90 788 17] 12] 50 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES Hours Contributed to Church Welfare Program by AIl Females Upon Assignment by Relief Society Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Sisters Serviced Who Sewed for item - selves and Families Hours Contributed to Church Welfare Program by Sisters Serviced by Relief Society Under the Direction of the Bishop SEWING SERVICE AT MEETINGS Articles Completed (Total) Kinds of Articles: Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1957 Number Sen tae 37,347 3,061 72,862 358,882 20,299 37,136 53,097 3,137 120,299 124.914 3,/86 3,318 468 *This information was not called for in 1956 reports 1956 Number 353,697 18,884 32.671 49,178 5,429 115,118 132,417 Increase 6,624 386 5,185 1415 4 A65 3,919 -2.292 5,181 -7,503 1957 Number TOTAL MEETINGS HELD 207,422 Relief Society General Conference Stake Relief Society Conventions 129 Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) 5,826 Stake and Mission District Board 3,165 Stake Leadership (Union) 2,661 Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) 201,467 Regular Meetings for Members 135,88] March, November Fast Sunday and Other Special Meetings 14.116 Visiting Teacher Meetings 23,983 Preparation Meetings 21,922 Annual Relief Society Conferences 3,426 Officers Meetings Prior to Conf. 2,139 "Cancelled 1956 Number 191,558 l r22 5,394 2,936 2,458 186,041 127,172 13,547 21,473 18,507 3,302 2,040 Increase 15,864 1957 1956 ENDANCE AT umPer UMPer InMEETING ber cent ber cent Crease Regular Meetings for Members 67,39] 36 7 62,477 36.1 4914 N Stakes 53,782 36.0 50,023 35.6 3,759 Missions 13,609 40.] 12454 38.6 1,155 Theology Meetin 73 825 J, 67,770 39.2 6,055 Wor €etin 66,332 6. 60 747 5.1 5,585 'terature 64 488 5.] 60,803 5.2 ~3,685 ocial Science 64,9]2 35.3 59.688 35.0 9,224 Visiting Teacher Meetings 39,190 5) 6 35,975 5) 4 3,215 1957 1956 Numbe Number Increase VISITS BY S AKE AND MISSION OFFICERS Visits to Wards and Branches (Total) 29,006 26,760 2,246 © Wards by Stak Officers 22,625 20,887 1,738 © Branche by Mission and IStrict Officers 638] 5,873 508 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand, January: i $1,240 734 04 Se 2,092 316 68 $3,333 100.72 Disbursements " Herd, Bacon gy 1,957,390.) ash Balance on Hand, December "sige ee aera $ 1,375,710 7I Assets — December 31, 1957 Cash Balance on Hand, December a $1,375,719 7] Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops i 422,912.23 Other Invested Funds ( Savings Bonds, et. SN csi 81,774.62 Real Estate and B —— 91,069.95 Total gs 536 E/, izabeth $ Children (Continued from page 525) try to see what was happening. But she knew from the debris and from the shuffling sounds in the crevice, that the two were descending. Carol waited, her heart pounding, for they were not yet safe. 'The descent was, perhaps, even more precarious than the ascent had been, especially with the little boy to maneuver. HE moments dragged by. Fred and Dolly and the little girls had joined Carol in her vigil, but she was not conscious of them. Every nerve was strained, listening, trying to interpret each little sound, each falling rock and bit of broken brush. But at last Brent's feet appeared, and Carol felt like weeping with joy. Those feet — those dear, dusty, shoes! She blinked her smarting eyes, and there they were, Brent and Stevie, safe. They were scratched and grimy, and Stevie's face had pale streaks where tears had washed down. But he wasn't crying now. He was looking somewhat abashed and timid. Fred and Dolly rushed to the little boy, knelt beside him. "Tt's okay, fellow!" his father said heartily, and Steve managed a tremulous grin. Carol went back to Brent as the others left. "Oh, Brent! I was so frightened for you. Are you all right? All I could do was pray." He nodded, grinning. "It wasn't too difficult for an old mountain goat." Carol's tenseness dissolved, leaving her limp and shivering. Sobs of relief came pounding into her throat and she raised her hands to cover her face. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 "Oh, Brent! Brent!" she whispered. His arms went around her. Face was against her hair. "There, my darling! Don't, please don't cry. It's all over. Stevie's safe." She clung to him, letting the tears fall. "If anything had happened to you, I couldn't have borne it, Brent! I couldn't have borne it!" "To me, darling? Did it matter so much?" She raised her tear-wet lashes. "It mattered everything. Oh, Brent, can't you forget your lost love and see me, Carol? I am here and now and I—I...." She stopped. "My lost love, darling? She was forgotten long ago — on that first day you walked into my office asking for a job I had a new love — a sweet, funny little love who was all business, all efficiency, but who could not hide the fact that underneath that veneer she was all woman — dear, loving woman!" He raised her face and kissed her lips, sweet and salty with her love and her tears. "T've been a silly fool, haven't I? But I honestly didn't know how much I loved you until...." "Until when, darling?" "Until I saw your dirty, dusty shoes come into sight in that hole!" He kissed her again. "I'm going to give Stevie a medal!" he declared. Brent held her close again. "Will you marry me, my darling?" he whispered. "Will you go to the temple with me?" She put her hands behind his head and drew his face down to her lips. "Of course, my sweet." When they walked out into the sunshine to join the others, they were met by a garland of smiles. His ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN "Carol has promised to marry me," Brent announced at once. "I'm the happiest man in all this wide, beautiful world! Stevie, my boy, I am going to give you a beautiful, big shining medal!" Fred took Brent's hand, and his congratulations and his gratitude were an incoherent jumble. Dolly came and put her arms around Carol. "I am glad for you, Carol. You look so radiant, I know it is right for you." She shook her head, smiling ruefully. "I had sort of thought we'd be _ sisters-inlaw...." Fred came to Dolly's side. "Well, Dolly, when we get married, Carol will be a sort of a sister-in-law, won't she — a sister-in-law by marriage?" He spoke toward the children, standing there watching with intent eyes. "This crisis has sort of precipitated things, I guess. Last night, children, your Aunt Dolly said she would marry me, and come and live always at our place, and help me take care of all of you all the time." Dolly knelt and gathered them into her arms. Fred said slowly, "I'm glad for you and Brent, Carol. But I sort af hate to break the news to Tony." Carol smiled gently. "Tony will get over it," she said soberly. "He'll find a girl nearer his own age, one with the same interests and outlook. Tony's a darling and won't be left to mourn." The words broke the spell that had been holding them. "Come along!" Fred said, "let's get back to camp and save anyone from coming up to help us. And we should have some sort of a celebration!" He took Dolly's arm possessively, and Brent walked close to Carol. 537 Becky came up and took Brent's hand. "You'll be my Uncle Brent for real now, won't you?" she asked. He bent and kissed the top of her pig-tailed head. "I always was your Uncle Brent for real!" Steve swaggered close. "I'm sorry I made you climb up that old crack, Uncle Brent. I was just looking for a secret room, or a bear, or something!" "It's all right, Steve, but don't ever do it again," Brent told the boy. "This time it brought me a wife — but I don't want that to happen again!" "Will you go away with Uncle Brent, Aunt Carol?" Kathy asked. Before Carol could answer, Brent said, "Oh, that's something I forgot to tell you all. I've been looking at places up here, and I think that, if Carol agrees, we'll buy a little bit of land not far from here and build us a house. We'll have to live in town and take care of our magazine, but we can come up here in the summer — some extra weekends, maybe even in the winter. So you'll have us on hand a good deal of the time, Kathy. I like it here!" "I'm glad!" Kathy said. Trudy went scampering toward her father. "Daddy! Daddy! Aunt Carol's going to live by us!" The others ran after her to explain the happy news. Carol, watching, smiled tenderly, "Elizabeth's children! How dear (2 they are! Brent's arm went around her. "Yes, darling. But somehow, I have a feeling that ours will be just as dear!" Radiant, completely at peace, Carol smiled up at the man she loved. \\_FROM_THE FIELD |~ eT Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FASHION SHOW Columbia, South Carolina, April 12, 1958 Annie H. Capps, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society, reports: "We are happy to announce the success of our first fashion show which was held on a regular union meeting day. All thirteen wards were represented, with approximately one hundred participants. The fashion show was in charge of Pauline Branham, stake work meeting leader, and Malcolm Fagan, Work Director Counselor. Some of the sisters participating in the fashion show had never sewed before. We are very proud of their putting forth the effort and time to make the fashion show a success. We feel that it has encouraged the sisters to sew more for their families, and has helped to show them how to be more economical. Costs of the garments were as low as one dollar for an adult dress and even less for some of the children's clothes. All participants are not shown in the picture." Page 538 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 539 Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards as they appeared at the organization meeting of Relief Society March 17, 1842, and the present ward Relief Society President, left to right: Jess L. Holmes, First Counselor; William G. Galbraith, Bishop; Minnie C. Fronk, President, Thirteenth Ward Relief Society; Clyde V. Goodwin, Second Counselor in the bishopric. Sister Hedenstrom reports: ""Phe annual March party proved to be a happy reunion for members past and present. Attending the luncheon and program were seven of the eight former presidents of this organization; seven members of the Ogden Stake Relief Society Board, four of whom were former presidents of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. Also present were the ward bishopric and many former members who accepted the special invitation for them to attend. This photograph shows some of the honored guests, together with the present officers, wearing pioneer costumes for their participation in the historical play ""The Key Is Turned" written especially for the occasion by class leader Drucilla H. McFarland. The women characterize the charter members of the first Relief Society at its organization on March 17, 1842." Ly Photograph submitted by Edith C. Bennet SHARON STAKE (UTAH), PROVO SEVENTEENTH WARD FORMER PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 18, 1958 we 2 t Left to right: Nina Carter, present President; Lillie Hills; Montez Harward; Ruby Stratton; Elsie Taylor; Mary P. Davis; Charlotte Davies; Martha Kelsey; Goldie Davis. This ward was formerly known as the Grand View Ward, organized in 1913. There have been twelve Relief Society presidents. Belva Wentz was not present when the picture was taken; Johanna Maxfield and Rose Stewart are deceased. Edith C. Bennett, President, Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "A history of the ward Relief Society was given, and a tribute was paid to each of the presidents. They were presented with corsages, and a luncheon was served to Relief Society members present and honored guests." 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 = Photograph submitted by Ilene S. Bagley SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS Standing at the right, chorister Phyllis Larsen; seated at the piano, organist Inez Tanner. Ilene S. Bagley, President, South Davis Stake Relief Society, stands fourth from the nght in the back row; Mona H. Haack, Second Counselor, stands tenth from the right in the third row. Sister Bagley reports that these Singing Mothers practice each week, beginning in October and continuing through May, except during the holidays. 'They presented music for stake conference in January, the visiting teachers convention in February, union meeting in April, Relief Society Convention in May, and stake conference in June. Each ward group sang at the November and March special Relief Society Fast Sunday evening programs. Photograph submitted by Matilda B. Gilbert FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, "OUR PRICELESS HERITAGE," March 17, 1958 Seated at the right (in dark dresses), left to right: General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Matilda B. Gilbert, President, Franklin Stake Relief Society. Nell Brenchley, First Counselor, Franklin Stake Relief Society, is seated behind them NOTES FROM THE FIELD 541] (in dark dress); Audrey Hansen, Second Counselor, is seated third from left in the second row. Lorna K. Peterson, pianist, is seated at the left in the front row; Edrus Larson, organist, is seated at the organ (in dark dress); Mildred Oliverson, chorster and director of the Singing Mothers, is seated at the left in the second row from the back. Ward Relief Society presidents are seated as follows: Marion Condie, at the nght of the organist; Udell Purser, second from the left in the second row from the back; Rhonda Poole and Ruth Stevenson, eighteenth and nineteenth from the left in the second row from the back. This chorus also furnished music for Stake Quarterly Conference April 27th, and for the Franklin and Oneida Stakes Convention May 14, 1958. SOR OO Sy Photograph submitted by Alline Hatch ORANGE COUNTY STAKE (CALIFORNIA), BUENA PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY, March 12, 1958 Seated in front: Margaret Childs (as a granddaughter); Norma Mackey (as a grandmother). Standing, left to right: Rose Calaway, who directed the skit "Through the Years'; Bishop T. Kirk Robison; Edna Mackey, Second Counselor; Lois Beutler, President; Alta Sorenson; Marcia Robinson, First Counselor; Gladys Brunner; Margaret Scott, Secretary; Ilene Bray; Kay Parks. Alline Hatch, President, Orange County Stake Relief Society, reports: "The skit "Through the Years,' by Nora Reid, depicting the history and purpose of Relief Society, as told by a grandmother to her granddaughter, was presented under the direction of Rose Calaway, visiting teacher message leader. The costumes worn by the sisters are representative of those worn by the first Relief Society members. One of the dolls shown is holding a real tiny Bible in her arm, and the tables were decorated with eighteen dolls dressed in costumes of that period. Relief Society colors were used in the flowers, and posters representing the lessons were on display. Songs used in the play were: "The Lord Is My Shepherd,' "The Spirit of God,' 'Sweet Is the Work,' and 'My Testimony.' They were sung by Marcia Robinson, Gladys Brunner, Jeanette Morley, Dorothy Larson, and Margaret Scott, director." Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 10—The Desire to Serve in the Gospel Plan Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 7 and 11) For Tuesday, November 4, 1958 Objective: (Joseph Smith, Sr., to Bngham Young). Introduction The objective for this lesson is a statement made to Brigham Young by the first Patriarch of the Church, Joseph Smith, Senior, the Prophet's father. Several of the revelations given before the organization of the kingdom of God upon the earth were addressed to persons who desired to learn from the Prophet how they could assist in the work committed to Joseph Smith. Among these were Joseph Smith, Senior (D & C 4), Martin Harris (who is referred to in (D & C 5), Oliver Cowdery (D & C 6, 8), Joseph Knight, Senior (D & C 12), and others yet to be considered in this series of lessons. Instructions to Hyrum Smith Prominent among those who proved stalwart in defense of the truth was Hyrum Smith, a faithful Page 542 "Tf you will live for the blessings you desire, you will obtain them" follower of his brother Joseph. Upon learning about the Prophet's translating The Book of Mormon plates, Hyrum journeyed to Harmony Township, Pennsylvania, to obtain more information about the work in which the Prophet was then engaged. It was upon this occasion that Joseph inquired of the Lord for Hyrum. Section 11 is the answer to this request. The first nine verses of this section are the same as those addresed to Oliver Cowdery (D & C 6). It seems most appropriate that the importance of the Lord's work would be emphasized to these two men who were to help the Prophet in his calling. Both of them apparently had similiar desires. Notice verses 8 and 14 of Section 11: Verily, verily, I say unto you, even as you desire of me so it shall be done unto you; and, if you desire, you shall be the LESSON DEPARTMENT means of doing much good in this generation. Verily, verily, I say unto you, I will impart unto you of my Spirit, which shall enlighten your mind, which shall fill your soul with joy; And then shall ve know, or by this shall you know, all things whatsoever you desire of me, which are pertaining unto things of righteousness, in faith believing in me that you shall receive (D & C 11:8; 13-14). As you read these verses and reflect on the promises made therein, what would you give to receive similar blessings? These verses point out the means by which men may receive the Lord's help in realizing their good desires. In the context to verse 14, Hyrum is informed that he is to put his trust "... In that Spirit which leadeth to do good — yea, to do justly, to walk humbly, to judge righteously..." (D&C 11:12). If he will do this the righteous desires of his heart will be given to him, but this will also require that faith be expressed in the Lord, which is the basis of a fulfillment of the things which should fill his soul with joy (D & C 11:13). Revelations to Others At other times in this dispensation men sought through the Prophet to learn how their desires might be realized. 'The Lord on one of these occasions (August, 1831) reminds his people that "... Those who desire in their hearts, in meekness, to warn sinners to repentance, su them be ordained unto this pow- * (D & C 63:57). Id are reminded in another reve- "a pattern in all lation that as "a things" that "ye may not be de- 543 ceived" by Satan, men may be contrite and their language meek, yet to be acceptable to the Lord 'they must obey the ordinances of the gospel. (See D & C 52:14-16.) One of the distinguishing characteristics of the true follower of the Master is the sustaining of those in authority over him. The upholding of the leadership of the kingdom of God arises out of the truth that our leaders, both local and general, are the Lord's representatives. (See D & C 84:35-38.) To another group of elders the Lord made known the way by which they could obtain the kingdom. His words are, "And if ye desire the glories of the kingdom, appoint ye my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and uphold him before me by the prayer of faith" (D & C 43-12). This meant not only by an upraised hand and even by prayer, but by actual material support when necessary. Book of Mormon Contribution One of the informative and significant changes found in the Sermon on the Mount as given in The Book of Mormon, deals with the granting of the desire to partake of the blessings of the kingdom of God. Notice the contribution of the Nephite scripture: Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee; Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift (Mt. 5:23-24). Therefore, if ye shall come unto me, or shall desire to come unto me, and tememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee— 544 Otto Done RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 JOSEPH SMITH, SENIOR, HOME IN PALMYRA, NEW YORK Go thy way unto thy brother, and first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I will receive you (3 Nephi 12:23-24). Before one can claim the fulness of reward, one must seek reconciliation with those who have anything against him. It is well to notice that the injured or "presumed" injured party is to go to the one who is responsible for the injury or hurt. (See Mt. 18:15-17.) 'This admonition does not absolve the latter from also seeking to make the reconciliation which will bring forth the promised blessings. (See D & C 64: 8-11.) Calls to the Ministry As we consider the revelation given to Hyrum Smith (D & C 11), we learn that righteous desires will be granted but that they may not come immediately. Hyrum sought to preach the gospel, but the time had not yet arrived for him to do this. In fact, the Lord informed him that he must be patient in this desire, saying "... You need not suppose that you are called to preach until you are called" (D & C 11:15). This is an important principle in relation to the gospel. The author remembers one nonMormon minister who cited Sections 4:3 and 6:4 to justify his own "call" to the ministry as being taught in Latter-day Saint scriptures. However, these revelations were given before the restoration of divine authority and the organization of the Church. Hyrum Smith and all others at that time were informed of the necessity of receiving a call from the Lord when the time was appropriate, through his Prophet upon the earth. Many today in the Church have LESSON DEPARTMENT reason to ponder over these significant ideas found in the revelation to Hyrum Smith. One who truly desires to serve the Lord should make preparation by living close to the Lord in keeping his commandments with all his might, mind, and strength. (See D & C 11:20.) Part of this preparation is the learning of what the Lord requires of one by studying his scriptures. (See D&C 11:22.) 'There is strong confirmation in verse 25 to the truth that when the Lord does call people to serve him in some capacity in building up the kingdom on the earth, the revelation thus received should not be denied but readily accepted as the word of the Lord. How many of us find ourselves in a condition where, without justification, we do not respond to the call of the Lord's servants and thus bring upon ourselves the penalty of rejecting his revelations? Examples From the Past For those who have the desire to serve the Lord and faithfully keep his commandments and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion (See D & C 11:6), the Lord has promised rich rewards. (See D&C 11:7.) (See Lesson 9.) These rewards are given to those who desire them sufficiently to live the law which will bring forth the greatest blessings. 'The kind of desire which the Lord requires of his children is that of strength and ardor of feeling that motivate them to act in accordance with his law. There are many examples in the scriptures of those who were prompted by a desire great enough to call forth the blessings of heaven. It seems that the case of the first Ne- 545 phi, son of Lehi, illustrates this principle very well. He was rewarded of the Lord because of his "great desires" founded upon a faith which was genuine. (See I Nephi 2:16.) The Lord softened his heart that he might believe even greater things because of his diligence. His life might be considered one of a consuming desire to know the truth and then to follow the voice of the Spirit. Enos, grandson of Father Lehi, was rewarded with the desires of his heart because of his faith. (See Enos 9:12-17.) An Old 'Testament example of fulfilled desires on the part of Judah during the reign of King Asa may also be cited. (See 2 Chronicles 15:15.) Is the Office All-Important? Opportunities to serve in the Church usually come to all who have the desire. These calls to service may seem to be minor at times, but one should keep in mind that his or her contribution, regardless of the position one holds, moves the kingdom forward. Individual blessings are received as One remains actively engaged in the Lord's work. Important to an understanding of the kind of desire that one should have in connection with service in the Church, are these words of President Brigham Young: If I find a man, as I do once in a while, who thinks that he ought to be sustained in a higher position than he occupies, that proves to me that he does not understand his true position, and is not capable of magnifying it. Has he not already the privilege of exhibiting all the talents he has—of doing all the good he is capable of in this kingdom? Is he curtailed in the least, in anywise or place, in bringing forth his wisdom and powers, and exhibiting 546 them before the community, and leading out? No, not in the least. Are any of you infringed upon or abridged in the least? Is there a sister who has not the privilege of exhibiting all the talent and power she will, or is capable of, for the benefit of her sisters and her children? Are the sisters deprived of any liberty in displaying their taste and talent to improve the community? (Journal of Discourses 7:161-162). A person's exaltation in the celestial kingdom is not dependent on the position he may hold in the Church, but upon how well he incorporates the principles of righteousness into his life and, at the same time, accepts the responsibilities of membership in the kingdom of God. If the motivation behind one's desire for position is prompted by ambition to exalt oneself, there is lacking the necessary qualification to serve in righteousness. Martin Harris' desire to become one of the three witnesses to The Book of Mormon is a good case in point. (See D & C 5:23-25.) When the apostles James and John desired to exalt themselves by occupying positions on the right and left of Jesus in the Father's kingdom, the Lord gently reprimanded them and, at the same time, denied their desire. (See Mark 10:35-41; Mt. 20:20-24.) Desires of the Living to Aid Their Dead As one considers further thoughts relative to one's desire in the gospel plan, he learns that the basis of the doctrine of salvation for the dead is desire on the part of the dead to receive the saving ordinances of the gospel. Basically, the ordinances for the dead administered in the temples are for those who have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 died "... Without a knowledge of the gospel" (D & C 128:5). Their desires for salvation will be realized when they have accepted the gospel in the spirit world and when the ordinances are performed in their behalf by the living. In other words, the desires of men's hearts go to judgment as well as their works.' (See Alma 29:4-5; 41:3-6.) This is indicated in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith not found in The Doctrine and Covenants. On January 21, 1836, in the Kirtland Temple the "voice of the Lord" came as he beheld in vision the celestial kingdom: All who have died without a knowledge of this Gospel, who would have teceived it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God; also all that shall die henceforth without a knowledge of it, who would have received it with all their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom, for I, the Lord, will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts (D. H. C. II:380). We may also see wherein the desires of the living in behalf of their deceased relatives are realized in this doctrine as their hearts are turned toward their dead in the spirit world. Death of Righteous From War One of the comforting assurances received in this life by parents who have lost sons or daughters as the result of war is based upon this concept stated in the revelation given to the Prophet. Such faithful members of the Church will be rewarded according to their desires — the blessings of the exaltation will be made available to them. This fact was stated by the First Presidency LESSON DEPARTMENT during World War II, when many of our righteous young men and women were called to the other side. Among other things, the general conference message of the First Presidency said: In this terrible war now waging, thousands of our righteous young men in all parts of the world and in many countries are subject to a call into the military service of their own countries. Some of these, so serving, have already been called back to their heavenly home; others will almost surely be called to follow. But "behold," as Moroni said, the righteous of them who serve and are slain: "do enter into the rest of the Lord, their God," and of them the Lord has said "... Those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them" (D & C 42:46). Their salvation and exaltation in the world to come will be secure. That in their work of destruction they will be striking at their brethren will not be held against them (112th Annual General Conference, April 6, 1942, page 95). Section 7 We now have an opportunity to examine a revelation in which the desires of one of the Lord's apostles mentioned in the New 'Testament are clarified. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery could not agree as to whether or not the following account stated definitely that John the Beloved was promised that he would continue to live in mortality until the second coming of Jesus: Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following; which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. 547 Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? (John 21:20-23) By the use of the Urim and Thummim Joseph Smith saw a parchment written by John wherein his desire was granted to have power over death that he might continue to bring souls unto Jesus. The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 7:6 states definitely that John became a ministering angel, and that his ministry was not to end until the Savior comes in his glory. His mission is to "... Prophesy before nations, kindreds, tongues and people" (D & C 7:3). Nephi foresaw this mission of John. (See I Nephi 14:18-27. ) As one who has power over death and yet a mortal in other ways, John is known as a translated being. In reference to the work of such beings, the Prophet Joseph Smith once said: Translated bodies cannot enter into rest until they have undergone a change equivalent to death. 'Translated bodies. Are designed for future missions (D. H. C. IV:425). From 3 Nephi, Chapter 28, we learn about the three Nephites, who were given their desire to function in a capacity similar to that of the apostle John. Functions and powers of translated beings are given in that chapter. In addition to John's assisting in the restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood in this dispensation, we have evidence that during the time of Joseph Smith, he was actively engaged in bringing souls unto 548 Jesus. During the June 1831 General Conference of the Church, it is recorded that: The Spirit of the Lord fell upon Joseph in an unusual manner, and he prophesied that John the Revelator was then among the Ten Tribes of Israel who had been led away by Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, to prepare them for their return from their long dispersion, to again possess the land of their fathers (D. H. C. 1:176). Again in this revelation (D & C 7) we have an example of fulfilled desires in righteousness. The Lord promised the apostle Peter that his good desire to come speedily unto RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 him at the allotted time for man to die was granted (D & C 7:4, 5, 8). Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss: The moment one desires eternal life, he is on the way to a successful life, both here and hereafter. Z. Name the ingredients necessary to make one's desires righteous. 3. What is meant by the statement that the desires of men go to judgment as well as their works? How does this emphasize the justice of God? 4. In view of your understanding of the purpose of life, what should be your greatest desire? Name some lesser desires one may have in this life and how they may be obtained. (siting Seacher lessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 10—'Remember the Worth of Souls Is Great in the Sight of God" (D & C 18:10). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, November 4, 1958 Objective: To show the importance of saving souls. HE message expressed in The Doctrine and Covenants (18:10) although brief, is profoundly significant. God's plan of salvation ultimately is concerned only with the saving of our souls. Our Father in heaven said: "... This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). Throughout all of his teachings, Jesus had the same great goal in mind and expressed it over and over again in exhorting his disciples to go into all the world and preach the gospel and to bring souls unto him. This emphasis on the worth of souls, is a source of great encouragement. The Lord's declaration that the worth of souls is great in his sight elevates mankind to a level of dignity and majesty which should be a source of inspiration and motivation to all of us. William Jordon expressed this thought in these words: "Man is never truly great... Until filled with knowledge of the majesty of his possibility. He must first breathe the fresh, pure air of recognition of his divine im- LESSON DEPARTMENT portance as an individual... Asa great human soul with marvelous possibilities" (Self - Control — Its Kingship and Majesty, page 8). Our Father in heaven organized the universe for the benefit of his children. All that this world is and all that it possesses is for us, to be used wisely for our joy and wellbeing. 'To fulfill its destiny and God's purpose, however, we his children must live so as to earn eternal life. The great challenge this message brings us is how we can assist our Father in heaven in bringing souls unto him. Our first responsibility is to make sure our own souls are saved. Fortunately, probably the best way to do this is to work conscientiously to help others save theirs. The joy of this labor is made clear in the following verse: And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my _ Father! (D & C 18:15). One way all of us can help is to teach the principles of the gospel and bear testimony of its truthfulness to our family, neighbors, and friends. Too many of us overlook this wonderful opportunity to help bring souls to our Father in heaven. Not long ago a mother presented to her teen-age daughter a lovely antique silver bowl which her great-grandmother, over a hundred years earlier, had brought to Utah in a covered wagon. The mother 549 told the daughter she hoped she would always cherish the bowl. She also suggested that when she was married and had a daughter of her own, she should in turn give the bowl to her daughter so that she, too, would remember the courage and fortitude of a great-great-grandmother who had forfeited most of her worldly possessions for the gospel. 'The mother said: Although this bowl is very beautiful, I should like to help you obtain something even more beautiful. I want you to possess something more precious than silver or gold. It is something for which you yourself must work diligently. However, when once you have earned it, no one can ever take it from you, so long as you wish to keep it. This precious possession is a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. Your great-grandmother was the first in our family to possess this silver bowl and a testimony. This testimony had a profound influence upon her and also upon the life of her daughter, your grandmother. Now I, your mother, should like to pass my testimony on to you. We can help also to bring souls unto our Father in heaven through living exemplary lives. Consciously or unknowingly, we constantly influence the lives of those around us for good or evil. In order to make our influence felt as a power for good, we must have a firm and settled faith in the gospel and then must practice putting these gospel truths into action in our lives. We must so live that others will see the fruits of the gospel and will desire to follow its teachings. Let us strive to bring souls to our Father in heaven. Let us always remember that "... The worth of souls is great in the sight of God." Work Tleeting—Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 2—Setting Goals in Homemaking Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, November 11, 1958 Objective: of satisfying family living. Goals—V alues—Standards OALS, values, and standards are the motivating forces of home management. Goals, classified as long or short term, are simply those desires we have and are willing to work to accomplish. Values represent the price, not always in terms of money, but the price in satisfaction we place on the choices we make constantly. Standards might be defined as working standards (how one works) and standards of accomplishment (how the finished product looks). Sound standards are based on the well-being of the family members. Creation of Goals The goals that are created and sought by young homemakers _naturally grow out of their desires, their past environment and experiences, and the philosophies, attitudes, and values that each brings to the new home. Every young man and woman normally seek happiness and a satisfying pattern of personal living, both for themselves and for the children they hope to have. To attain these desires, many goals are set with the expectation that reaching them will result in a satisfying life. Simply stated, goals are nothing more than the ends that Page 550 To show the relationship of clearly defined goals to the attainment any individual or family is willing to work to attain. Long-time goals are like beacon lights for us to follow and to guide us for many years; short-time goals are those we gain within a short period of time. Nickell and Dorsey list the following long-time goals that seem worthwhile for every family to seek: 1. Good health for each member of the family. 2. Continuous development of each member of the family throughout life— physically, mentally, socially, and spiritually.: 3. Personal and family relationships that are satisfying. 4. Sufficient resources to ensure the health and welfare of members of the family and to provide educational and recreational advantages for each member. 5- Well-planned housing which meets the needs of the family and is conveniently located. 6. Individual and family participation in local and national affairs and an informed interest in world problems. 7. Management of the family resources to insure attainment of the above goals. (NicKELL, PauLena and Dorsey, JEAN Muir: Management in Family Living, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., page 16. Reprinted by permission). And for Latter-day Saints we might add: Creating a home atmosphere where every activity ls influenced by service in the gospel of Jesus Christ. LESSON DEPARTMENT Every family has its own unique long-time goals that are important to them—planning for a mission for family members, a college education, an opportunity for Jane to try her wings in the field of art, and a temple marriage for each of the children. Short-time goals determine to a large extent what we make out of each twenty-four hours we live. Finish the new dress for Susan before Sunday; get the work done early so we can attend Relief Society meeting; bake a batch of cookies for the Cub Scouts; get the ironing done before lunch, and all the other duties that fill our lives. Goal Setting Is a Continuous Process Throughout life each family is constantly weighing values and changing its attitudes about attainments and acquisitions. In every home there are personal goals of each member of the family as well as those shared in common by the group. A goal calls up mental pictures of something which the individual or the family wants and will work to bring about. Importance of Clearly Defined Goals It is important to define goals clearly. Well-defined goals are like a clearly marked road map — they help us to keep on the main road and avoid time-consuming detours. Clearly defined goals not only encourage the wise use of family resources, but they stimulate the cooperation of those who set them. Some young homemakers decide eatly in marriage to begin to pro- 351 vide a fund for children who will come to them, and are thus ready to meet these financial obligations when the time comes. As the years go by, the family's goals help direct and control the desires of the group and thus shape the family's pattern of living. To attain both individual and family goals requires not only knowledge, judgment, and an understanding of the ways and means of using the family resources, but also courage and persistence on the part of all members of the family, especially the homemaker. She usually carries in her heart the secret personal goals of all her loved ones, besides being the motivating force in keeping long-time goals active in the minds of her family. Values and Management Values give meaning to life and the creating of conditions under which human values in family living may be realized and shared in family living is one of the roles of management. The major values, as given by Parker, which govern human conduct are:... Love, religion, knowledge and wisdom, health, comfort, ambition, technological interest or efficiency in work, play, and an appreciation of beauty in its many forms (Parker, DeWitt H., Human Values, Harper and Brothers, New York, 1931, page 46. Reprinted by permission). Thoughts for Discussion 1. How can family life be carried on more successfully when goals are set? 2. What are some of the values governing human conduct? Who helps trealize those values in a home? 3. In what way do standards of home management affect sound family living? See xe — America's Literature — Meet the New World Lesson 2—Calvinist, Puritan, Pilgrim Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D, Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 4-10; 36-44) For Tuesday, November 18, 1958 Objective: To relate New England Puritanism to its origins and to its contrasting contemporary beliefs. HILE our early American writings were almost never "literary" or "aesthetic," from the beginnings they have been noted for their vigor and buoyancy, for the fierceness and depth of their conflict and for the height and vastness of their hopes. Yet considering that their early parentage was the expansive, liberating age of Elizabeth — one of the two greatest periods of English language and literature— considering the changing, seething cauldron of social, economic, and spiritual relationships which sired them, how could it have been otherwise? If, during the vibrant yet precarious seventeenth century, Englishmen were shaken to their foundations by heresy, treason, cruel seizures, imprisonments, executions, and civil war, they were also exalted by purifiers of the purified religiouspolitical conscience in their attempts to create a man-made millennium. Much of the century's foment had been brewing for decades, even for centuries. 'Truly seen, then, this dynamic age should, first of all, be seen as a culmination of conflicts which had been smoldering long before. Page 552 The Renaissance John Addington Symonds has given us a memorable definition of the Renaissance: the rediscovery of the world and of man. From the thirteenth century on, man had been slowly liberated from superstition, ignorance, and provincialism by many inventions which helped him rediscover his world: the compass, modern mapping technique, gunpowder, the printing-press. Copernicus and Galileo in astronomy, Bacon in science, Newton in physics and TaeaernatiGs, and others enlightened man's view of himself and of his world as never before. In literature and the arts, the Dutch and Italian humanists employed the senses to give man's human qualities new emphasis. Politically, the "Divine Right of Kings' was challenged, Feudalism was being replaced by the rise of cities created by industry and modern capitalism. But dynamic as changes were, without a successful challenging of medieval Catholicism's domination over the souls of men, the Renaissance would not have amounted to much. However, with the help of the Reformation, it created modern man, a new individual who ideally defined LESSON DEPARTMENT a new political and economic relationship between himself and his fellows, who delighted in being driven by his newly acquired scientific curiosity, and who achieved a new concept of what the rights of the individual should be in his private worship. The Reformation While as early as the fifth century groups were organized within the Catholic Church to purify it of false practices, the Englishman John Wycliffe (1320 - 1384) took the first dissenting actions which predicted the later Reformation. After first endangering himself by translating the Bible, he influenced many traveling preachers to join him in preaching against the Pope and the corruptions of the clergy, and in proclaiming the right of each soul to judge religious truths for himself. Wvcliffe and the followers of his Lollard Movement also believed that all who believed in Chnist had a right to the priesthood. After his martyrs death, the Lollard Movement continued to grow in England, as did a similar movement in Bohemia under John Huss _ (1360- 1415). By the time of Elizabeth, these reform movements within the Christian church were large enough to be reckoned with. The main Reformation began with Martin Luther (1483-1546), the son of aGerman miner. During his early lifetime he had witnessed three peasant revolts in Germany, all repressed with great cruelty, while the sale of indulgences within the Catholic church seemed to him most corrupt. In 1517 he defied Rome by nailing his famous ninetyfive theses on the door of Wittenberg Church. While his reformed 553 church was a "high" church, which maintained many of the ritualistic resemblances to Catholicism, he preached that every Christian who had truly repented of his sins could be forgiven without a bought pardon or the need of any intercessor between himself and God. Luther preached that "neither Pope nor Bishop nor any other man has a right to impose a single syllable of Law upon a Christian man without his consent." As Calvin did later, he believed that good works were not to be confined to giving alms, fasting and prayer, but that a good day's work done by an honest tradesman was an important means for coming nearer to God. He granted to the Bible an almost completely new authority, coinciding roughly with the invention of printing by his fellow German, Gutenberg. John Calvin (1509-1564) College-trained in the humanistic traditions, young Swiss Calvin's genius lay in organizing Protestant churches under the leadership of lay Elders, or Presbyters. Aside from his new emphasis on the authority of the Bible, his theology was essentially medieval. For example, his concept of predestination was central to the teachings of St. Augustine (354-430), and was part of the belief of the Anglican Church long before the Puritans adopted it. Calvinism is entirely a Godcentered religion; unaided man cannot understand either his own depraved nature or that of God. His best guide, however, toward finding God's way is the Bible, as interpreted by learned theologians. Hence from its beginning, Calvinism stressed the need for leaders and members to be educated, since 5a4 reason and the intellect were tools indispensable for learning God's superiority and will. Calvin's beliefs are to be found in his famous Five Points. (See text, page 6.) In the Calvinist world God is allpowerful, everywhere present, and the direct cause of everything that happens. Said the Calvinists, let us then search the Bible and our own souls to learn his will, and stand in awe of his justice and mercy. More than any other, these Calvinistic concepts of God and man guided the destinies of the Puritan fathers in their New Jerusalem established in the New England wilderness. The English Reformation In 1534, seventeen years after Luther nailed up his theses, Henry VIII threw off all allegiance to Roman Catholicism, seized the immense wealth of all English monasteries and church-owned lands, and established himself as the head of the English Catholic Church, more familiarly known as the Anglican Church, the Church of England, or the Episcopal Church, since it was tuled by the episcopacy or system of bishops. Since Henry VIII then became head of both political and ecclesiastical government, from 1534 to the Bloodless Revolution of 1688, anyone who opposed the King either on political or religious grounds was guilty of treason and in danger of losing his head. In Scotland, where the feudal pattern was strong and where the church owned more than half of all property, John Knox (1505- 1572) was successfully establishing Calvinistic Presbyterianism as the dominant faith, an influence which also spread to England. But when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 Henry's daughter, "Bloody Mary," became Queen in 1553, she married a Catholic, Philip I] of Spain, and succeeded in forcing Parliament to restore Roman Catholicism as the "official" religion. Many Protestant leaders she burned; others escaped to the Continent. But legions of loyal Englishmen who stayed at | home felt their religious consciences to have been violated, and, during the reign of Elizabeth, Mary's successor, this movement to purify the "official" English religion of Catholic impurities, grew to such proportions that the hated, scorned word "Puritan" first appeared. English Puritanism According to Ralph Barton Perry, distinguished scholar of Puritanism, the historical movement known as Puritanism can be divided thus: 1. Reformers in the Anglican church, 1559-1662. 2. Settlers of New England, 1620-1630. 3. Makers and victors of the Puritan Revolution in England, 1642-1660. 4. New England theocracy, 1650-1690. 5. Jonathan Edwards and the Great Awakening, 1730-1750 For the moment we are concerned with the first and third divisions. Under Elizabeth, all church and municipal officials, and all candidates for a university degree, were forced to take an oath to support her as supreme head of state and church. But an alarming number of "Puritans" or non-conformists regarded the Church of England as the dismal result of a half-finished reformation. They would purify it of all man-made evils and usurpations which it had accumulated since the days of pure, primitive Christianity. As sole measure of LESSON DEPARTMENT 595 A Perry Picture Copyright 1900 LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS From a Painting by Rothermel purity they accepted the Bible: if contemporary religious practices were to be found in the Bible, well and good; if not, they must be cleansed out, that the purified original Church of Christ might be worshiped. Distrusting man's appetite in whatever form it manifested itself, whether it be appetite for the flesh, wealth, power, social sophistication, religious pageantry and display, they formed their own congregations within the Anglican Church, thus purifying it; the main body of English Puritans did not separate themselves either from state or church. Puritans remaining in Old England dreamed that the Revolution would bring about the new Zion, that throughout New England their purified form of worship alone would be practiced. But scarcely had Charles I and the Archbishop of Canterbury been beheaded in 1649, when it became increasingly apparent that the middle-class Roundhead Puritans were united only in their opposition to a common foe; within their own ranks their idealisms contradicted each other, their enthusiasms were tragically different, and with the dismal failure of Cromwell's Commonwealth in 1659 failed the dream of establishing a Zion in mother England. Not so, however, with their New England brethren, who attempted to establish in the New World a New Zion, not to escape the England they loved, but to fulfill England's true religious destiny. When James I succeeded Queen Elizabeth in 1603, his stern, cruel Archbishop Laud helped James repent of Elizabeth's comparative laxness, and thousands of dissenters, or non-conformists, or Puritans were "harried out of the land," including more than two thousand ministers, many of whom chose to give themselves to the New England dream of establishing a Bible Commonwealth. 556 Probably never before or since has there been such a concentration of religious leaders and college-trained men as pledged their destinies to each other and to their God in desolate Massachusetts Bay. Considering themselves God's chosen people and modern-day Israel, they accepted as their sole authority the Bible. 'They became the people of The Book. Traditional Englishmen that they were, they forswore celebration of their best-loved holiday — Christmas — because within the Bible they found no precedent for it. In thus purifying the English motherchurch, they personified the logical, inevitable culmination of the Reformation movement. The educated, wealthy, middleclass Puritans landed (less than ten years after the arrival of the Mayflower), at Boston in 1630. 'They had engaged in prolonged planning, had adequate financial backing, with their own charter in their pockets. (See text, page 4.) This gave them the right to govern themselves. Their fleet of eleven well-stocked ships disgorged everything they needed: tools, ample breeding and producing livestock, staple foods, including more than 20,000 gallons of beer and wine. The Pilgrims By contrast, the tiny group of 101 persons, who landed at Plymouth in 1620, were described by the Archbishop as "cobblers, tailors, feltmakers, and such-like trash." First organized in 1607 by William Brewster, local postmaster at Scrooby, they were plain country-folk who were harried not only out of their native land but out of their heritage as well. By accident of wind and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 weather they touched at Cape Cod rather than Virginia, and, after exploring in vain for a more promising site, the ship's captain "dumped" them at Plymouth, since he could no longer endanger his ship and his crew while such poor baggage haggled about not being landed in Virginia, as he had contracted with them to do. The first winter more than half the Pilgrims died. In the spring they sowed grain upon their leveled graves to conceal their losses from the Indians. Supply ships failed to arrive; they were so poor that for the first three years of their stay they practiced a form of communal living in which everything was owned by all, and for their first nine years they could not afford a minister, but, led by William Brewster, they taught each other. (Each November our thoughts return in grateful memory to the first Thanksgiving observance in Plymouth Colony, held in gratitude for the ending of a difficult year and for a bounteous harvest. ) In coming to New England, the Pilgrims forsook both their citizenship and their established English Church for they were Separatists. (See text, pp. 7-8.) They fulfilled the spirit of the Reformation in their belief that each congregation should be entirely self-governed just as each individual should be allowed to work out, in freedom, his own religious destiny. And though Puritans and Pilgrims had much in common, to the Puritans the Pilgrims were anathema, since they saw exemplified in them the horrible extremes to which the ignorant commoners can be carried by undisciplined religious enthusiasm. Furthermore, such Pilgrim separa- LESSON DEPARTMENT tion was most dangerous, for once schisms began breaking off from the mother-church, where would they end? Thus knowing the religious convictions of the Pilgrims and their distrust of all worldly forms of power, we are not surprised that their Mayflower Compact, signed in harmony by all men of the company before they went ashore at Plymouth, was one of our first great democratic documents. In this compact they did "solemnly and mutually in ye presence of God, and one another, couenant, & combine our selues togeather into a civill body politick... Unto which we promise all due submission and obedience." Thus, even before the Pilgrims disembarked, the isolation and opportunity which they had sought began to prove beneficial. The American mind was already being "created by the silent pressure of environment." And the leading spokesman for this momentous venture was its governor for more than thirty years, William Bradford. William Bradford, Historian Largely because of our great debt to the Puritan tradition, Americans have always possessed a strong sense of history, to be seen constantly in our monuments, historical spectacles, and, most of all, in our literature. Keeping a daily journal, until our own century a practice. Indispensable to every religious, seriousminded man of parts, was but an extension of the voluminous Puritan journals kept faithfully that one might record his inward thoughts and constantly review them, that he might more neatly come to know himself and, particularly, the will of God concerning him. It was in this 557 spirit that Governor Bradford kept his History of Plymouth Plantation, one of the noblest documents of Puritan literature. Entirely aware that he was fulfilling his intent of recording the history of his colony as he himself had witnessed the history being made, he records the daily happenings objectively and without bias, sparing neither himself nor his fellows. While his account is accurate and modest, his supreme accomplishment is to record unavoidably his own personality as written in his plain style, yet one filled with the simplified dignity which is ever the hallmark of great prose. Many of his images are homely, which but add to their power to convey his thought to the page. And that he knows The Book as well as his own heart is revealed not so much by his references to the Bible (though they abound) as by the rhythm, the diction, the pure idiom of his words. That he deserves the title of the father of American history is almost too obvious to merit comment, and disputed by none. More, he deserves the right to speak for himself, that all may judge. When the Pilgrims realized that their twelve-year stay in Holland must soon end, because many of their children were straying, Bradford had confidence in the promise of New England, despite its terrors:... For it is not with us as with other men, whom small things can discourage or small discontentments cause to wish themselves at home again.... We were well weaned from the delicate milk of our mouther-countrie, and inured to the difficulties of a strange and hard land, which yet in a great part we have by patience overcome. Both his own dedication and the 558 group's high sense of purpose and destiny are revealed by his words describing their departure from Leyden: So they left that goodly and pleasant city which had been their resting place near twelve years; but they knew they were pilgrims, and looked not much on those things, but lifted up their eyes to the heavens, their dearest country, and quieted their spirits. Such lines were never penned by a troubled, ignoble spirit. Bradford was very near The Book and the God he loved, as these lines testify. As we might suspect, Bradford was above pettiness and _ trivia. When some of the less dedicated members of the company complained to him that the mosquitoes of New England bothered them, Bradford wrote: They are too delicate, and unfit to begin new plantations and colonies, that cannot endure the biting of a mosquito. We. Would wish such to keep at home till at least they be mosquito-proof. While space will not permit long excerpts from his words as contained in our text, pp. 38-44, which should be read aloud at length, we should be reminded that the great purpose of his History was to show God's presence in all things, honor and power to his name. This final point RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 can best be illustrated by an excerpt from his History not found in our text: The earthquake was very terrible for the time, and as the men were set talking in the house, some women and others were without the dores, and the earth shook with that violence as they could stand without catching hould of the posts and pails that stood next them; but the violence lasted not long.... So powerfull is the mighty hand of the Lord, as to make both the earth and the sea to shake, and the mountains to tremble before him, when he pleases; and who can stay his hand? Particularly in recent years, it has been debated whether Puritanism left upon America a stamp predominantly good or ill. Were the Puritan cause to be represented solely by such a devout, dedicated soul, there could be no question. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How do Calvin's Five Points prove his to be a God-centered religion? 2. In relation to the established Church of England, how did the Puritans differ from the Pilgrims? How did they regard each other? 3. Why did Pilgrims and Puritans alike keep a journal? What was William Bradford's purpose in writing his History? 4. Why are the Renaissance and Reformation of special significance to Latterday Saints? SUGGESTED VISUAL AIDS FOR THE LITERATURE LESSONS The following visual aids may be obtained from Plimoth Plantation, P. O. Box 1620, Plymouth, Massachusetts: A facsimile of the Mayflower Compact, on heavy brown parchment (35c); a postcard facsimile of an early horn-book (the first primer from which the children learned their letters) (10c); a large colored post card picture of the Mayflower II, which sailed from Plymouth, England to Plymouth, Massachusetts, in April 1957, a gift of the people of Great Britain to the people of the United States (15c). LESSON DEPARTMENT 599 Music Suggested for the Mrionature Conse Florence J. Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society In the early days of America most of the singing was done in unison— harmonizing came later. Songs may be selected from the following list to use for the literature course: From the Latter-day Saints Hymn Book A Micuty Fortress Is OuR Gon........-2-----e-ecececeeeneeeeeeeeeeeesMartin Luther (1843-1546) WuiLE SHEPHERDS WarcHepD THEIR FLocxs By NIGHT.............2.-.--+----Tate (1592) Op HunpreptH—PRaAIsE Gop From Wuom Att BLEssINGs FLow................(1551) (One of the first five songs printed in the Bay Song Book) Now Tuank WE ALL Our Goo.. W.002-2-2-e2-c2eceeceneece eee eeee eee eee Cruger (1598-1662) PRAISE TO THE LorD, THE ALMIGHTY.........2..-22--22002-0+-0eeceeceeecceeeceeecececeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeoeee (1665) JOw TO Wi Went nonce ennnensncnnsecnnnoncenneceenersenecenesWatts (1674-1748) ALL CREATURES OF Our Gop AND KING.... WW.22---------St. Francis of Assisi (1182-1226) Are, Fig) NOL. -.. W.---cccccecssocecen------n0--necnneseasnooe (Christmas) 'Traditional English Melody Gop Moves ln A Mysrertous Way (From Scottish Psalter).............-....---.--------- (1635) Rejoice, THE LorD Is KING....... 22. ---2-.2--2--2-eeeeeee eee e eee eee Wesley (1707-1788) Gop Save THE Kine (Words changed to "America" ) _.......222-..2.-21:-2020-202eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeens Giorious THINGS OF THEE ARE SPOKEN............-.-- (Words, John Newton, 1725-1807) Griory To Gop on Hicu (Onginal words "Come Thou Almighty King," words, 1757) Sinc Praise TO Him (From Bohemian Brethren's Song Book) HE Is RIseEn (Easter).......-.2--.---cc-cccececeececeeccecccneeeescceccceeneeesecescecsseeeenceeneeseesereees Alexander Tui Praise My Maker WHILE I'VE BREATH.........2-.2.--0-----20--0-00--eeeeeoee Watts (1729) Anthems, Three-part (S. S. A.) These anthems may be ordered from the Augsburg Publishing House, 426 South Fifth Street, Minneapolis 15, Minnesota. Beautirut Savior (Old Crusaders' Hymn)......222...2..-.---1-2cce-ee-eeeeeeoeneesNo. M- 3—16c Now THanxk WE ALL Our Gop oou22. Loeeeeeeeeeee (1647) Cruger.... No. M-18—zooc @ Deeper give __.... Eeeee..... Z......... (Heinrich, Isaac, 1490).... No. M-19—10¢ O Sacrep Heap Now WoOwnDED.......00..222.2000000000--- (Hassler, 1601)-.... No. M-20—15c PRAISE TO THE LORD.. Q0..222.22.---c22c-ececeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeees (Two-part 1668).... No, M-21—16c I Love Tuy Kincpom (Old German) -02.222222221-2122c. CseeeceeceeeeeceeeeeeceeeeneeesNo. O- 5—16¢ Att My Heart Tuts Nicur REJjoIcEs.............. (Ebeling-Malmin).... No. M- 2—z20c My Gop, How WonperrFut (Two-part anthem) from Scotch Psalter, No. M-15—16c Anthems These anthems may be obtained from the Catalogue of the Concordia Publishing House, 3558 South Jefferson Avenue, St. Louis 18, Missouri. The following numbers are arranged mostly for mixed voices, but they can be used very well as solo or duet numbers: We Tuank THEE, Jesus, DEAREsT FRIEND....(1607) listed for S. A. B. No. 98-1148—16c Lams or Gop, Pure anp Hoty (Words, Nikolaus Decius, 1531) =— 2 Se eS (Two-part) Music, Erfurt, 1542, No. 9$-1383—18c Gop THE Fatuer, BE Our Stay.......222--002---0---+ (S. A. B.), No. 98-1149, year 1400—18c Once He CaME IN Biessinc (Mixed, No. 98-1344, Words, 1544, Music, 1531 )—18c Anp Wirt Soncs, I WILL CELEBRATE.....2...2..20c2c200eceeeeeeesNo. 98-1047 (Duet)—25c Josepn, Dearest Josepn Mine (Mixed) Christmas, Words, 15th Century No. 98-1131—22¢ 560 Ture Lorp, My Gop, Br PRAISED.....-...-.---- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 (Mixed, No. 98-1162, Words, 1671)—22¢ If your local dealer is unable to supply these numbers, they may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 15 East First South, Salt Lake City, Utah Glen Brothers, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 16—"The Law Also Maketh You Free" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, November 25, 1958 Objective: To show the relationship between law and the family. Need to Seek Good Laws HE life of each person is affected by law, whether it be the law of God or of man. It covers our relationship with God and among one another. Our understanding of the law influences our acts and omissions. The law defines the family, legally, and decrees rights, duties, and relationships of family members. It is, therefore, one of the strongest of all influences upon the family. Divine law, which is supreme, deals with the relationships among men and between man and God, and has both mortal and eternal consequences. Latter-day Saints believe that the observance of secular law is part of God's law. We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law (12th Article of Faith). This does not mean that we favor or are happy about all laws. While we obey, honor, and sustain the law, we believe laws must guarantee certain rights, and that we have a responsibility to shape the law and its administration through orderly processes. To fulfill the measure of his creation, man must live within a climate of laws:... Framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life (D & C 134:2). If these rights are guaranteed, the inner stature of man may grow, for he can exercise his free agency. Laws generally reflect the will of the majority. If we would have laws to our liking, our minds must be interested and our voices heard. It was the influential members of his kingdom who persuaded Darius, in the time of Daniel, to forbid prayer under penalty of being cast into a den of lions. The personal regard of King Darius for Daniel did not save him when he was found to pray in violation of the law. The power of God can save us from injustice, as in Daniel's case, but our reliance on God does not lessen the LESSON DEPARTMENT need to seek good laws and to support men of principle for public office. A law is defined as a rule of human conduct which is enforced by the state or other governing authority, through its public tribunals or officers. Its primary function, in relation to behavior, is one of limit setting. In general, man is free to act as he pleases within those limits. It is how he applies the finer laws of God, within the secular freedom, the exercise of his free agency, if if you please, that makes the real difference. In the words of President McKay: I am trying to emphasize that each one is the architect of his own fate, and he is unfortunate, indeed, who will try to build himself without the inspiration of God, without realizing that he grows from within, not from without (Gospel Ideals, David O. McKay, page 383). Source of Law The first laws came by revelation to Adam. Long before we had any political organizations, there were rules of human conduct originating from the laws given to Adam. In modern times, custom, as a source of law, has now given way to judicial precedence and legislation. That part of the law, derived from judicial precedence, sometimes referred to as the decisional law, is called the "common law." 'Today, and in the foreseeable future, legislation is the most influential source of law, since it enables the modern state to adapt itself quickly to changing conditions. Legislation, generally, reflects the social ideals of the people. Law Defines the Family There can be no family, in the legal sense, without a marriage. 561 Marriage to Latter-day Saints, of course, has a fuller meaning than that expressed in the statutes. Latter-day Saints know _ that "While man was yet immortal, before sin had entered the world, our Heavenly Father himself performed the first marriage. He united our first parents in the bonds of holy matrimony, and commanded them to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. This command he has never changed, abrogated or annulled; but it has continued in force throughout all the generations of mankind" (Smith, Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, page 274). In law, marriage is a personal relationship growing out of a civil contract. It was not until the Council of Trent, in the middle of the sixteenth century, that church ceremony, or other formality, was legally required to establish a valid marriage. 'lhe sovereign power now generally requires the parties to have a license to marry, followed by a formal ceremony before a designated solemnizing official. One purpose of the license is to prohibit undesirable marriages. Modern statutes specify the age at which the parties may marry, which is generally eighteen years for boys and sixteen years for girls, with parental consent, and twenty-one years of age for boys and eighteen years of age for girls, without parental consent. There is a growing tendency to prohibit marriages for medical reasons, and for this purpose many jurisdictions require a medical examination before the issuance of a license. 'The marriages of persons of different races are sometimes prohibited, as well as the marriage of 562 persons related in certain degrees. Intention to marry ls a necessary element. The validity of a marriage consummated in jest but in compliance with other legal requirements is subject to serious doubt. In some jurisdictions, doubt is also cast upon marriage induced by fraud or duress. The validity of a marriage can be determined by an action for annulment which is a different procedure than that of divorce. An annulment is a legal determination that a valid marriage never existed. Grounds upon which an annulment may be granted usually consist of under age, insanity, physical incapacity, fraud, duress, or a prior undissolved marriage. The grounds must exist at the time of the marriage ceremony. The decree declares the marriage as void from the beginning. Some courts will not declare a marriage void, however, where an injustice might result, for example, where children are involved. The family unit established by the legal process of marriage is enlarged by birth and adoption, each of which has legal consequences. The children of a valid marriage are legitimate children and are, by law, a part of the family. <Adoption is a legal process by which children, who for some reason cannot be cared for by their natural parents, are assured the security of a home in which they share the same mutual rights and obligations as those existing between children and_ their natural parents. Family Separation. Just as the law decrees the establishment of a family, it also determines the legal end of the family unit. Specifically, the law decrees when a divorce can be granted and under what circumstances. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 Divorce is a judicial recognition of an existing disorganized family. The grounds upon which divorce may be granted vary from state to state. However, the eight common grounds for divorce are: adultery, cruelty, desertion, impotence, conviction of a felony, habitual intemperance, willful neglect, and insanity. Generally, an action for divorce must be commenced at the place of residence and can be commenced by either party to the marriage. A divorce action considers not only the rights and obligations of the parties and their children, but the public interest. The state has a real interest in preserving desirable marital relationships and, for this reason, the legislative trend in recent years has been towards requiring a more careful consideration before divorce is granted, particularly where there are minor children. Some states require an investigation and report by a marriage counselor before a decree will be granted. The divorce decree ends the marriage and generally determines a division of the property, custody of children, responsibilities for support, and other matters. Church leaders constantly decry the evils of divorce. President Stephen L Richards said: I want to tell you that divorce is not normal, and it is not without stigma. It is cruel, unspeakably cruel to children, and to many innocent people. It is cruel to the participants themselves, filling their lives with bitterness and enmity more galling than wormwood, and the Lord in due course will rebuke this terrible wrong against the sacred institution of the home, which in his providence he has set up for the happiness and glory of mankind. Now, if there are alleviating circumstances, of course in his mercy he will consider them also (The Relief Society Magazine 1954, page 794). LESSON DEPARTMENT Personal Rights and Duties Certain personal rights and _liabilities of the parties are established by the marriage. For instance, the husband acquires the right to select the matrimonial domicile. His selection must be reasonable and it is not absolute, since his wife may acquire a separate domicile when she has been abandoned by her husband or when he grossly mistreats her. 'The wife customarily takes the name of the husband, but this, ordinarily, is not legally required. The husband, by virtue of the marriage, has a duty to support his wife and children. While a wife, under some circumstances, has a duty to support her husband, such as when he is in necessitous circumstances, she ordinarily does not have as strong a duty in this respect as her husband. She has a duty to support her children, but this, again, is somewhat secondary to the husband's duty of support. Most jurisdictions make failure to provide support, a crime punishable by imprisonment. In practice a good marriage should operate as a partnership. President Joseph F'. Smith said:. The blessings and promises that come from beginning life together, for time and eternity in a temple of the Lord, cannot be obtained in any other way, and worthy Latter-day Saint men and women who so begin life together find that their eternal partnership under the everlasting covenant becomes that foundation upon which are built peace, happiness, virtue, love, and all of the other eternal virtues of life here and hereafter (The Improvement Era, April 1936, page 199). Parental Rights. 'The law defines the rights of parents in relation to their children. Parental rights might be compared to a bundle of sticks, 563 each right representing a stick in the bundle. Each of the following, along with others, might be considered as individual sticks in the parental rights bundle: custody, control, visitation, the right to the child's earnings, to administer reasonable discipline, to make certain decisions (such as consenting to medical care, adoption, entry into the armed forces, and where the child shall live), and to represent him in legal actions. Some or all parental rights or obligations can be removed or limited in scope. Under certain circumstances parents may voluntarily relinquish their child to others or to an agency. 'The relinquishment may be temporary and partial, such as for foster care, or it may be complete and permanent as in the case of adoption. Parents may lose part or all of their rights in children either temporarily or permanently by court action. Loss of rights, in such cases, is ordinarily based upon neglect or dependency. Neglect consists of a child lacking proper care by reason of the faults or habits, acts or omissions of the parents. A "dependent" child in a legal sense is one who lacks proper care, but the element of parental fault need not be proved. For instance, the nghts of parents of an abandoned child may be terminated and the child placed where it will receive proper care without the necessity of proving that the abandonment was the fault of the parents. When parental rights are terminated by court action, the due process of law provisions of the Constitution must be followed. These require the court to have jurisdiction of the parties, to give prior notice of the hearing to the 564 parties, and afford them a fair opportunity to controvert evidence introduced on the issues. The court hearing the case must have been granted the authority by law to limit or terminate parental rights. Parents have a legal duty to support their children, to comply with educational requirements, health needs, to avoid neglect or abuse and, in some instances, to provide special care made necessary by their child's mental or physical condition, Property Rights Modernly, a wife's contractural powers are equal or superior to the husband's and her nght to hold property is generally recognized. In many jurisdictions the wife always has an interest in her husband's real property while he does not own a corresponding interest in her real property. Each partner to the martlage can separately own and dispose of personal property. 'lhe property of each is subject to the family obligations. The Family Inheritance. The disposition of property owned by a family member at the time of death is divided in accordance with law. If the deceased should leave a will complying with legal requirements, the property would be divided accordingly. 'The division of property at death is subject to the rights of other persons acquired during the lifetime of the deceased. 'The claims of creditors ordinarily cannot be defeated by death. In some areas a wife acquires an interest in her husband's property by virtue of her marriage and he is powerless to deptive her of this nght by death and his will. Whenever a person dies without leaving a will, he is said to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 die "intestate." In such instances, the law establishes a pattern by which the property is divided. Examples of "intestate succession" from one state are as follows: If a married person dies leaving a spouse and one child, the property is divided equally between the two. If such a person should die leaving a spouse and two or more children, the property is divided one-third to the surviving spouse, and two-thirds equally among the surviving children. If only children survive, the estate is divided equally among the children of the deceased. Whenever a person entitled to a share is dead, that person's share is divided in accordance with law among his heirs. This process is called inheritance by "right of representation." The Judiciary The courts are important to the family and its members, for they interpret the law and its application to specific situations. 'The courts limit governments and people from asserting rights or prerogatives which they do not have. In disputes between persons, the courts seek the facts and decide the controversies in accordance with law. In relation to the family, the courts consider and decide matters involving divorce, annulment, adoption, support, guardianship, division of property — as between family members and upon death, parental rights, delinquency, and crime. Here, again, in relation to our courts, we need to support sound principles, good men, and ever be vigilant to see that they are instruments of justice. Obedience to Law The law is an instrument which LESSON DEPARTMENT contributes much to the family. To obtain maximum benefits, family members should acquaint themselves with the law, their rights and limitations thereunder; strive to obey the law and, by so doing, encourage its observance by others; and conduct their business and family matters consistent with law, so as to protect their economic and social standing. Latter-day Saints and others who do this will help all to understand "... That governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man..." (D & C 134:1). Law is not effective unless obeyed. Obedience was one of the Savior's great messages. Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him (Hebrews 5:8-9). Latter-day Saints know the Lord's blessings are available upon compliance with his law, for he has said: I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D & C 82:10). There is no question where Latter-day Saints stand with respect to the law of the land. As quoted at the beginning of the lesson, the Twelfth Article of Faith states: We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. The leaders of the Church have always advocated obedience to law. It insures protection to the individual, family, community, state, and nation. 565 SACRED MUSIC jor RELIEF SOCIETY CHOR USES = BESIDE STILL WATERS—Hamblen...25 a BLESS THIS HOUSE—Brahe...........25 =... COME UNTO HiM—Handel.........25 oe COULD YE NOT WATCH-Stainer.20 a GOD PAINTED A PICTURE— DeRose _2... Ooo eects eee 325 Bs GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND-—Stickles.............22 — HALLELUJAH CHORUS "MESSIAH"'—Handel __...--. Ee eee -22 —_ HOLY CITY—Adams.............-....20 coos HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLLINGS—Liddle ooo... Eee -25 aA INVOCATION—Moore...................20 oe | SHALL NOT PASS AGAIN THIS WAY—Effinger _.............20 ae. JUST ONE DAY AT A TIME— Orton.20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah ) 1 | \ | | \ \! | 1 Please send the music indicated above. | (] On Approval (1) Charge! [] Money Enclosed |! \ | \ I \ \ | \ 1 \ ame ddress... Ity & State Qe Z 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, provoe Salt Lake City 11, Utah 566 Questions for Discussion.;: m6 ia 1. List ways in which families can' instill respect for law in their members. 2. J. Edgar Hoover once said: "If I had a son, he would never catch me in a lie, because I would never tell him one." Discuss this statement in light of this lesson. 3. How can we go about securing better laws—as an individual—as a citizen—as a Church—as families? 4. What are some of the important legal documents which every family should have in safekeeping? 5. What objections are there to using the law and law enforcement officers as a threat to children? 6. Illustrate how the law can make us free—as parents—as children. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 Supplementary References 1. Gospel Doctrine, Josepu F. Smiru, Ninth Edition, chapter 23, page 401; chapter 11, page 210. 2. Gospel Ideals, Daviyn O. McKay, chapter 23, page 312; chapter 28, page 80. 3. "The Constitution," J. ReuBen Cxiark, Jr., The Improvement Era, June 1958, page 395. 4. Unto the Hills, Ricuarp L. Evans, PP: Sere: 5. From the Crossroads, Ricuarp L. EVANS, pp. 33, 45, 135, 163. 6. "Obedience in All Things," HELEN W. Anverson, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1957, page 719. 7. "Father's True Place in the Home," Bruce R. McConxtz, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1958, page 348. Sylvia Drapers Hobby —_ Goa to Others See Hulse Draper, Smithfield, Utah, has found that the hobbies which give her so much pleasure bring happiness to others. The homes of her friends and relatives have been beautified by handwork gifts from Mrs. Draper who has specialized in Christmas and birthday gifts of beautiful and useful handwork. Mrs. Draper's "first love" is quiltmaking. She has made more than forty quilts for her family, and has assisted her ward Relief Society in making nearly two hundred quilts. She has helped her friends and neighbors in making more than five hundred quilts. She is always willing and eager to teach others her ways of expert piecing and quilting. She has been Relief Society work director since 1944, and is still carrying on. She has been a visiting teacher for thirty-seven years. Crocheting, rug making, and machine and hand sewing are other skills which Mrs. Draper has developed into fine arts. Her practical motto is "Make the home beautiful with handwork." Mrs. Draper is the mother of nine children, grandmother of thirty-seven, and great-grandmother to seven. due Soptember Iet FABULOUS COLORED PICTURES AND MAP 12 PICTURES — 1 MAP especially designed for literature class teachers ® SEND $5.00 (plus postage) TO: GRAPHIC ARTS DEPT. AUDIO-VISUAL CENTER BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH — Discovery Anna W. Fox Peggy is a daintv miss; A lovely thing to see, With big brown eyes and dimpled smile; She hasn't yet turned three. One day she picked a small seed pod And placed it in my hand; We opened it and found brown seeds Like tiny grains of sand. We placed them in the soft warm earth Quite sure that some fine day The seeds would grow up into plants With lovely blossoms gay. So often I have watched this plan Unfold from seed to pod Not realizing I have seen A miracle of God. ® BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles uu. Eee 35 150 to 300 miles... 4 300 to 600 miles... 600 to 1000 miles... 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 Miles..-. Cccccccsccesesce-s: 176 Over 1800 miles -87 Leave them af our conveniently located uptown office, Deseret Ne ws Press 33 bea St: ae am 1, vr HD) 568 Historical L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at Hill Cumorah, historical places of the Church, New York, Chicago, Washington, Canada, Niagara Falls, and Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City August 2, 1958. $210.00 for 23 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. English Temple Dedication Tour Leaves August 29th from New York City. Several tours going to Dedication of the Temple either by air or boat. These are very reasonable tours. Write or phone for further details to: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East SALT LAKE CITY 9, UTAH Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2337, CR 7-6334 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1958 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-nine Mrs. Harriet RANcK OLSON Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Anna J. Larsen Logan, Utah GEORGIENNE M. WALTERS Big Lake, Minnesota Ninety-three Mrs. Lovisa BYBEE Tooele, Utah Mrs. ANNIE CHRISTINE HouGESON North Hollywood, California Ninety-two Mrs. ArMANDA ANGLE San Diego, California Mrs. Marcaret K. SMITH Ogden, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Eunice STEWART VALENTINE Beaver, Utah Ninety Mrs. EMMA JANE BAWDEN THOMPSON Salt Lake City, Utah —< Mountain Meadow Ethel Jacobson Oh, still and sweet This high retreat Where tendrils of vine Intertwine; Where a flower eye Regards the sky From each slim blade Of grass, wind-swayed — And I shut my book For a longer look, A closer view Of the heavens, too. 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Say the @ GOOD WORD SAY THE GOOD WORD OSCAR A. KIRKHAM Few stories in the Church have so captivated the hearts and minds of Latterday Saints as '"'How to Build a Fire." This, and others, along with many impressive addresses by Oscar A. Kirkham are found in this outstanding handbook for leaders and teachers of youth. $3.50 q oon oF MORNE! COMMENTARY ON THE BOOK OF MORMON GEORGE REYNOLDS and JANNE M. SJODAHL Authoritative, comprehensive analysis of scriptural truths found in the Book of Alma, Chapters 1 thorugh 26, with explanatory information and _ historical data to help students and scholars of scriptures gain complete understanding. $5.00 Dafne o. DESERET BOOK COMPAN ELIZA R. SNOW—— AN IMMORTAL The heroism, strength and_ splendor, revealed by Eliza R. Snow in _ the historic trek from Nauvoo to Winter Quarters in 1846 are here expressed in her Life Sketch, Diary, poems, and beloved Mormon hymn, ''O My Father." A beautiful tribute to a stalwart pioneer woman! $4.50 ast South Temple - | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ) check ( ) money | | order ( ) | have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed | | — for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 | CUS Sonne cece ve 3 - = « sere erect roc Creer EI UNainNtnncirmiomimiae == + | | City: Zone Siato ae t Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. \ | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | INIERD | -cassescensccs sone FAME ann ene cen eECISCS== SURERNNRNESEEERE=S" See EEC I | FAMILY PACKAGE PLAN provides life insurance for you, your wife, your children... In one low-cost policy There's something for every member at the fun-filled amusement park... Offering wholesome do-it-together recreation. There's also something for every member of the family in Beneficial's new all-in-one Family Package Plan. For example: DAD who needs the most life insurance, hos $5,000 permanent insurance per unit (2 units $10,000; 3 units $15,000). Accidental death pays double; if disabled, premiums are automatically paid. Builds generous cash and retirement values. MOM CHILDREN re each insured for $1,000 per unit until age 22... And can then be converted to permanent insurance up to $5,000... Without evidence of insurability. New babies are automatically insured for $500 per unit from 15 days old to six months, and thereafter for $1,000 per unit — at no extra cost. Has $1250 insurance per unit, if she's Dad's age; more if younger, less if older. This insurance program grows with your family — but the one low premium stays the same! Ask your Beneficial man about this convenient new all-in-one pelicy that protects your entire family — or mail the handy coupon below. Beneficial Life Insurance Company Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah | 1 Send now for folder giving more complete details! About Beneficial's new Family Package Plan. I \ 1 BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance Virgil H. Smith, Pres. VOL. 45 NO. 9 rc o wa wn ° 3 "a —— ° " Oo @ oO co) 3 ao @ =a | - ae ee ne ay os Harvest-Colored Hills Elsie McKinnon Strachan As bright as harvest chaff stacked centuries high, In silent crest on crest these gold hills stand; Their lofty quietude against cool sky, Their peace inscribing shade on pasture land. As always, this tall stillness wakes, for me, Warm thoughts of prairie—bringing close the charm Of that far level of a wheat-ripe sea, Recalls the cutting time on Father's farm. Strange kinship blends all autumn hush which spills On those far plains, these harvest-colored hills; I lift my eyes to amber heights of calm— And walk my distant prairies, hear their psalm. The Cover: MacArthur Park, Los Angeles, California Photograph by Ward Linton Frontispiece: Hills of Autumn Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom lear and Sar I want to take this opportunity of telling you how very much the Magazine means to me. My mother first subscribed for me several years ago, soon after my marriage, and I wouldn't be without it in my home. Relief Society has always meant a good deal to my family, and I always cherish the spiritual help and the wonderful message the Magazine has given to us. We need spiritual help to guide us, especially since we are so far away from the headquarters of the Church; being a part of the Southern Far East Mission, our small branch needs all the help we can get. —Pauline J. Hardy President Guam Branch Relief Society Guam, M. I. I would like to say how very much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I became acquainted with it when a missionary in the mission field where I was converted, first gave it to me through the courtesy of the Sugar City, Idaho, Relief Society. Since then it has been a source of great pleasure to me. —Mrs. Nora Hall Provo, Utah All of our members now subscribe to the Magazine, and we especially enjoy it, since we are a small group located on a rather remote military base in Alaska. 'The Magazine helps to keep us in touch with Church activities at home and makes our tour of duty here seem much. Shorter. Thank you for the careful attention you give in sending us such an outstanding Magazine. —Ann Stewart Eielson Air Force Base Alaska Congratulations on the editorial page— always such beautiful thoughts that bring so many suggestions to our minds on what we can do and how to do it. I also enjoy the stories and poems. —Clara Browning Lorenzo, Idaho Page 570 I particularly liked the article about Germany in the June Magazine (""The West German Mission," by Preston R. Nibley). I find the Magazine very helpful in keeping up with what is going on at home, and I appreciate the wonderful inspirational articles very much. —D. McKay Snow Helmsted, Germany Enola Chamberlin's poem "With You Away" in the July issue of the Magazine is an appealing bit of verse, beautifully expressed and composed. —Remelda N. Gibson Tooele, Utah I look forward each month to reading the Magazine. A peek at it as soon as it arrives usually has to do until I have time to look through it better. I enjoy every issue, and especially liked the story "Heart of the Home,' by Frances C. Yost in the April issue. She writes of such rich, rewarding, and down-to-earth experiences, one can't help but feel she has lived these stories. I hope to see more of her artistry in the Magazine. Such lessons and stories as we read in the Magazine help us all in strengthening our testimonies of the gospel, and in helping us to become better wives and mothers. It is truly a joy to participate in the Relief Society organization of the Church. —Dyrene T. Yeates Logan, Utah é Our Magazine proves to be a "thirstquencher" if one is seeking for knowledge. For such a small Magazine, it proves to be all meat and no potatoes, and it takes a full month to digest it thoroughly. I read something between its covers nearly every day. In this manner one can keep her mind on a higher plane and the mental activities seem to associate themselves with our Heavenly Father's business. The Relief Society Magazine is one of the best missionaries in our home. —Mrs. Lois Skidmore Austin, Texas THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Se tn - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Louise W. A Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Aleine M. Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Josie B. Ba Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stodderd Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 SEPTEMBER 1958 NO. 9 Ca SPECIAL FEATURES Tribute to President David O. McKay, A Great ERE ory osamneeessn eeJeanette McKay Morrell 573 Your Quest for Truth, Marion G. Romney 575 The West Spanish-American Mission -.............2. CccccecccseeceesecscceeeeccseseecscasececesensceeseeecesPreston R. Nibley 584 Everyday Life in Colonial New England—Part II. Alberta H. Christensen 586 FICTION IU C@) 18 eC0 (ot me eeFlorence B. Dunford 601 "Not to the Swilt''—Chapter 3 SO rer cnocenceoesaccersacscascureoceensevacesesceracesseoeeDeone R. Sutherland 607 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far. U.... Eecccssccseeeccessncsecceseesecsetersensneencsseceneeceessceesneoeness 570 Sixty Years Ago = ee... See. 594 Woman's Sphere ooeeecceeecececceseeceeccceescceesceesccenenscceesenseeeecsenesess cones we ~Ramona W. Cannon 595 Editorial: Grandparents in the Family Pattern........ Nn caascnnnsasteceVesta P. Crawford 596 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities..00..... Cc cette wewe---Hulda Parker 612 Birthday Congratulations.... Cee. Cceseecceseeescscececcsesesnseceeceescseeeseesssssetsesesccecseceeeseceeceeccesersceseeeesnenssoseceesseaiecaseanseasece 640 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the West Spanish-American Mission 200...22...... Ccc-ceccsecesececceceseereeseceeesesMcNone N. Perry 598 You Can Sew—vII. Hem oiieii. EccccececececeececceceeeeeceeeeescseeeaseescsscecssscccgnessessececserseenneccenenseceeneesJean R. Jennings 604 Eliza Brockbank Hales Specializes in Flower Growing 2o.... Ccccccccccessesescecccsesecscocsnsenentnncescesneccssensnececeseesecs606 LESSONS FOR DECEMBER Theology—The Worth of Souls.. Roy W. Doxey 620 Visiting Teacher Messages—"'. I Will Bless All Those Who Labor in My Vineyard With a Mighty Blessing 2 61) eecccccccessesseneeeeececeeeee esChristine H. Robinson 625 Work Meeting—Managerial Responsibilities of the Homemaker cccccccecssesecseeeesssnesVesta Barnett 627 Literature—Roger Williams and the Puritan Theocracy Briant S. Jacobs 629 Social Science—No Lesson Outlined. I 636 POETRY Harvest-Colored nays rontianiage ~eoce ocElsie McKinnon Strachan 569 Mystic Word... Ae. _ Eva Willes Wangsgaard 583 Mother-By-Love........0....... Rr. —_——— >. Maude Rubin 583 Between Anniversaries.... Eee eerEthel Jacobson 593 Te SW nnn nnn nanan ccc eccccecccccercceecceccccenceccnecncocecesecceccnecsecseceserencesseccecesesseesecceocsnssoesesChristie Lund Coles 597 MOQ MOZEATL,....0. CcecssaseccccessscecsnssssescscevsessesscascersearersessansesecseauauacecnsenscenssnerescsaseusesousorsusccecessaseccenseessessesBernice Ames 597 Chokecherry Jelly. EeRoxana Farnsworth Hase 600 T Still Remember i. E... Ce eeeeccecceeceeceeescnencececesnseeccesennsssseseecccseeeeseneeesesceseeses sms cdGrace Barker Wilson 611 Daughter's First Wedding Anniversary _.. Dorothy J. Roberts 628 Tranquility 2.2... Aa "Winona Frandsen Thomas 638 Only Hearts Car Hear.... Ccmecs-cssccececsccssseecesssecasssoseessceetatacscesseacecesesorees ee... Ales. 5Maude O. Cook 640 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 571 The Apple Packer 2...... E. Eececccsssseessceceesesssneecesceneescscecseccescnecseatsecseensncensenencese Linnie Fisher Robinson 593 Courtesy Z. C. M. I. Photo Reflex Studio PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Page 572 Sribute to President David O MlceRKay, A Great I lisstonary On His Eighty-Fifth Birthday, September 8, 1958 Jeanette McKay Morrell PRESIDENT David O. McKay is one of the most effective missionaries the Church has ever had. Huis knowledge of the gospel, his sincerity, his courage to stand for his beliefs, his sympathetic understanding of people and their problems, his keen sense of humor, his charming personality, his exemplary life, his noble appearance, and his humility appeal alike to the great ones of the earth and to the lowly ones. During his first mission to Great Britain in 1897, he had an experience that was to affect his whole life. At an especially spiritual missionary conference in Scotland, Elder James McMurrin of the European presidency said in part, "Brother David, Satan has desired you that he may sift you as wheat, but God is mindful of you, and if you will keep the faith, you will yet sit in the leading councils of the Church."" David O. McKay wrote in his diary: "I resolved then and there to keep the faith and to be of service to my fellow men." His devotion to his Church and to his country since that time is proof of how well he has kept that resolution. His contact with young people, as principal of Weber Academy, and as he directed the work of Sunday Schools in Weber County and, later, in the entire Church, was an inspiration to which thousands have attested throughout their lives. His world-wide tour of the missions of the Church, 1920-21, in which he and his companion, Elder Hugh J. Cannon, brought unspeakable joy to many who had never before met an apostle, was an outstanding missionary experience. In Samoa, a monument was erected in commemoration of this visit. In China, that land was dedicated for the preaching of the gospel, and in many of the countries visited there were miraculous happenings due to the rich outpouring of the heavenly spirit which accompanied their labors. During his presidency of the European Mission (1922-23) he succeeded, by direct contact with editors of the leading newspapers, in stopping the spurious articles that had been impeding missionary work, and in having them replaced by fair treatment of the work of the Church in England as well as in other countries of Europe. The direct effect of this accomplishment was a great increase in membership during the following two years. President and Sister McKay traveled more than 2,000 miles in the European Missions and conducted 525 meetings. The temples dedicated here and abroad have afforded wonderful Page 573 574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 opportunities for missionary work, especially among local and national government officials. As an illustration, at the dedication of the temple and college in New Zealand, in addition to the hundreds of interested people who were in attendance, there were present the Prime Minister, Mr. Nash; member of Parliament, Dame Hilda Ross; Superintendent of Education, Mr. L. L. F. Ensor, and other officials. 'They spoke at the college exercises, and before the end of their visit with President McKay and others of his party, became real friends, as the New Zealand papers and Associated Press reports and photographs attested. At the dedication of the chapel at Suva there were present the Governor and Lady Garvey, the Mayor and Mrs. A. D. Leys, the Colonial Secretarv, Mr. P. D. MacDonald, and others with the same resulting friendly relations established. Everywhere, there were prejudices allayed and expressions of good will toward the Church and our Country. These experiences can be multiplied by every visit of President McKay here and abroad, during the past sixty-one active, busy years of his devotion to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Another phase of his effective missionary work is accomplished in his office in Salt Lake City. When at home, he arrives at the Church office building never later than seven A. M. In order to perform his regular strenuous daily duties, so there will be time during the day for meetings, conferences with groups and individuals, and almost daily calls from out-ofState visitors. Of the latter, whether they are political leaders, heads of national unions, foreign representatives, officials of other churches, governors of states, newspaper groups from Russia or other countries, or whoever the guests may be, they are received with the same unhurried courtesy extended always by, this wonderful President. Invariably, they leave with a kindly feeling toward the Church and a greater respect for its leadership. As a representative of this Country to other lands, his influence has been felt and appreciated by telegrams, calls, and written communications as expressed in the following extracts: In a letter from Honorable John Foster Dulles, Secretary of State, "Tam sure you and Mrs. McKay did a notable service in your travels as unofficial ambassadors of good will." A letter from Honorable Arthur V. Watkins, Senator from Utah, contains this paragraph: "I have been following your tour in the press, and I am sure that you have done a great deal of good in the various countries which you have visited. I am sure that the relations of the United States have been greatly enhanced by your visit. I know of no better example of an outstanding American Christian citizen than you." May this eighty-fifth birthday be only a milestone in many more years of glorious missionary accomplishment. Your Quest for Truth Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve (Baccalaureate Address at Brigham Young University, May 30, 1957) commend and congratulate you members of the Class of 1957. Especially do I congratulate you on your being graduates of this Church University. Here you have been free to search for knowledge in the fields of your choice. By divine injunction you have been encouraged to "seck learning by study and also by faith" concerning:.. Things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms (D & C 88:79). Surely yours has been a purposeful education. Your completion of the work required for graduation is a monument of achievement in your quest for truth. Your industry and perseverance in pursuit of learning are in harmony with the best traditions of your people, who, from the beginning, have promoted and sustained education. For many years the Church was on the frontier where there were no schools other than its own. Beginning in 1831, when William W. Phelps was called by revelation to assist "... Oliver Cowdery to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing books for schools... That little children also may receive instruction..." (D & C 55:4), the Church embarked upon a program of elementary education. Even as books were being prepared, parents and guardians were urged not to wait, but to go forward with the teaching of their children. If children are to be brought up in the way they should go, to be good citizens here, and happy hereafter, they must be taught {said the Times and Seasons in January 1842]. It is idle to suppose that children will grow up good, while surrounded with wickedness, without cultivation. [t is folly to suppose that they can become learned without education. In order to do this as it should be, it is necessary that children should be taught in the rudiments of common learning out of the best books, As early as 1832, the saints were developing schools in far-off Missouri. According to the Kansas City Journal Post of March 4, 1923: The first school established within the present limits of Kansas City... Was founded by the Mormon Prophet, Joseph Smith, in 1832, in what now is Troost Park Lake, a site 12% miles west of Independence (BEeRRETT AND Burton, Readings in L. D, S. Church History, I, page 224). Nor were their efforts confined to elementary education. "Kirtland High School is taught in the attic story' of the temple, noted the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1837. The school numbers from one hundred and thirty-five to one hundred and _ forty students, divided into three departments— the classic, where the languages only are taught; the English department, where mathematics, common arithmetic, geogPage 5/5 576 raphy, English grammar, writing, and reading are taught; and the juvenile department... (D. H. C., II, page 474). In Illinois, the saints established the first municipal university in America. December 16, 1840, the legislature authorized the City Council of Nauvoo to:... Organize an institution of learning within the limits of the city, for the teaching of the Arts, Sciences and Learned Professions to be called the University of the City of Nauvoo. (Bennion, M. Lynn: Mormonism and Education, page 22). IVE years later they were on the move across Iowa in the great trek to the West. 'The University, by this time, had:. A small, but excellent faculty, and did some good class work in several departments. Text books were adopted for the elementary schools, and provisions were made for the certification of teachers (Ibid., page 36). Among the treasured belongings rescued (by the saints) in their hurried flight from Nauvoo were books and during the dreary march to the Basin, schools were maintained for the children. Most of the instruction was given around the evening campfire at the end of the day's journey and on the Sabbath when the pilgrims rested from their travels (Ibid., page 37). They brought with them across the plains every available:... Treatise on education—every book, map, chart, or diagram... Every historical, mathematical, philosophical, geological, astronomical, scientific, practical treatise which they could find; and such printing or writing paper as was available to them. When they reached the Valleys of the Mountains, the next thing they did after putting in crops was to open schools for their children (Ibid., page 38). Time will not permit us to follow RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 the development of Church education in the West. Suffice it to say that it was carried forward here with the same vigor and interest as in the East. In 1850 the University of Utah had its beginnings in the University of Deseret, the first state university west of the Missouri River. The Church always has and does now encourage secular learning. We are proud of our over-all record therein and of individual members who have attained distinction in their chosen professions. We point with pride to Church members who have excelled in science, literature, and other fields. 'There is no limit to our search for truth. We seck everything "... Virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy..." (13th Article of Faith). The peculiar educational function of the Church, however, does not lie in the area of secular learning. By divine commission it lies in the field of religious education. The primary purpose for the learning which the Lord directed the saints to seek was clearly set forth in the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple as follows: And do thou grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as thou hast said... (D & C 109:14). And to what purpos?.. That they may grow up in thee, and receive a fulness of the Holy Ghost, and be organized according to thy laws, and be prepared to obtain every needful thing (D & C 109:15). This prayer was given to the Prophet Joseph Smith by revelation. YOUR QUEST FOR TRUTH This quotation makes clear that in the Lord's view one's learning is complete only when he is guided by the Holy Spirit. Speaking to this point, the Prophet said: Man was created to dress the earth, and to cultivate his mind, and glorify God. It therefore cannot be amiss for us at this early period, to urge the disciples of our Lord, to study to show 'themselves approved in all things. For, when a disciple, educated, even as Paul at the feet of Gamaliel, is guided by the Holy Spirit, he not only edifies his fellow beings correctly, but he improves his faculties agreeable to the will of God (Puriuuips, A. B.: The Restoration Movement and the Latter-day Saints, page 204, quoted in BERRETT AND Burton's Readings in L. D. S. Church History, I, page 220). E know that the truth of which Jesus spoke when he said,... If ye continue in my word.... Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:31-32), is not to be had through the learning of the world alone. So far as history records, there never has been a time when secular learning was so far advanced and widespread as it is today, and yet we do not enjoy this freedom. On the contrary, it seems to be as elusive as it ever was. Discerning educators themselves are pointing out this unhappy fact. Although they have not found the key to the truth of which Jesus spoke, they are calling attention to the need for its guiding and sustaining power. Because we spend so much time in American higher education on_ science, and so little time on religion [says John T. Wahlquist, President of San Jose State College,| most students must conclude that science is the most important form of knowledge and that religion is relative- 577 ly unimportant in life (A Matter of Emphasis, page 2). About two months ago the Boston Herald, under the caption: "Harvard Students Ask More Religion Courses,"" said: Students think about the most profound questions of their lives in religious symbols. Beyond doubt, their interest in religious issues is keen. 'To avoid discussing these things is to neglect a responsibility and an opportunity. President Sproul, of the University of California, only last month rated the spirit of man above the mind of man in its potential for good or evil. "Our commission," said he, "deals with the mind of man, which next to the spirit of man is the greatest of human potentials for good or for evil" (Sprout, RosERT G.: Western Regional Conference on Education Beyond the High School, April 10, 1957). Unless society can build an effective system of religious education to match its system of secular schools {said Dean Emeritus Athearn of Boston University], our nation will crumble just as certainly as did Greece and Rome, and for the same reason (Ibid., page 3). Now these educators speak truth in their conclusions that secular education alone is inadequate to deal with the problems of our society. They also speak truth when they conclude that the solution to these problems is to be found in religious education. 'Their conclusions, however, do not solve the problems, nor do they offer any program, either of substance or procedure, which will solve them. What we must learn which they do not teach is that truth which Jesus said will make us free. O attain this truth we must draw upon a source of knowledge which lies above and beyond the reach of ordinary learning processes. Now I know, as you do, that our possession of any such knowledge is frequently denied. Some months ago I listened to a learned lecturer discuss the question, "Is religious knowledge possible?" We must conclude [he summarized]... That we do not possess any religious knowledge, [that is] knowledge which concerns specifically religious matters and which is neither identical with any scientific know]- edge nor included within the scope of any science ('Great Issues," Forum Series, Series 2: Religion, pp. 4, 13). We here at Brigham Young, however, are not deceived by such benighted conclusions. They but remind us of the significant saying of Jesus, "The light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth it not..." (D & C 88:49). They recall the Savior's interview with Nicodemus, the learned member of the Jewish Sanhedrin who, you will remember, came to Jesus by night with the implied purpose of learning from him his identity and his message.. Rabbi [he said], we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him (John 3:2). In this statement Nicodemus unwittingly but clearly revealed the fact that he was spiritually dead; that he could not discern the divinity of Jesus. All he could see in the Son of God was a superior teacher. This was, of course, entirely consistent with his statement that he based his conclusion upon what he had seen and heard of the Master's miracles. Jesus promptly informed him that the knowledge he sought was not to be had on such evidence alone; that without the aid of a superior learning process, a process sensitive to the infinite world of reality above and beyond the world of sensory perception, the kingdom of God could neither be seen nor entered.... Verily, verily, I say unto thee," he said, "Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of. God" (John 3:3). Now as learned and skilled and wise as was Nicodemus, he could not grasp the meaning of this simple truth. As a matter of fact, he was baffled by it. "... How can a man be born when he is old?" he inquired... "Can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born?" (John 3:4). But Jesus persisted. Still seeking to enlighten the darkened mind of Nicodemus, he patiently explained, "That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit" (John 3:6). Nicodemus, however, having not yet been born again, was still insentient to the things of the Spirit. He just could not understand that Jesus was saying there were two sources of knowledge which were to be got at through different processes of learning, one through the normal senses of the flesh, the other through the voice of the Spirit. Paul's lucid explanation to the Corinthians might have been helpful to him. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom [wrote Paul], but in demonstration of the Spirit... 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 YOUR QUEST FOR TRUTH That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of Ged... Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard [he continued], neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. [That is to say, the things of the spirit, the verities of eternity, ultimate truth are not to be had alone through the learning process of men.| But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spint: {he testified] for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God... But the natural man [he concluded], receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned (I Cor., 2:4 ff.). Marvel not [continued Jesus with his lesson to Nicodemus], that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit (John 3:7-8). OW Iam not certain that I comprehend the full meaning of this challenging text. I am persuaded, however, that the Master was here affirming that the knowledge to be obtained through the gift of the Holy Ghost—the issue of that rebirth of which he had spoken—is just as sure and certain as that the wind blows. He meant to give assurance that this process of learning about things of the spirit is real, even though its workings cannot be understood by those who have not been born again. Through the gift and power of the Holy Ghost, divine truth has been revealed to men from the beginning. To Father Adam and continuing through all dispensations, heavenly messengers have communicated gospel truths to holy 579 men, who, in turn, have taught and recorded them for the benefit of all who will use them in their search for knowledge. Many great and eternal truths have been revealed, truths which transcend the wisdom of men as the heavens transcend the earth. The Prophet Joseph Smith characterized the vision in which the degrees of heavenly glory were revealed to him as "a transcript from the records of the eternal world." The sublimity of the ideas; the purity of the language; the scope for action... Are so much beyond the narrow-mindedness of men [he said], that every honest man is constrained to exclaim: "It came from God" (D. H. C., 1:252-253). From this exhaustless source of eternal truth has come knowledge concerning the nature of God and our relationship to him without which men can comprehend the purpose of life little better than the beasts. (See D. H. C. Vl:303.) In one of the revelations we learn that "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth," and that "Light and truth forsake that evil one' (D & C 93:36-37). In the same revelation this truth, which is one of the components of that intelligence which is the glory of God, is defined as knowledge, "... Knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come whatsoever is more or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning' (D & C 93:24-25). From these two definitions it seems clear that light, the other component of that intelligence which is the glory of God, is the wisdom and ability to forsake everything "more or less" than truth. Jesus pointed out to Nicodemus the steps by which he could, and every other child of God can, be born again, that is, have his understanding opened to the things of the Spirit. You, of course, know that these steps are the first principles and ordinances of the gospel—faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, and reception of the Holy Ghost. If you will, by complying with these requirements, come into possession of and cultivate the gift of the Holy Ghost, the spirit of revelation, which is the learning process by which truth is divined, and if you will search the scriptures until you become acquainted with the store of divine knowledge recorded in them, you will possess the key by which the conclusions of men may be tested to see if they comport with that truth which is knowledge of things as they are, as they were, and as they are to come. HE importance of correctly judging between truth and error in these conclusions cannot be overestimated. It is thus emphasized by the prophet Mormon:. Take heed, my beloved brethren, that ye do not judge that which is evil to be of God, or that which is good and of God to be of the devil.... For behold, the Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good from evil; wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. [In other words that it is truth.] But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil [he continued], and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect know ledge it is of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work. And now, my brethren, secing that ye know the light by which ye may judge, which light is the light of Christ, see that ye do not judge wrongfully; for with that same judgment which ye judge ye shall also be judged (Moroni 7:14, 16-18). In applying this test, that everything that persuadeth to believe in Christ is of God and that everything which persuadeth not to believe in Christ is of the devil, we start with the assurance that whatever the Lord has revealed is truth, "diamond truth," to borrow a phrase from the Prophet, that it is consistent with all that is, all that was, and all that is to come. This is and must be so because God's wisdom is infinite, being founded upon complete knowledge. "... All things," said the Prophet Lehi speaking of the works of God, "have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things" (2 Nephi 2:24). Implicit in this text is the assumption that wisdom is dependent upon knowledge and that God's wisdom is infinite because he is omniscient. "... He knoweth all things, and there is not anything save he knows it" (2 Nephi 9:20). He possesses with respect to all matters that knowledge which is truth, the object of our search, "knowledge of things as they are... As they were, and as they are to come." By the same token, man's wisdom, being based upon that knowledge only which has been learned through sensory perception during the short period of recorded history, is finite. Few indeed possess the arrogance to contest the supremacy of God's infinite wisdom. Certainly no one 580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 YOUR QUEST FOR TRUTH who has-been born again and who still enjoys the fruits of that rebirth will do so. Now, my dear young graduates, you who would wisely continue your quest for truth, constantly apply the test prescribed by Mormon. Does what you have learned persuade you "to do good" and "to believe in Christ?" If so, it is "of God," and being of God it is truth. It will never have to be repudiated. That you may understand more clearly what I have in mind, let me give you an illustration or two. One of the fundamental doctrines of revealed truth is that in the garden of Eden God endowed men with free agency. (See Moses 7:32.) The preservation of this free agency is more important than the preservation of life itself. Indeed, the independence to act for oneself is life, for without it "... There is no existence" (D & C 93:30). It is, therefore, clear that everything which militates against man's enjoyment of this endowment persuades not to believe in Christ, for he is the author of free agency. Now the world today is in the throes of a great social and political revolution. In almost every department of our society laws and practices are being proposed daily and adopted which greatly alter the course of our lives. Indeed, some of them are literally shaking the foundations of our political and social institutions. If you would know truth from error in this bitterly contested arena, apply Mormon's test to these innovations. Do they facilitate or restrict the exercise of man's divine endowment of free agency? 'Tested by this standard, most of them will fall quickly into 581 their proper category as between good and evil. NHERENT in the law of free agency is the principle of accountability. 'The scriptures affirm that in their exercise of free agency, men judge themselves and that they will be held accountable for their choices, for "... Whosoever will not come the same is not compelled to come," says Alma, "but in the last day it shall be restored unto him according to his deeds" (Alma 42:27). Recently, I heard a sociologist explain to a gathering of young people that society and not the individual is responsible for his misconduct. How does this concept stand up when tested by the revealed principle of accountability '. Tlvat men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression" (2d Article of Faith), and that every man, in the day of judgment, will "... Be accountable for his own sins..." (D & C 101:78). For our concluding illustration, let us turn to that perennial problem, "the origin of man." At the very heart of revealed truth is the doctrine that Jesus atoned for the "Fall of Adam." The immediate result of the fall [as taught by revealed truth] was the substitution of mortality, with all its attendant frailties, for the vigor of [Adam's] the primeval deathless state (TALMAGE, James E.: Articles of Faith, page 67). This doctrine that Adam lived in a deathless state before "the fall" persuadeth to believe in Christ and his atonement. 'Therefore, according to Mormon, it is of God—that is, it is truth. I suggest that in your search for knowledge, you examine the conclusions of science as to the origin of man to see, if in harmony with God's revealed truth, they account for this deathless state. If not, then they do not persuade to believe in Christ, and therefore, according to Mormon, are not of God. In your quest for truth, you will do well to apply this test in other fields. Should you, in doing so, discover conflicts between revealed truth and men's conclusions, you need not be too concerned about reconciling these conflicts. 'Truth and error cannot be reconciled. All you need to do is distinguish between them, accept the truth and forsake the error. That is what the Lord has always done. In fact, his ability to do so is, as we have seen, inherent in the intelligence which is his glory. The error of Lucifer and the truth of Jesus could not be reconciled even in heaven. Error had to be cast out. Jesus spoke with finality on this matter when he said: No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon (Mt. 6:24). This is just as true in the realms of thought and faith as it is in the fields of action. Should conflicts in fact, or seemingly, arise between revealed truth and the conclusions drawn by men in their search for that knowledge which is truth, the safe course is always to accept, hold fast to, and rely upon the word of God. When all the facts are in, science will come to that truth which God already knows and which he speaks in his revelations to men. HE unique commission of your Alma Mater, the Brigham Young University, has always been and now is threefold. First, to help you recognize that there are two sources of learning, one divine, the other human; second, to urge and inspire you students to drink deeply from both sources; and third, to teach and train you correctly to distinguish between the learning of the world and revealed truth that you may not be deceived in your search. This unique commission puts peculiar responsibility upon both teachers and students not imposed by any other university on the globe. The teacher at Brigham Young University has an obligation to keep these distinctions clear in his own thinking and in his own heart, and to make sure that they are indelibly stamped upon the minds and hearts of his students. The student has the obligation to realize that an acquaintance with the learning of men, as well as a knowledge of the revealed word of God, is essential to a proper discharge of our teaching obligation to the world. Don't let anyone persuade you there is anything narrow-minded or provincial or bigoted about this view. Both the teacher and the student who have been born again, who have been on the mountaintop and _ beheld in vision the mighty mission of this University in saving the souls of men, enjoy here a freedom available in no other university—the freedom to seek learning, both human and divine, "by study and also by faith," and the freedom to teach without restriction the finite wisdom of men by the glowing light of the infinite wisdom of God, so far as he 582 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 YOUR QUEST FOR TRUTH has revealed it. The spiritually reborn do not have their academic freedom restricted but greatly extended at Bingham Young University. Equipped with the fruit of an education on this campus, you graduates should continue your quest for truth with the certain knowledge that "the spirit of truth is of God," 583 and with a fixed determination unceasingly to pursue the goal inspired in the promise: He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things (D & C 93:28). That you may eventually reach this goal is my humble praycr. <-> 7 ystic Wo rd Eva Willes Wangsgaard Golden is a mystic word Calling up a topaz bird, The molten song a meadowlark Sings to dawn with skies still dark; A daffodil, a marigold, The midday sun the cowslips hold, An apple bite, banana husk, A melon's amber smell of musk; The golden dust a bee let fall From hoilyhocks' pink-ruffled wall, Swept away by the wind's thin broom To find the future's infinite bloom; The living gold forever descending To life beginning from life ending. I MlotherBy-Lo ve Maude Rubin Oh, she knew the way of a young wife's heart, And gave me her son for my very own— Aware that no wife could take that part Of this lasting love that was hers alone! She lent peace and strength through the weary length Of slow-ticking hours one fearful night... When our first-born's breath hovered near to death; She dried my tears and held the light. Let no knife-sharp thrust of an ancient joke Leave its echoing ring of laughter's sound— For she was a friend who would give or lend A wing of comfort the whole year round. No phrase like mother-in-law could prove The way I feel toward my mother-by-love! She Wost Spanish-American (ee Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian URING the first week of November 1957, the First Presidency announced that a new mission of the Church had been formed, to be known as the West Spanish-American Mission. Los Angeles was selected as the headquarters of the new mission, and Leland M. Perry of Provo, Utah, was chosen as the first president. President Perry had served in many positions of leadership in the Church, and he and his wife were missionaries in Mexico in 1925-27. The territory of this new mission includes the States of California and Arizona and southeastern Nevada. This area was formerly under the jurisdiction of the Spanish-American Mission, with headquarters in San Antonio, Texas, and a number of branches had already been developed among Spanish-speaking people. It is estimated that there are now nearly one million Spanish-speaking people within the borders of the new mission. In February 1958, a large, hacienda-style home, on the corner of Via Corona and Sadler Avenues, East Los Angeles, was purchased for a mission home. Shortly afterwards President and Mrs. Perry arrived at the new headquarters after spending several days in San Antonio, Texas, where they consulted with President Harold I. Bowman of the SpanishAmerican Mission. 'Transfer of missionaries, mission records, and operation of the mission were discused during the visit in 'Texas. Photograph submitted by McNone N. Perry WEST SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION HOME East Los Angeles, California THE WEST SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION 585 e 4 ¢ PHOtégraph ainsatea by McNone N. Perry SCENE IN OLVERA STREET, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA The city of Los Angeles was founded in 1781 by a group of cleven familics under the leadership of Governor Felipe de Neve. Olvera Street is the oldest thoroughfare in the city. The iron caldron at the right was used for making tallow; in the left foreground may be seen the historic marker; and just behind the marker is an old ox-cart with wooden wheels. The bells (in the center of the picture, at the top) were made in 1690 and later transported to Los Angeles. During the early part of March, 1958, Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve, visited the new West Spanish-American Mission. He was accompanied by Mrs. Kimball, and they, with President and Mts. Perry, made a tour of the mission. The actual membership of the new mission has not yet been ascertained, but on May 31, 1958, there were 28 full-time missionaries laboring under the direction of President Perry. McNone N. Perry presides over the West Spanish-American Mission Relief Society. | oe @ TYPICAL PURITAN CLOTHING Illustrated are a laced bodice (bodies) and a cloak with hood. A child, wearing a dress with hanging sleeve, stands by the grandmother. &veryday Life in Colonial lew &ngland (1620-1781 ) Part II. Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Illustrations by Virginia Sargent Of Clothes T would be contrary to fact to visualize the Puritans wearing only dark, somber clothing. During the first years of settlement their clothing was sober and somewhat restrained, with practically no ornamentation. But as trade with England increased, those who could afford it followed the styles of London both in color and design. Though working clothes were often of unPage 586 dyed homespun woolen, normally the Puritans wore bright colors. Russet, gray, green, and dark blue were worn, but we must not forget that William Brewster of Plymouth had coats of purple and blue and a green waistcoat, and even Governor Bradford left a red waistcoat with silver buttons and a Turkey-red grogram suit. A certain amount of uniformity of style prevailing in the early years makes possible some generalizations: There were jerkins and doublets of leather for men; cloaks and the smocklike cassock (with sleeves) to be worn in cold weather. Cloaks, sometimes with hoods, worn by both men and women, were often of scarlet color. Baggy leather breeches; with knitted wool or tailored cloth stockings, were worn in early Salem days. In fact, leather breeches continued to be worn by farmers and working men until the beginning of the nineteenth century. Buttons, considered a vanity, were taboo the first few years, but before long there were buttons galore. Fastening was done by means of hooks and eyes, loops, or by points (short strings or tapes for tying). Women's skirts were known as "petticoats," of which several might be worn at a time. The feminine doublet of 1630 was replaced by the front-and-back laced bodice called a "pair of bodies." It is interesting to see how some standard clothing articles have changed in name. A petticoat was called a shift; a lounging robe was a nightgown; a nightgown was known as a rail; house slippers were slip shoes or slips. Anyone wearing them out of doors might appropriately be called "'slipshod." Clogs with wooden soles, a strap over the instep, were to be worn over the shoes when walking through the mud, which was often. Children were dressed as their parents after about six years of age. "Hanging sleeves" (see illustration) attached at the shoulders of children's clothing, were of assistance in teaching a child to walk, and their use beyond this need was somewhat similar to the "toddler's leash" of today. Aversion to men wearing their hair long earned for the English Puritans the name of Round Heads, but many Puritans in England and in the colonies did have Tong hair. By the end of the seventeenth century a completely new vogue in masculine hair style was being resisted by many and called an "abomination" by that staunch yet hearty New Englander Samuel Sewall. But eventually many who had condemned the wearing of wigs succumbed to that prevailing fashion. A portrait of one of those succumbing males shows him "looking out from an enveloping mass of curled white locks, as if some one had poured a bushel of cotton over his head." The women, being human, and interested in fashion and _ fabrics, wore fine linens, silk, and lace. Had it been the prevailing mode, they, too, might have worn the slender sheath or the modern chemise. Of Community and Home The village was the basis for religious, social, and political life in early New England. It was a unit of life, small, concentrated and isolated; so concentrated and intimate that people of the village knew each other's virtues and weaknesses: how many cloaks goodwife Bachiler owned, how many feather beds she inherited from her grandfather, and how much pewter she had in her kitchen. The land was divided into townships and subdivided into farms or "freeholds." In Plymouth they tried holding land in common. 'The church was the nucleus and the town meeting was instituted as a governing body. Until after GoverEVERYDAY LIFE IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 587 nor Bradford's death, neither church membership nor ownership of land were requirements for voting. In the Bay Colony every voter had an equal voice in the meeting, but to vote one had to be a church member and to own land. The church was the center of community life, and loss of church membership meant loss of the vote. An open lot, called the "common" was set aside as common property to be used by any townsman for grazing of his livestock. In an attempt to maintain civic and moral standards, the Puritans legislated against many offenses. Recall pictures of persons being publicly punished in the stock or pillory with a sign hung on them to indicate the nature of their offense. Examples are the "B" for blasphemer or "D" for drunkard. Humiliation was the basis for punishment. More serious offenses brought greater punishment, and opposition to established religious views might even bring banishment, as Roger Williams and Anne Hutchinson discovered. The average age for first marriages in early New England was not very different from that of today. Girls were seldom married younger than eighteen, often after twenty or twenty-one. Men were usually somewhat older. Bachelors were uncommon. 'The conclusion that Puritans did not have large families is probably due to the high death rate which brought fewer children to maturity. Only six of Samuel Sewall's fourteen children lived to 4 mature age; only three survived him. Since physicians were scarce, the colonists were more dependent upon their knowledge of herbs and "simples" than we realize. 'The local minister often served as town physician, while midwives attended the lying in. 'The marriage ceremony was regarded as a civil and not a religious rite; banns were published, and shortly after, the young couple appeared before the magistrate. As early as 1642 a law was passed requiring all parents to teach their children to read as well as to learn a trade. Five years later the law required each township of fifty families to support a school in which reading and writing would be taught; every township of a hundred families was expected to support a grammar school which would prepare its students for college. And thus the public school system was firmly established. Perhaps few Puritans were as affectionately expressive as Anne Bradstreet, but we may be sure that they loved their families and enjoyed their homes. Although religion and church affairs played so important a role in communities "dedicated to religious principles," the home was the center of their lives. Puritan families attended church services in midweek as well as on the Sabbath, and they also read the Bible daily in their homes. Here family members engaged in homecrafts which made the home the center of creative activity. Spinning, weaving, tailoring, candle and soapmaking, and even the making of spoons and other kitchen articles from discarded pewter were homecrafts. We seldom hear of women working in the fields, although they often took complete charge of the dairy. As towns grew in size, and money became more available, homecrafts moved out of the home and into the town shops of the professional arti- 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 FORDING A RIVER BY CANOE san, the whitesmith (who made articles of tin); the joiner (called the cabinetmaker after 1700); and the pewterer (later the silversmith). John Alden, who came on the Mayflower as a cooper (maker of barrels, crates, pails, etc.), later became New England's first cabinetmaker. We know much of the men who fathered the New World. Perhaps in the letters and diaries which have and have not survived the burnings and attic cleanings of the years, ls to be found the real story of the women who lovingly and courageously mothered it. Of Travel Travel between communities in the 1600's was linnited because at first there were no roads, but the widening of bridle trails by hatchet and ax eventually resulted in country roads called Kings Highways. Only one of these highways, now known as the Boston Post Road, connected one colony with another. Even after roads became wide enough for carts or stage coaches, land travel was neither easy nor safe. Fallen trees, mud holes, and tree roots often overturned vehicles or broke cart wheels. Most travelers carried an ax, and only the expert proceeded upon the highways without a guide. Crossing of rivers was done at fords or by ferries propelled by oars or ropes. Wooden or stone bridges were often washed away by storms. It required a great deal of courage for Madam Sarah Kemble Knight, daughter of a Boston merchant, to make a journey from Boston to New York by horse in the autumn of 1704. Few Puritan women of her day would have attempted such a journey. The detailed account of this experience, vividly written, assures us that she had no relish for EVERYDAY LIFE IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 589 fording rivers in the night, nor for crossing them on warped or stormstrained bridges. Still less did she enjoy creeping over a timber of a broken bridge perhaps fifty feet above the water. And it is little wonder that she was so frightened when crossing a river by "cannoo" that she scarcely dared to put her "tongue more on one side of her mouth than the other." But she made the entire journey and _returned by land, although when Josiah Quincy traveled this same road sixty-nine years later, he returned by water rather than make that difficult journey again by land. "Ordinaries" along the roads, in time and as traveling increased, developed into real inns. Mail was received at these inns and left lying on a table to be claimed later by the addressee or someone willing to take it to him. Of the Arts Pioneering is, in general, not conducive to the highest development of the arts, since the most practical aspects of life must be of first concern. The Puritans, discouraging extravagance and display, objected to symbolism as diverting man's communion with God. They "despised" the ancient pageantry of worship because they would have no "sensual symbols" come between them and their Creator. But there is ample evidence that they appreciated beauty in the everyday things of life and were capable of creating it. It is of interest, too, that many of America's most distinguished painters, musicians, sculptors, and poets have been descendants of New England Puritans. The limners who painted tavern and shop signs and coats of arms for carriages did the first portraits, and there is not much in the art of painting, during the early part of the colonial period of which we may boast. In fact some of the very strict early Puritans considered a portrait a vanity. The gravestone was the only medium for sculpture in early New England. At first there was a simple inscription; the second and _ third generations used conventional borders of fruit or foliage in the lettering and included emblems of the hourglass, scythe, skull, and angel's wings. Here we find the beginning of a true folk art which developed during the next century. The attitude of Colonial New England toward music has been a picture clouded by erroneous ideas concerning the Puritans in general. That all Puritans lived drab, gloomy, prohibitive lives and that they "hated" secular music is without confirmation. However, Calvin's doubts regarding the divinity of "the divine art" were no doubt reflected in the general atitude of "distrust" of music during the first years. Since the Hebrews undoubtedly employed psalm singing, the Pil grims and Puritans allowed psalms to be sung during their devotions. It is of interest that the first book published in the English colonies of North America was the Bay Psalm Book (1640), and from the desire to sing the psalms properly came the earliest New England singing schools. The psalms were at first sung in unison, without accompaniment. Not until 1750 did choir singing begin to take the place of crude congregational psalm singing. In 1770, 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 io Cm Hos Bp 1 Dd / hs Ry qd vu | ut _ Mkk oe L Z m EARLY PURITAN SCIIOOLING Insert at upper left of picture shows a horn-book, the first primer from which the children learned their letters. It was a thin, paddle-shaped piece of wood, with a parchment page attached, protected by a sheet of transparent horn. For the first time in American history, a Congregational Church in Providence allowed an organ to be used in its services. We read that in 1720 "regular singing" (singing by note rather than by ear) was studied, known, and approved by Harvard College. From references to the undesirable influence of frivolous and bawdy songs we conclude that the attitude of Puritans toward music was not intolerant but moralistic, and also that "worldly strangers" sang songs that were not approved by the more "cultivated" Puritans. There are a few references to musical instruments in New England before 1700, but they are rare. The Puritans frowned upon the use of instrumental "mussick" in religious worship because they felt that it savored of "popery," but they did not object to the private use of any instrument. A Boston newspaper in 1716 announced the arrival from London of a shipment of instruments, including books of instruction and lined paper. The Puritans revered education, fostered printing and book collecting; they encouraged the reading of EVERYDAY LIFE IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 591 592 history and the recording of all events that would preserve for posterity a knowledge of "remarkable providences." They read poetry and hundreds of them tried writing it, but they did not approve of the drama, the first playhouse opening in Boston in 1794 — more than a decade after the close of the colonial period. The Puritans were not hostile to science, for the theologians were educated men, eager to keep informed on the movements of their day, and they were receptive to new scientific theories. Therefore, religion proved to be a stimulant rather than a restraint, and a number of the colonists were elected to that great scientific academy, the Royal Society of London. The New England writer wrote to instruct and to edify. He knew that his reading and listening audiences, in general, consisted of plain villagers, fishermen, small shopkeepers, and farmers who knew little about abstract philosophy. He, therefore, concentrated upon realistic phrasing with similies and metaphors drawn from the common experiences of life, rather than alluding to the classics. He knew he must express his lofty ideas in phrases that would not cheapen them, but at the same time would let his readers feel and understand. The sea, the field, and the village RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 home became a vivid part of even sermons and cadenced prose. In the Puritan writings there is a certain unity and dignity; a respect for the humanities; and always a consideration for values other than the merely material. The zealous Puritan believed that "learning was next to godliness and hardly to be separated from it." Personal literature (the informal journal, diary, and biography) was a natural literary expression, for the Puritan was concerned in keeping a record of his thoughts and acts as a means of self-judgment. He would appraise his growth toward an assurance of salvation. The intellectual strength of the Puritan was his knowledge of the Bible, and its influence was reflected in the best of his writings, some of which have both simile and balance, and they linger in the memory like music. Surely one who dedicated his life to the ideal of goodness was not far from the source of all beauty. Referring to the Pilgrim attempt to establish in his beloved community a true spiritual fellowship, William Bradford, Governor of Plymouth for more than _ thirty years, wrote these prophetic words in his history Of Plimoth Plantation:. And as one small candle may light a thousand, so the light here kindled hath shown to many, yea in some sort of our whole nation; let the glorious name of Jehova have all the praise. BIBLIOGRAPHY Acueson, Parricia C.: America's Colonial Heritage, Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. Cuasr, GirBert: America's Music, McGraw-Hill Book Co., Inc., New York. Exson, Lewis C.: American Music, Macmillan, New York. Lanpcon, WiLiiam Cuauncu: Everyday Things in American Life—1607-1776, Charles Scribner and Sons, New York, 1937. MILLER, PERRY, AND JOHNSON, THOMAS H.: The Puritans. Mortson, SAMUEL Extior: Builders of the Bay Colony, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, 1930. Murpock, Kennetu B.: Literature and Theology in Colonial New England, Cambndge, Harvard University Press, 1949. Situ, Braprorp: Bradford of Plymouth, Lippincott, Philadelphia, 1951. Tunis, Epwin: Colonial Living, World Publications, 1957. WaLier, Georce M., Edited by: Puritanism in Early America, D. C. Heath, Boston. Mass. WERTENBAKER, THOMAS: The Puritan Oligarchy, Universal Library. O She Apple Packer Linnie Fisher Robinson Here at the table my hands must fly And grade the apples, shining and high, Before the sun goes down. I feel the breeze that scurries the leaves That follow shadowy paths away Through the autumn quiet of after-day. "That basket's done, another's begun," The treetops greet the hills, "Please bring the lid," a busy voice trills! The leaves drift high with the purple haze Through these strange enchanting days That winter will blanket over. But [ll see the orchard green again Trimmed with crimson, gold, and brown— And weighted with apples tumbling down, And the packer's wonder—beauty fed, While hands grade apples—harvested-sped... Before the sun goes down. —o—<—o Qeuseen eee Ethel Jacobson I need no special day to store Sweet memories, to love you more. This marks no milestone set apart By troth first plighted, heart to heart, No blessed date we ringed in red As heaven smiled, and we were wed. No anniversary is this, To bring a rose, an extra kiss. But every day the tale's the same: Clearer, brighter burns the flame, Burns and glows. So it goes. Years pass; love grows. EVERYDAY LIFE IN COLONIAL NEW ENGLAND 593 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NatIoNns" DEATH OF PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF: Who soweth good seed shall surely reap: The year grows rich as it groweth old And life's latest sands are its sands of gold. How true this is of the life just gone out... The life of that great, good, and reverend man, President Wilford Woodruff.... His name will go down to remotest ages because of his great kindness, his gentle tenderness and his love of simplicity.... He was in all times and all places essentially a peacemaker... He had no enemies, his humility was most remarkable.... For the gospel he was willing to endure all things.... —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN MALAD STAKE (IDAHO): — Sister E. B. Wells said that by being organized in the Relief Society we become better acquainted and learn to love each other better with the love the gospel brings. Spoke of the necessity of storing grain, said this work was established by the direct counsel of the Prophet Brigham Young. We should have grain on hand for a time of need. "Teach your children the law of tithing, strive to live in all the ways of the Lord and pay an honest tithing ourselves...." —Eliza A. Hall, Sec. THE COMING ELECTION: The November election is not far off and it is certainly one of the most important elections in the history of Utah. 'The elective franchise given to the women ought to mean something more than a mere plaything to be used or thrown aside, it should stand for sacred privileges, for the betterment of all classes, for reforms in all places.... —Selected A GOOD LETTER: Please find enclosed one dollar subscription for the present volume of the Exponent, always a welcome visitor. To me it contains many rich gems of sublime thought and inspiration. I delight to read and know what the sisters of this and other lands are doing, their methods and manners of conducting their meetings, also the testimonies of the handmaids of the Lord.... —Mary Baxter Spanish Fork, Utah A WOMAN ASTRONOMER: Lady Huggins is as gifted an astronomer as was Caroline Herschel or Marie Mitchel. It was under her profound and self-acquired knowledge of this science that attracted to the unassuming Irish lady the bnilliant astronomer, Sir William Huggins. Lady Huggins has not sought favor for herself, but is content to be her husband's assistant and every night she works in their observatory by his side. To her is due a share of the honor achieved by Sir William for the discovery by means of the spectroscope, of the composition of the heavenly bodies. —Selected Page 594 ARBARA WARD (wife of Sir Ronald Jackson), a British peeress, is an internationally recognized sociologist who delivered the commencement address at Harvard University last spring. Among her scholarly and authentic books are the following volumes on world affairs: The "Interplay of East and West, The West at Bay, and Faith and Freedom. ISS FATMA MUHIB isa gifted artist who painted the famous murals on the walls of the Jerusalem airport. Her work is known internationally, and her widely heralded painting "The Caravan Leader" was exhibited in many galleries in the United States, last year. UTH GRUBER, well-known newspaper and magazine correspondent, has written an informative book on Israel Today — Land of Many Nations, to coincide with Israel's tenth anniversary festival year. She succeeds in making the reader understand something of the kaleidoscopic life of a new nation representing immigrants from seventy countries. In addition to colorful descriptions of the country and its people, music, art, and industry, the book contains a section on the Dead Sea Scrolls. Woman's Sphere Ramona W.. Cannon RINCESS ASTRID, twenty-sixvear-old daughter of King Olay, is Norway's First Lady and official hostess for her father. Her mother, former Princess Martha, died in 1954 and Astrid then assumed the duties of Queen for both her agestricken grandfather and her father. The royal family barely escaped the Nazis in 1940, and Astrid, with her mother and brother and sister, came to America in a ship crowded with refugees. She lived at Pook's Hill and went to school at Bethesda, returning to Norway after four years. In May 1958 she returned to America, traveling in state to represent her country at Muinnesota's centennial celebration. Minnesota was founded by Scandinavians. According to Norwegian law, Astrid cannot inherit the throne, but if all male heirs should die, the people could elect her Queen. LADYS DENNY SCHULZ and Daisy Gordon Lawrence have written Lady From Savannah, an account of the life of Juliette Gordon, "Daisy" Low, a woman of "quicksilver and pepper,' who eventually set aside a glamorous social life in England and the South to found the Girl Scouts of America. The book has been called "fascinating, enchanting." Page 595 IITORIAL <2 VOL. 45 SEPTEMBER 1958 NO. 9 Grandparents in the Family Pattern Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like a shock of corn cometh in his season (Job 5:26). RANDPARENTS by virtue of their years, their sacrifices, and their wisdom, have become a stabilizing influence in many family patterns. 'They are able to understand the problems and the yearnings of the age groups through which they have passed, and they can discern as the Bible says, "the end from the beginning." 'They have been disciplined and tempered, and they know the joy that may be found in the security and the spiritual unity of the family pattern. From life experiences grandparents have much to offer, and the older ones in their nearer approach to the eternities, have increased spiritual perceptions. 'They have learned to separate the lasting treasures of earth from its evanescent satisfactions. 7 Recently, two sisters, visiting the family homestead, stood on the nm of a desert hill and saw remnants of their grandmother's cabin, pieces of her stove, the frame of an old clock. They recalled the days when the grandmother was young and supported her family by wresting a living from the barren earth. 'The sisters had never known hunger for food, but sorrows and disappointments had tried their spirits. One of them found a battered tin plate and held it in her hand, and said, "There was courage on this hill and Page 596 that courage is in the line of our ancestry. It is the family pattern." A grandfather who had spent his life in labor and sacrifice and love for his family came near to the time of his farewell days. He thought of his sixteen-year-old granddaughter and wrote her a letter proffering a "Grandfather's Blessing." He spoke of the Bible as a guide, of the light of the gospel, of continuity of the family in the "mansions of eternity." The letter closed with a blessing: And in that future day, When my girl is a woman grown And the worries of life surround her, May Grandpa's prayers be known. With much to give of spiritual wealth, grandparents are a blessing to their posterity. It should be remembered that they also have needs —sometimes material needs — but always the need for companionship and love. In the gospel plan, it is the responsibility of families to provide for their own in every possible way. A grandson took his aged grandfather to a store to buy him a new suit. The grandfather expressed his hesitancy in accepting such a gift and said that since this would probably be the only suit he would ever need, that it should be expensive, but the grandson said, "If this is to be your last suit, then it must be the finest one you have ever had." EDITORIAL If grandparents live separate from the young families, they need to be visited often, they need frequent expressions of concern for their welfare. They need to know that their long disciplined wisdom is valued in the family pattern. Particularly the elderly grandparents, as they approach the door to the next phase in their everlasting life, need to have 597 cause for rejoicing in the young representatives of their lineage who are continuing the family pattern. One gencration passcth away, and another generation comcth.... So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts to wisdom (Kecles. 1:4; Psalms 85:12). —V. P. C. — Gn a Swing Christie Lund Coles A woman swings beside her child In the pale autumn weather; Soft as tulle upon the land, Broken soon the tether That bound them through the summer days When swinging was light-hearted, When laughter shook delphinium bells, And birds had not departed; She leans her cheek against her hand, Listening to wild geese calling. The swinging slows beneath her foot, She sees the last leaf falling. -_- So Mozart Bernice Ames With the first clear note I am lost, bird-free, to harmony And wing the blue air In fluent phrases of flight. With your fragile sandpiper steps On the smooth drifted beach of sound Running toward coolness and shadow And back into light, You feather the moment. With your fingers pacing the deep base clef And your thoughts racing at treble pitch, You release a miracle of song Bright to the steady pulse of the evening, A moon-glistened branch for the spirit's return. Recipes From the West Spanish-American Mission Submitted by McNone N. Perry CuILes RELLENOS 12 green California chiles 7 tbs. Flour 6 eggs 1 tbs. Oil (or melted shortening) 1 lb. Longhorn cheese Separate eggs. Beat whites till very stiff. Beat yolks till thick. Add 1 tbs. Oil to yolks. Fold into whites. Add 7 tbs. Flour and mix well. Salt to taste. Prepare chiles by roasting them on a hot griddle. Wrap in damp cloth and let steam for 10 minutes. Peel, using long strokes. Remove stems and seeds, cut pepper lengthwise. Fill with cheese. Dip in egg batter, using a large spoon, then drop into hot oil or fat and fry brown on both sides. Serve with sauce if desired. SALSA POR CHILES RELLENOS (Sauce for Chiles Rellenos) 4 tbs. Fat 3 tbs. Flour 1 c. Tomato sauce dash of garlic about 1 c. Of water _ salt and pepper 1 small onion Melt fat, add onions, and cook. Add flour and brown slightly. Add tomato sauce and water. Add dash of garlic, salt and pepper to taste. Pour sauce over stuffed chiles when ready to serve. This sauce is delicious over fried eggs for breakfast, or eggs may be poached in this sauce. GUACAMOLE 1 large clove garlic 1 minced small onion 1 tsp. Fat % tsp. Pepper 2 green hot chiles that have been roasted and peeled. (See above recipe for roasting green chiles) Crush mixture with fork. Now add: 1 tbs. Lemon juice 1 tsp. Olive oil. Serve as a dip or with corn chips. CARNE DE PUERCO CON CHILE VERDE (Pork with Green Chile) 1 Ib. Pork steak (cut in 1 inch cubes) (which have been roasted and peeled, 3 tbs. Flour See above recipe.) 3 long green chiles % c. Whole tomatoes 2 large onions, minced Fry pork until slightly brown. Remove excessive fat. Add onions and cook. Add chiles which have been cut up. Add garlic and flour. Let flour brown slightly. Add tomatoes and enough water to make slightly thick gravy. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cover and let simmer for about 15 minutes. Serves about 4 or 5 persons. Page 598 RECIPES FROM THE WEST SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION 599 Mexican Heart STEw 1 Ib. Beef heart y 1% tsp. Salt } 2 tbs. Oil or shortening large onion, coarsely chopped % green pepper, cut in thin strips c. Sliced celery 4 c. All-purpose flour 1 1 1 can (10 ounce) Spanish Red 1 can (8 ounce) tomato sauce 1 4 tsp. Pepper Chili Sauce small can whole kernel corn 1 c. Water to 5 cups hot thick cornmeal mush Pp % c. Sliced ripe olives Cut meat into 1-inch cubes and shake in a paper bag with salt, flour, and pepper. Brown meat slightly in oil, using a heavy kettle with a tight fitting cover. Add onion, green pepper, and celery and continue sauteing until meat is browned. Add chili and tomato sauce and water. Cover and simmer 1% hours or until meat is almost tender. Add corn and olives and continue cooking 30 minutes. To serve, spoon meat and sauce over hot cornmeal mush. SMOTHERED CHICKEN, MEXICAN STYLE (Chicken in zippy tomato sauce — real south of the border flavor!) 1 ready-to-cook frying chicken (3 Ibs.) "2 tsp. Pepper cut into serving pieces "2 tsp. Thyme 1 tsp. Salt % c. Salad oil % tsp. Curry powder zippy (hot) tomato sauce % tsp. Chili powder Rub chicken pieces generously with combined seasonings. Brown over medium heat in salad oil. When nicely browned, spoon zippy tomato sauce over chicken. Cover and simmer for 35 to 45 minutes until chicken is tender. Mound chicken in center of warm platter. Surround with hot buttered corn, or with diced green pepper and pimientos. Makes 4 to 6 servings. Rinones (Kidneys) 1 lb. Kidney (beef) 1 small onion 1 med. Bell pepper (chopped) 1 c. Water 2 tbs. Flour salt and pepper to taste 5 tbs. Shortening Remove fat and skin from kidney and slice thin. Fry in hot shortening for a few minutes. Add onion and bell pepper. Cook until tender. Brown the flour and add water to make thin gravy. Season with salt and pepper. Cover and let simmer for about 15 minutes. Makes 4 servings. Butter Bean Cuitt 1 Ib. Ground beef 1 to 2 tsp. Chili powder 2 tbs. Salad oil 1 can (§ oz.) tomato sauce 1 c. Chopped onion 2 packages frozen large lima beans 1 Clove garlic, minced % c¢. Pitted ripe olives 1% tsp. Salt % tsp. Pepper 1 c. Water Lightly brown beef in salad oil over medium heat. Add onion and garlic and saute until golden. Scason with salt, pepper, and chili powder. Add tomato sauce and water to meat mixture. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes. Add defrosted beans and quartered ripe olives. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes longer. Makes 6 to 8 servings. Mexican Hasu 2 tbs. Shortening drained 1% c. Diced cooked potatoes 2 tbs. Chopped pimiento 1 can condensed tomato soup % tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Brown sugar % tsp. Chili powder tomato slices Lightly brown beef and onion in hot shortening in an ovenproof skillet. Add remaining ingredients and stir gently until mixed. Top with buttered rye cracker crumbs and tomato slices. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for about 30 minutes, Makes 6 servings. SpanisH Meat Batts 2 Ibs. Ground beef % tsp. Pepper 2 tsp. Salt (optional ) 1 medium green pepper, diced % c. Water 1 c. Crushed soda crackers 1% cans of tomatoes 2 well-beaten eggs % ¢. Catsup 1 c. Brown rice 1 c. Diced onion 1 tbs. Parsley flakes Blend ingredients and roll into 2-inch balls. Place in. Dripper. Pour tomato catsup and diced onion over all. Bake 1% hours at 350°. = Chokecherry Gelly Roxana Farnsworth Hase The road meandered by a murmuring brook, And there in beauty stood a chokecherry tree; I paused beneath to take a second look As fragrant petals floated down to me. I marked the tree as mine that very day, For well I knew the blooms would turn to fruit Which I with my two hands could bear away When ladened bough bent down toward the root. As summer waned I garnered in the prize And in my kitchen, tempting as could be, Stood chokecherry jelly, sparkling as the eyes Of those who came to share my delicacy. I hope in spring, if fortune smiles on me, To visit again this lovely chokecherry tree. 600 2 c. Ground cooked beef ¥% c. Chopped onion 1 tbs. Sage RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 1 can (12 oz.) whole kernel corn, buttered rye cracker crumbs 1 small can red diced pimientos The Bazaar Florence B. Dunford S the spring day wore on, Shari Medford felt more and more restless. She was finishing up her housecleaning which she had kept at steadily for many hours each day for the past three weeks. It's about that phone call, she thought, polishing the last breakfast dish, placing it in its neat pile in her sweet-smelling cupboards. Sister Heath didn't ask me for anything for the bazaar. Well, she did ask for a dollar to help out with the dinner, Shari reflected. If she had wanted me to donate toward the bazaar, she'd have said so. But would she? Shari, without a car, had found it difficult to attend Relief Society since the new meetinghouse was some miles distant from their home. But she wanted to be one of the sisters; Relief Society had always been her organization. She loved the Magazine; it seemed to her to contain almost everything a wife and mother needed in the way of inspiration and instruction. She loved the meetings, the organization itself. Most of all, she supposed, though she did not know them very well in this new ward, she wanted to, and did, love the sisters themselves. Sudden inspiration came to her. She dropped the towel, hurried across her living room to the hallway and telephone. "Jessie," she asked her neighbor down the street, "are you sending anything for the bazaar?" Jessie was sending tea towels; she'd made them and embroidered them herself. "Sometimes if I don't have time to make anything," she offered, "I just send a little money. Are you going to the dinner?" Shari said that both she and Will were going. "Maybe I can hunt up something around the house," she added. She was giving the dollar to help out with the food. She could add another dollar, if she wanted to help out with the bazaar. Shari had had a busy, hectic year. They'd been thinking 'of moving to another state. She had been trying to get the house and yard ready to sell, if Will finally decided to move. The past few months one after another of the children had been ill. "But I want to do my part, not just with money, but really do my part," she said aloud. As she made the beds, used the dust mop, her mind scurried over her belongings. For the past year she had been sorting and discarding, giving away. I won't keep anything we don't really use, she had thought, partly because of the moving, partly because she had decided that old, unused articles cluttered up a house, even cluttered up one's mind. Most of the items shown at the bazaar, she knew, would be new, though Jessie had said Marilyn Hart was having a booth of odds and ends, small things. Suddenly, as she worked, Shari thought of a luncheon cloth. It was small and colorful, with its pink roses on a snowy background. There weren't napkins with it; perhaps that was why she had never used it. But it would be just the thing for her contribution to the bazaar. Page 601 602 HARI hurried to her linen drawers in the big hallway. In the kitchen again she folded the luncheon cloth neatly in white tissue paper. Well, that ought to end it, she thought, meaning her conscience. And she turned her mind toward what to prepare for the children's and Will's lunch. But somehow it wasn't enough. A luncheon cloth without napkins was not much to give to her best-loved organization. If Marilyn Hart, who was new in town, was having a booth of knicknacks, she might feel badly with a skimpy display. Yet run through drawers and cupboards as she would, Shari could not find anything suitable for the odds-and-ends booth. Just the week before she had loaded a couple of peach baskets with articles after her housecleaning, for a friend with children and little money. "Old Mother Hubbard went to the cupboard,' Shari muttered. "There's not an extra dish or small picture or new handkerchief or scarf in this house." Will, who was one who liked to hold on to everything, usable or not, -would have grinned at her for that. Thinking about Will, sent Shari's mind in another direction. Each year for the past four or five years she had been on the Art Association's list. 'They held a "flea market," and an antique auction, organized after those in France. Shari made it a point annually to go through all her old keepsakes, her costume jewelry especially and contribute. Still, there might be something left. Everything was nice and neat after the housecleaning. 'The. Few RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 pieces she was not wearing currently were in a small cardboard box, Jeffy, who was ten, had painted for her at school. There was a tiny gold chain, it was too thin to be appreciated, a seashell, an Indian arrowhead, and a pale green marble. And Will's pin. Shari picked up the brooch. It was not very pretty, a half-circle of brilliants in a curved gold setting. The whole thing now was tarnished and dull. Yet just touching it made Shari's mind fly back, back to that day twelve years ago, their first wedding anniversary. OK KOK OK HARI was pregnant, and the construction company where Will was a bookkeeper had laid off its newest help. With Will out of work, Shari decided she wouldn't even mention the occasion. Still, she was always one for birthdays and special dates; besides she wanted to show Will how much she loved him and appreciated him. All day she had worked in the kitchen. She could laugh now and shed a few tears at the real ingenuity and courage it took to make a festive dinner with the cupboards bare. The instant Will saw the candlelit table he was all contrition. Shan had to wait dinner while he went downtown — and after closing hours, too — and found her a present. He had bought the brooch at a drugstore, he said. But he was pleased with it. Shari knew it had cost him his last dollar. In spite of this the pin had never suited her, although Shari loved it because Will had given it to her. Over the years, she supposed she had THE BAZAAR put it on and taken it off dozens of times. She made up her mind quickly. Will wouldn't mind. Long ago he'd forgotten about the pin. He had never remarked about her not wearing it. At the kitchen sink again, Shari polished it until it gleamed like new. And of course it is new, in a sense, Shari thought. She sighed, thinking now that her mind was at rest about doing her part for the bazaar. The brooch on its bed of pale blue cotton in the small white box looked very nice. 'Tonight, of course, though again she had not been asked, she would offer to help out after the dinner. 'They could always use an extra hand in the kitchen. But try as she would, her mind wouldn't be free or at rest. It kept going back to the pin, to the conditions under which Will had given it to her. To Will, himself. Finally, just before Will and the children came trooping in for lunch, Shari just had to take herself in hand. I've made up my mind; I won't change it. The pin is just the thing for the bazaar. I'll stop worrying about it. Yet she didn't, and she couldn't. The spot where the brooch had lain was like an emptiness in_ herself now. She felt guilty and worried. Had she sacrificed something big in order to do something small? Will was working long hours; it was income tax time. Still, he was going to the dinner with Shari. Jeffy had come home from school with swollen glands. In order to avert feelings, Shari had decided all three children were better off at home. 603 S Shari and Will came into the big hall off the foyer of the chapel, Shari gave her luncheon cloth to one of the sisters behind the counter. The small white box with the brooch in it, she gave to Marilyn Hart. "I hope this is all right," she said humbly. Although she had only tasted her soup at luncheon, and the plates of roast beef, whipped potatoes and brown gravy, and fruit salad, were sending out savory whiffs from the long tables, Shari's appetite had desetted her. In its place was a large cold lump in her stomach. Whenever she looked at Will she had to swallow and look away to hide her tears. Luckily for her, Will was the jovial, little-noticing kind. Also he had to get back to the office. He did not have time for consciencestricken wailing females. Shari felt grateful that he consented to watch the cake walk, listen to a young man sing and tell stories from the stage, while Shari helped out an hour in the kitchen. She did not even have time to go down to the bazaar. "Please get me some of the tea towels,' she told one of the sisters, giving her some money. With her stint in the kitchen behind her, and the tea towels under her arm, Shari followed Will through the lobby and outside to their car. As Shari leaned over to touch her lips to his cheek, there in the driveway of their home, before he went to the office, Will said, "Oh, I about forgot," though something in his gray eyes said he hadn't at all. (Continued on page 638) You Can Sew= Wl. Clas Jean R. Jennings OW are you with hems? Are you discriminating in the way you hem your clothes, or do you just turn up the edges and sew them down on all garments, one just the same as the next? The right hem, beautifully done, is imporant to any garment, if you wish to achieve a custom-made look. All the care expended on the rest of the dress will be useless unless the hem is well hung. Hems vary in width and finish, depending on the fabric, style, and purpose of the article being made. It is important to learn the different hems, how to make them, and where to use them. Putting in the hem is the last step to be done in making a dress or other garment. Be sure that the sxirt hangs evenly from the waistline and that all seams are smoothly pressed. If any part of the skirt is on the bias grain, it should be allowed to hang for a day or two before the hem is measured. This lets the cloth stretch naturally and avoids sag later. - If skirt seams are on the bias grain, it is wise to reinforce them with seam tape when they are sewed. This will keep them from stretching and sagging out of shape when worn. 'This precaution is especially important for back seams. When measuring the hem, it is wise to wear the type of foundation garment and shoes that you will later wear with the dress, since a variation in tightness or a change in the heel height will affect the skirt length. Page 604 Several types of pin and chalk markers are made for marking hems. With some of the chalk markers, it is possible to mark your own hemline. When your skirt is being marked, whether you do it yourself or someone does it for you, stand in a natural position with arms at sides and with feet parallel and close together. Keep the same position until the hem is completely marked. 'The fitter or marker should move around the hemline as it is being marked. Mark the line with pins or chalk every three or four inches. The following steps should be used in making all hems: 1. Turn up the hem on the line of the markings, matching center lines and seam lines on the hem to those on the garment. Baste % inch from the turning line, using 1-inch stitches. 2. Check the evenness and becomingness of the hemline by pinning the upper edge of the hem in place and trying on the garment. 3. Next, determine the depth of the hem according to the weight of the fabric and the style of the skirt. Dresses that are moderately flared and of medium weight look best with hems 2 or 3 inches deep. If the fabric is sheer and the skirt not very flared, a hem as deep as 4 inches is suitable; but hems wider than 2 inches are clumsy on heavy materials. The greater the circular flare in a skirt, the greater will be the fullness in the upper edge of the hem; therefore a hem of 1 to 1% inches is best on a very flared skirt. 4. Measure an even depth for the hem all around with a gauge or ruler. Cut off even, To ease out the fullness at the top on the hem, a row of machine stitching, placed % inch from the edge, YOU CAN SEW—VH. HEMS / Array HEM ON A CIRCULAR SKIRT A SEAM CLIPPED ALONG A PLEAT THAT WOULD FALL WITHIN THE HEM TURN PUT PR FCFPRAFREPRFRFSA A SLIP-STITCH HEM WITH STITCHES CONCEALED UNDERNEATH THE EDGE may be used, or it may be pressed out in tiny pleats instead of gathering. Match the upper edge of the hem to the garment at each seam and the center of each gore. 605 At this point press the hem with paper inserted between the garment and the hem. Shrink out as much fullness as possible. The most generally used hem finish for skirts and dresses is seambinding because of its lack of bulk. But this finish is not always the best, and in some cases ls actually unsatisfactory. One should never use rayon seam binding on cotton materials that are to be laundered. 'This type of tape will dissolve under the heat of an iron warm enough to iron the cotton. For hems in most cotton dresses that are not very flared, simply turn and stitch the edge of the hem and then slip-stitch it to the dress. When there is much flare in the skirt and a binding is needed to help work out some of the fullness in the hem, use a thin cotton bias fold tape around the top. For medium light-weight woolens, silks, rayons, and nylons, use rayon seam binding as a hem finish. Before applying the binding, be sure to shrink out the fullness in the top of the hem by pressing, by taking small tucks in the edge, or by using a row of machine basting to draw up the extra material. Be sure the tape lies perfectly flat against the garment. When skirts are very flared, a smoother hem finish is had by shaping or curving the seam tape before stitching it onto the hem. Simply press it on the board with a warm iron, curving it as you press and it will easily take the shape of the skirt edge. Stitch the seam binding along the top of the hem so that the raw edge is concealed. Pin in place at the seams and the center of each gore, and slip-stitch to the garment. To slip-stitch a hem in place, hold the hem back so that the under side of the turned edge stands slightly above the fold of the garment. Using a fine needle and single thread, catch a single yarn of the garment and a small stitch in the tape. Repeat every * inch. The long stitches or thread floats will fall underneath the tape and thus be concealed from the outside. There will be little chance of catching or breaking the line of hem stitching when the garment is worn or laundered. On tailored skirts and jackets of heavier material, the hem will show less from the outside, if its edge is bound as you bind a seam. 'The underneath side is then slip-stitched into position by the above method. All hems are more serviceable if they are stitched in place by see stitching that is concealed. Ae Gliza Brockbank Hales ee in Flower Growing | ei Brockbank Hales of Spanish Fork, Utah, is an eighty-nine year old garden hobbyist. From the first blossoms of snowdrops, crocuses, and daffodils until November frost, Mrs. Hales has continuous bloom in her large garden. She gives bouquets, slips, seeds, and cuttings to neighbors and friends. Have been made beautiful with "'starts"' from the Hales' flowers. Many gardens in all parts of Utah She exhibits her choice blossoms at fairs and flower shows and has won many awards for the excellence of her displays. In addition to her gardening hobby, Mrs. Hales makes lovely handicraft articles of many varieties. Her letter-writing hobby has brought comfort and joy to hundreds of friends and relatives who have been inspired by her faith and her buoyant philosophy of life. She has been a Relief Society worker in executive and teaching capacities for sixtyseven years, and is still an active and inspirational visiting teacher, attending all Relief Society meetings and visiting her district each month. She is the mother of eleven children, grandmother to twenty-eight, and greatgrandmother to twenty-four, 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 "Not to the Swift" CHAPTER 3 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Julie Markham and_her widowed mother live in Chicago, where Julie is studying music. She often sings for Church meetings and other occasions. As the end of her work at the music school approaches, Professor Craig Carlson, a member of the Church and one of the teachers, expresses his love for Julie, but her mother makes plans for Julie to obtain a scholarship in New York City. HE budding promise that was Julie's first year at college flowered into complete happiness Julie's last. She awoke each day with anticipation and joy. It was unbearable that the fall should slip by so swiftly, and that winter should be cradling Chicago so soon. The winds were stinging blasts of cold, but Craig insisted on driving her down into the city every day, so she escaped the walks, head bent against the blizzards, that came so frequently. Lake Michigan roared gray and unfriendly against the icy rocks and white beaches. Snug and warm inside Craig's car, Julie refused to believe that the harsh echo of the crashing waves seemed a distant suggestion of foreboding. Julie listened only to the rhythm of Craig's voice. They talked and talked, but never seemed quite able to finish saying all there was to say to each other. The Christmas season brought a flood of parties at school and church, but it also brought many singing engagements for both Craig and Julie that kept them busy. But they were able to go dancing Christmas Eve, and then later to follow the Christmas - lighted streets toward home. The snow fell lightly, and the sound of occasional chains on cars made soft, dull thuds in the streets. Cars, partially buried in snow, humped the streets as far as one cared to look. The burying and digging out of cars, and sometimes simply giving up until spring, were as familiar a part of Chicago as the Merchandise Mart or the Tribune Tower. The snow scraper had left a drift of snow in front of Julie's apartment building. Craig parked as near to itas he could. The falling snow had covered the dirty crusted drifts like white feathers. The snow seemed to stay white for such a short time here, but the snow on the campus had seemed different from the snow she knew in the city. Craig took her from the doorway of the car and lifted her across the snow to the sidewalk. And then, pethaps because it was Christmas Fve, he held her just a moment longer than he needed to, and leaned his cheek against her soft one for just a moment. Her hair was like a soft breath against his face as she slipped lightly to her feet. No word now in this Christmas night. Only their footsteps going upstairs, and Craig slipping into the apartment just long enough to place Julie's present under the Christmas tree. And there was a present he was putting under the tree for her mother. "Tomorrow," he whispered, and the door was shut and the night lock Page 607 on, and Julie was alone. Her mother had already put some gifts under the little silver tree. Julie quickly took hers out of the bottom drawer in her chest of drawers in the bathroom and piled them under the tree. It wasn't fair to look at the other presents too closely, not even Craig's, but it was hard to sleep after she was ready for bed. In fact, it was impossible, she assured herself. Then she lay down and fell asleep at once. "T thought you would never wake up." Her mother smiled at her from the kitchen doorway. "The cereal has been on as low as possible, but still it's nearly cooked away." "Oh, Mother, how could I on Christmas Day?" Julie dashed into the bathroom and washed her face again and again in cold water it was so wonderfully refreshing. She combed her hair and smiled at herself in the mirror. Even if she was dressed in a three-year-old white flannel nightgown that buttoned up to her chin, her hair was pretty. I'm being so silly because it's such a lovely morning. She grinned at herself and rushed out to put up her bed. - "What time is Craig coming for dinner?" Her mother was reading the morning paper in the armchair. "I told him dinner was at two, so I guess he won't come for hours. We can open the presents after he gets here later. I'm starving." "You'd better put a robe on; you'll catch cold." Her mother came to the kitchen door. Julie was spooning the sugar on her cereal. "Here's my old blue flannel one, dear." She laid it on the chair. "Julie, you don't even have on your slippers...." pee was perched on the stool she had used as a little girl to make her taller at the table. Her bare feet twincd around the rungs. She was looking happily at her mother, not hearing a word her mother said. The buzzer sounded, and Julie's mother released the front door. "Tt must be a delivery," she smiled at Julie. "Perhaps Craig left your present to the last minute." "No," Julie had begun to eat her cereal, "my present is under the tite," Julie's mother opened the door to Craig's voice in the hall. "I'm not too early?" "No, no, come in. Julie's not quite the early bird you are...." Julie slipped the blue flannel bathrobe around her. It was too big, and it was old, and there wasn't one single fastener or string or belt on the whole awful bathrobe. And a white flannel nightgown! And bare feet! Her toes curled in misery on the rungs of the stool, while Craig grinned at her from the doorway. "She's_ really blushing,' Craig laughed. "You know they say you're supposed to call on your girl early in the morning to make sure she's as beautiful before breakfast as she was the night before." Julie began to choke on her cereal. Craig patted her on her back. "Merry Christmas, Julie," and he kissed her on the forehead. "You're very lovely." Julie looked up quickly, but Craig wasn't teasing her now. 'Then he went back into the living room, and Julie slipped into her mother's bedroom to dress. She put on her red velvet jumper in keeping with Christmas and matched her lipstick to it. Craig was playing Christmas 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 "NOT TO THE SWIFT" carols on the piano in competition with a distant carillon pealing in the cold morning air. Craig made room for Julie on the piano bench and watched her profile while they sang duets. Julie's mother warmed some rolls and put honey on the kitchen table. Then they all had a second breakfast. "T can't possibly guess," Julie protested, placing Craig's present in her lap. She sat cross-legged on the floor in front of the little tree and handed out the presents. Her own lay about her on the floor. She opened Craig's last. "How beautiful," Julie exclaimed, lifting out the necklace with matching earrings. "They're much too nice," Julie's mother said in a worried voice. "I don't know that Julie should accept something as valuable as that." "Why not?" murmured Craig, but Julie had fastened the necklace around her throat and was twirling around the room admiring it. Julie's mother lapsed into silence, but the tiny frown wrinkles between her eyes deepened. HE letter concerning the scholarship for Julie arrived with the first early rains and the melting of the snow. Julie picked up the mail from the box in the hall. Almost as her key opened the tiny window and she saw the white envelope lying there, long and important looking, she knew what it was. She examined the New York return address for a moment and then carried the letter upstairs without opening it. She placed the letter on the piano and waited for her mother to come home. Perhaps she had been refused the scholarship. She wondered if she wished that she had. I must 609 know how I am feeling, she thought to herself. How slowly the time passed. Her mother should be home by now. 'The letter had become impersonal. Surely, it could have no vital bearing on her life. "Julie, it's come! You didn't even open it?" Her mother tossed her purse to the couch and snatched up the letter. In a second it was open, and Julie's mother was half crying and laughing all at once. Julie had the scholarship. She had won the golden opportunity that would lead to an important career. "Julie, Julie!" Her mother kissed her and then sank back on the couch. Of course she had known Julie deserved the recognition, but the competition was sharp, and sometimes somebody knew somebody or something like that. In real life the deserving one didn't always win out, but this time she had. Julie would have a secure future in a wonderful career. Mary wiped her eyes. Jule had gone into the kitchen and was getting dinner. Mary put the letter on the piano. The room was too cold. Julie hadn't seemed too elated. Was she worried about parting from Craig or her other young friends? Well, if Craig had any ambition, he could go to New York, too. It was a lot of nonsense the way Craig kept insisting that he was going back to teach at that University out West. Why, he made more money singing here with that quartette an evening a week than he could make teaching out there full time. What would Julie do in a little town like that? Her talent would be wasted completely. She would always regret it. Mary took a deep breath. But as far as she knew, Craig had never even asked Julie to go out West with him. Mary shook her head slowly. She was making mountains out of molehills. Girls fell in love many times. Julie was young. She would remind Julie of what Madame Heinrich had often said. When marriage came in the window, ambition and talent and the future of an artist had a way of vanishing. It had happened to Mary herself, hadn't it? Mary crossed to the bathroom and began washing her hands carefully. She did want Julie to be happy. Yes, above all, she wanted Julie to be happy. But couldn't Mary's more experienced hand guide the way? A! Dinner they lighted candles to celebrate. Julie seemed happy enough to Mary now. After dinner Mary suggested Julie might want to call some of her friends to tell them the good news. "Oh, not yet, Mother. Besides, I'm going to Mutual with Craig tonight. I'd rather tell him first, if you don't mind." "Of course not, darling, only such a wonderful thing as this doesn't happen to a young girl every day. Craig will be very happy for you, 'm sure." It was impossible for Julie's mother to keep the news to herself very long. The minute Craig entered the room, Mary hurried to show him the letter. Julie sat in her mother's bedroom and waited for her mother's happy voice to subside. She was quite ready to go, and, at last, she opened the door. Craig was still offering his congratulations when she hurried across the room. Julie kissed her mother's cheek, and they went silently down the stairs together. The rain was washing the city clean. The last of the dirty snow was swiftly disappearing. Green shoots struggled against dark basement windows. 'The city shone in the rain. Craig and Julie talked about the latest events at school and current ward activities. It wasn't until they were returning home that - the scholarship was mentioned again. "This has really been a big day for you, Julie," Craig said. He found a parking place in front of Julie's apartment. Julie nodded her head. She was afraid to try to talk. Craig didn't seem to mind at all that soon so many miles would separate them. "I guess I didn't use very good judgment, Julie. I bought you a present I thought I would save for a lovely spring night.... I mean, when everything was perfect I was going to give you this...." The rain tapped against the roof of the car and slid in glittering streaks down the street-lighted window. The small velvet box lay in Craig's hand. "Oh, Craig!" He opened the box and slipped the diamond on her finger. Julie felt it impossible to look up from the ring. Craig lifted her chin gently. "I'm going to keep it, Craig, forewer," "You won't regret missing New York? You're sure you want to be the wife of a music professor in a small college town? Bradley won't be like this. Are you sure you're really choosing the career you want?" "You're the career I want," Julie murmured. "I won't miss anything if I'm with you." Craig cradled her face in both his 610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 "NOT TO THE SWIFT" hands. In a moment they ducked their heads against the rain and ran for the apartment door. How quietly they climbed the stairs. The light fanned under the door of Julie's apartment. "Ts it all right to come in?" Craig called from the doorway. MAY was still up. She had set her hair for the night. She looked up into the radiant faces of Craig and Julie. Julie had not chosen the scholarship, then. How tired Mary felt. She kissed Julie and accepted Craig's kiss on the forehead graciously. 'There would be other times than tonight to try to talk sense to Julie. She had all of the spring. It would be such a waste to have Julie buried as a housewife in a little town. She would ask Julie to seek advice from someone like Professor Rossi or Madame Heinrich. Maybe they could make her see what she could not. "And we'll be married in the temple right after graduation, Mother...." "My family will be coming to see us get our degrees. We can all go 611 out West together." Craig was still holding Julie's hand. "We can make all the plans later," Mary said gently. "I know how happy and excited you both are, but it's getting late." Craig was at once apologetic. He and Julie said goodnight at the door. He ran down the steps two or three at a time. Someone up above opened a door at the noise and then shut it. He felt like singing something glorious at the top of his voice. He had been so worried about Julie's mother. He knew how much she had wanted Julie to be able to go to New York. He couldn't believe that Julie was really to be his. His family knew all about Julie from his letters, but wait until they met her. He thought of the happy letter he would write tonight. He would spend his life making Julie happy. They would have perfect happiness together. He was crazy; he was standing in the rain, and he hadn't even noticed. He must be in love, he laughed as he started his car for the ride home. (To be continued) > YJ Stull Remember Grace Barker Wilson I remember the aspen tree that stood To shade my mother's kitchen door. I remember the scent of the sweet pine wood Washed clean by a quick downpour. And barefoot errands were long delayed When our toes felt the soft mud ooze In the fresh rain pools that we stopped to wade, (We were far too rich for shoes! ) I remember the sweet, clear winter nights When the shadows fell long and deep; And the high stars winking their crystal lights, And Mother tucking me in to sleep. \\_FROM THE FIELD |Z — oo Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Blanche George MILLARD STAKE (UTAH), HOLDEN WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR -TEN CONSECUTIVE YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Ramona Kenney, President; LaNola Johnson; Anna Laura Shaw; Ada Bennett, Work Director Counselor; Louise Stevens; Almeda 'Turner; Margaret Jackson; Geneal Stevens; Jean Hofhines. Second row, seated, left to right: Lula McKee; Allie Hunter; Helen Stevens; Lilhan Wood; Delores Jones; Sarah Stringham; Hettie Bennett; Florence Stephenson; Martha Stevens. Third row, standing, left to right: Phyllis Bennett; Delma Bennett; Mabel Stevens; Beth Crosland; Vera Nixon; Estell Bennett; Bly Nixon; Ellen Stevens; Flossie Stephenson. The following sisters, who were not present when the picture was taken, are also included among the visiting teachers who achieved the one hundred per cent record: Irene Johnson, Neva Johnson, Algie Stephenson, Marjorie Stevens, Rosaline Stevens, Stella Stephenson, and LaRue Stevens. Blanche George is president of Millard Stake Relief Society. Page 612 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 613 Photograph submitted by Miriam W. Knapp HONOLULU STAKE (HAWAII) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC I'OR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 27, 1958 Front row, standing, left to right: Miriam K. Lien, organist; Lois Ohsick, First Counselor; Joy K. Baird, Secretary-Treasurer; Louise Kaanapu, Second Counselor; Miriam W. Knapp, President; Christie C. Robertson, chorister. Ninety-three singers, from eight wards, participated in this chorus. Ce eeaaaesal te ERE Photograph submitted by Celeste D. Millerberg MIDVALE STAKE (UTAIT), MIDVALE SECOND WARD HONORS RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS AT SOCIAL, March 17, 1958 Standing at the head of the table, left to right, Midvale Second Ward Relief Society officers: Martha Anderson, Secretary; Pearl Jenkins, First Counselor; 'Thelma Anderson, President; Bernice Warner, Second Counselor. Celeste D. Millerberg, President, Midvale Stake Relicf Socicty, reports: "Cclebrating nine years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching, teachers from twenty-five districts were honored at a delightful social on March 17, 1958. Supervisors are Dora Butterfield and Ida Jenkins." 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 Photograph submitted by June Shepherd MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 27, 1958 Seated in the front row, right section, left to right: Lillas Swensen, organist; Hazel Jacobson, pianist; Utahna Anthony, Second Counselor; June Shepard, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society; Faye Hansen, chorister. Sister Shepherd reports that this chorus also sang at the Stake Relief Society Convention, May 6, 1958. = MR LET Photograph submitted by Daisy R. Romney WESTERN STATES MISSION, COLORADO SPRINGS FIRST AND SECOND BRANCHES PARTICIPATE IN COLORADO SPRINGS DISTRICT FASHION SHOW, AT PUEBLO, COLORADO Left to right: Willow Byrd; Joyce McIntosh; Delia Nellesson; Elizabeth Ericksen; Suzi Scurr; Emmie Plexico; Karlene Litchfield; Grace Gardner, Colorado Springs District Relief Society President; Carol Snell, Colorado Springs Branch sewing teacher; Ina Thomas, District Work Director Counselor and district sewing chairman; Adele Isaacs; Marian Heward; Joyce Wasden; Bernadine Engelbrecht; Leatha Sisson; Ruth Hendricks. Children standing in center front, left to right: Joyce McIntosh; Ann Hendricks; Mary Ann Keime. Daisy R. Romney, President, Western States Mission, reports: " "Spring Styles for the Springs District', was the slogan used by the sisters entering the style show sponsored by the district work meeting department at Pueblo. There were ninety-one articles NOTES FROM THE FIELD 615 modeled, with sixty-two sisters and twenty-eight children modeling. One hundred sixteen articles were made. Other branches participating were: Pueblo (LeeOma Nielson, sewing teacher); Leadville (Frances Clements, sewing teacher); Rve (Mac Mead, sewing teacher); Canon City (Evelyn Braddy, sewing teacher). Two-hour sewing classes were held weekly from October to February in branches within a radius of 175 miles. Some sisters had never sewed before. Also displayed were most of the handwork, quilts, and articles made in the work mecting department during the season. Six welfare quilts were presented to Sister Daisy Romney, President, Western Statcs Mission Relief Society." Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTEENTH WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY PRESENTS PLAY "THE KEY IS TURNED" Seated, left to right, former presidents in order of service: Eliza C. Weaver; Sophia H. Nelson; Marguerite R. Burton; Pearl G. Williams; Chloe F. Summerill; Elda M. Nord; Ireta C. Evans. Present Thirteenth Ward Relief Society officers: Greta J. Wheelwright, Secretary; Elizabeth W. Woods, First Counselor; Maxine L. Galbraith, Second Counselor; Drucilla H. McFarland, social science class leader and author of the play presented by this group; Dot Lowder; Leota F. Burton; Barbara F. Oliver. Ogden Stake Relief Society Board members Laura G. Chambers and Afton P. McKell; Cleona W. Hedenstrom, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society. Back row, standing, members of the ward bishopric who represented the Prophet Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards as they appeared at the organization meeting of Relief Society March 17, 1842, and the present ward Relief Society President, left to nght: Jess L. Holmes, First Counselor; Wilham G. Galbraith, Bishop; Minnie C. Fronk, President, Thirteenth Ward Relief Society; Clyde V. Goodwin, Second Counselor in the bishopric. Sister Hedenstrom reports: "The annual March party proved to be a happy reunion for members past and present. Attending the luncheon and program were seven of the eight former presidents of this organization; seven members of the Ogden Stake Relief Society Board, four of whom were former presidents of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. Also present were the ward bishopric and many former members who accepted the special invitation for them to attend. This photograph shows some of the honored guests, together with the present officers, wearing pioncer costumes for their participation in the historical play "The Key Is Turned" written especially for the occasion by class leader Drucilla IH]. McFarland. 'The women characterize the charter members of the first Relief Society at its organization on March 17, 1842." 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 WALNUT CREEK STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 23, 1958 Elaine Smith, director, stands eighth from the right in the front row; Helen Finell, stake organist, and Shirley Moore, accompanist, are seated at the organ. This group furnished music for both sessions of stake conference, with sixty-three singers from six wards participating: Lafayette-Orinda, Martinez, Pittsburg, Pleasant Hill, Rodeo, and Walnut Creek Ward. Ellen R. Cook is president of Walnut Creek Stake Relief Society. RES Phetesraph-sulimidted "hy" Hath EB SOUTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), BRIGHAM SECOND WARD WORK MEETING, February 18, 1958 Standing at the right, left to right: Mae Balls, Stake Work Director Counselor; Camille Bennion, Stake Education Counselor; Edith E. Baddley, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; Bertha Jensen, President, Brigham Second Ward Relief Society; Emma Kimber, work meeting leader, Brigham Second Ward. Mildred Barber, work meeting leader, South Box Elder Stake, is seated directly in front of the stake presidency. Sister Baddley reports: '"Work meeting at the Second Ward is always a busy one, with five or six activities going on simultaneously. 'Two sewing machines are always in use doing welfare sewing, or making aprons, children's clothes, or other bazaar items. Another group will be embroidering pillowcases, luncheon sets, dish towels, etc.; and others might be making copper planters, wall pictures, trays, or other metal articles; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 617 crocheting, tatting, or learning Swedish embroidery might be taking the time of others. At the end of each work meeting a fine quilt is usually completed, or perhaps a textilepainted baby quilt. The socicty's silverware also might have received a good polishing. A hot luncheon is served at noon by a special committec, and during this period poetry is read from The Relief Society Magazine. Food recipes arc exchanged, and household hints are given. Those who have birthdays during the week are given special recognition by all singing "Happy Birthday." During the year cach sister has the opportunity of displaying her hobbies on work day. A well-preparcd lesson is alw ays given by the ward work mecting leader, often accompanied by a demonstration to bring out interesting points in the lesson." Photograph submitted by Melba H. Tullis ASHLEY STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS FOR FIFTY YEARS OF SERVICE AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, April 29, 1958 Left to right: Susanna Wardle; Belle B. Perry, First Counselor, Ashley Stake Relief Society; Sarah A. Smith Melba H. Tullis, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports: "These two sisters were honored at a visiting teachers convention and party held April 29, 1958, for having achieved the outstanding record of fifty years as visiting teachers. Sister Smith, seventy-nine years of age, is still an active visiting teacher. Early modes of travel for both of these visiting teachers in the performance of their duties included riding horseback, traveling in buggies and wagons, and walking many miles along muddy roads pushing their baby carriages. "The eight wards of the stake were also presented potted chrysanthemums which were dressed in "spring bonnets." They were in appreciation of the achievement of the wards in visiting teaching, which incrcased from a stake average of five visits per family in 1946 to a stake average of twelve visits per family in 1956 and 1957 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 Photograph submitted by Helen B. Pitcher CALGARY STAKE (CANADA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 30, 1958 Front row, seated, left to right: Annetta McKinlay, stake organist; Priscilla Lee, stake chorister; Naida Walton, Stake Work Director Counselor; Helen B. Pitcher, Stake President; Shirley Rogers, Secretary. These Singing Mothers presented two numbers: 'Forth in Thy Name, O Lord, I Go," and "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy." Photograph submitted by Emily S. Romish WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND FOR RELIEF SOCIETY UNION MEETING Idalia Huff, the chorister, is seated in the front row at the right of the piano; organist Sarah Stolworthy is seated at the keyboard of the piano. Not in the picture, Lola Schiess, stake organist, who accompanied the chorus on the organ. This chorus presented the music for the stake quarterly conference and also for Relief Society union meeting in May, which featured a handwork display and a specially arranged program honoring the visiting teachers. Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619 Photograph submitted by Louise Johansen NORTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS DEMONSTRATION FOR "FAMILY HOUR" AT ANNUAL "STAKE DAY," May 13, 1958 Left to right: Joyce Broderick, Stake Work Director Counselor; LaRue Beck and Morae Wilkey, members of the Fourth Ward Relief Society who prepared the 'Story Princess' demonstration; Elizabeth Anderson, stake work meeting leader; Susan Beck as the "Story Princess." Louise Johansen, President, North Sanpete Stake Relief Socicty, reports that this "Stake Day" was an enjoyable occasion and "demonstrated and encouraged the 'Family Hour.' One of the beautiful tables was this idea for a birthday party, carrying out the theme of a 'Story Princess.' Nellie McAllister, stake literature class leader, directed a dramatization of 'Shakespeare in Our Lives,' prepared by Alberta H. Chnistensen of the General Board of Relief Society. The large congregation was then directed into the recreation hall, where eight tables were beautifully decorated with ideas for a home evening or 'Family Hour.' Each person was given a mimeographed pamphlet which had a flower on it to match the table they should go to, so that they were divided up into eight groups. After they had been at one table for five minutes, a bell would ring, and they would move on to the next. Ideas presented were a wedding breakfast, a birthday party, recreation, creative fun, camping, patio activity, a film of a family hour, and a refreshment table. Joyce Broderick, Stake Work Director Counselor, and Elizabeth Anderson, stake work meeting leader, were in charge, with committees from all the wards participating." LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 11—The Worth of Souls Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 15, 16, and 18) For Tuesday, December 2, 1958 Objective: (D & C 18:10). Sections 15 and 16 HE first two revelations for study in this lesson are identical, but they were given to different persons. The message thus given was of great importance to those two sons of Peter Whitmer, into whose home the Prophet Joseph Smith, Emma, his wife, and Oliver Cowdery were received in June 1829. (See D. H. C. I:48, 49.) John and Peter Whitmer, Jr., to whom Sections 15 and 16 were given, and especially the former, became zealous friends of Joseph Smith and assistants in the work. It was their desire to learn from the Lord what was of most worth to them in life. (SeeD&C 16:4.) 'The answer of the Lord was definite and clear: And now, behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them Page 620 "Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God" in the kingdom of my Father. Amen (D & C 15:6). The Church had not been formally organized at this time, but 'The Book of Mormon was translated and, within a year, it was to be printed that it might become in the beginning of this dispensation an effective missionary tool in bringing people to repentance. Notwithstanding the fact that the Whitmer brothers were given the charge to declare repentance, they would be under the same commandment given to Hyrum Smith, that a formal call to the ministry was necessaty before they could preach. (See D & C 11:15.) It seems evident from the historical context in which Sections 15 and 16 are given, that this call to preach repentance means preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ in calling people to repentance and not just including the LESSON DEPARTMENT principle of repentance as a part of the gospel. A Umique Missionary System With these ideas in mind, we are shown how the Lord was preparing men to assist in what later has come to be one of the most unusual missionary systems in the world. The missionary work of the Church has been carried on regardless of the cost involved. Sacrifices of many kinds have been made by loyal, devoted men and women of this Church. 'The missionary system has demanded great sacrifices. The expenditure of "funds by the missionaries, their families, and the Church has been in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Many missionaries have given their lives, whereas others have shortened their lives, through exposure, hardship, and disease. The loving service of the wives and mothers of these missionaries has been shown through the decades since this system was inaugurated. In many instances they have taken upon themselves the added responsibility of additional work in the home and on the farm. Widows have, in many cases, provided for their missionary sons and daughters. Added to this sacrifice is the separation of loved ones from their homes. All of these contributions emphasize the service rendered by a devoted people to a divine charge. The results of this service to the Church and to the missionary system have been great. 'The building up of the kingdom of God has been furthered as hundreds of thousands from many nations have been brought into the Church. 'The contribution of these converts in service 621 and material means has compensated the Church many times over, for this contribution has increased the missionary effort, the building of temples, chapels, and, in general, the entire work of building up Zion. At the same time these converts have, in many instances, found new freedoms, opportunities to rear their posterity under conditions more favorable to living the Gospel Plan. Into the communities of the saints, a greater understanding of people from all parts of the world is brought by the returning missionaries. An increased understanding and respect for mankind has developed among the saints by this unique system. The individual benefits to the missionaries in this undertaking have been manifold. Impetus to greater educational aims, the desire to give further service to mankind, and increased abilities in personal relationships, together with other personal benefits, have been realized. The giving of self and loved ones to a cause which has as its basis a divine mandate to preach repentance and to gather of Israel from the four quarters of the earth, is done because of a personal conviction that the gospel is true. In 1835, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared his deep respect and love for mankind in the following statement: The servants of God will not have gone over the nations of the Gentiles, with a warning voice, until the destroying angel will commence to waste the inhabitants of the earth, and as the prophet hath said. "Tt shall be a vexation to hear the report." I speak thus because I feel for my fellow men; I do it in the name of the Lord, being moved upon by the Holy Spint. Oh, that I could snatch them from the vortex of misery, into which I behold them plunging themselves, by their sins; that I might be enabled by the warning voice, to be an instrument of bringing them to unfeigned repentance, that they might have faith to stand in the evil day! (D. H. CxIl:269)). Section 18—The Worth of Souls In laying the foundation of the Lord's work in the last days, with stress upon the teaching of the gospel, the Lord gave a revelation, in June 1829, addressed to Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, and David Whitmer. (See D & C 18.) Especially pertinent to the objective of this lesson are verses 10-16 of this revelation: Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; For, behold, the Lord your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! Wherefore, you are called to cry repentance unto this people. And if it so be that you should labor all your days in crying repentance unto this people, and bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father! And now, if your joy will be great with one soul that you have brought unto me into the kingdom of my Father, how great will be your joy if you should bring many souls unto me! (D & C 18:10-16). Have you ever considered that you are of great worth in the sight of God? We are confronted directly with the fact that our Redeemer Jesus Christ suffered death of body, and in doing so he suffered "... The pain of all men..." (D&C 18:11). Here we are brought to the realization that our Elder Brother underwent severe pain in order that we "... Might repent and come unto him" (D & C 18:11). This is not | the first time that the Lord has made known that by his suffering the resurrection is brought to pass and eventually a judgment. Jacob, The Book of Mormon prophet, said: And he cometh into the world that he may save all men if they will hearken unto his voice; for behold, he suffereth the pains of all men, yea, the pains of every living creature, both men, women, and children, who belong to the family of Adam. And he suffereth this that the resurrection might pass upon all men, that all might stand before him at the great and judgment day (2 Nephi 9:21-22). The resurrection of the body saves men from "... Devil, and death, and hell..." (2 Nephig:19). In order that men might be saved in the celestial kingdom, they must comply with the principles and ordinances of the gospel. 'This gives to them a release from the bondage of sin and brings them into spiritual life with God. (See D & C 23, 24.) If they do not repent, then they receive a lesser portion of the salvation which they have earned by their obedience to terrestrial or telestial laws. In other words, men must be obedient to the gospel commandments, which are made efficacious for men through the suffering and death of the Savior. Expressed in 622 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT 623 Otto Done THE PETER WHITMER FARM It was to a home on this property that the Prophet Joseph Smith, Emma his wife, and Oliver Cowdery were received in June 1829. (See D & C 1:48, 49.) scripture this principle is that Jesus "... Bringeth about means unto men that they may have faith unto repentance" (Alma 34:15). We are of great worth in the sight of God as shown by the great suffering of Jesus in making the atonement for us. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth! (D & C 18:12-13). Why the Lord's Joy Is Great One of the reasons for the "worth of souls in the sight of God" is the fact that men and women are spirit sons and daughters of God. It is not very difficult for a Latter-day Saint to understand the soul's worth when he remembers this parentchild relationship. God is perfect. His love is divine and, therefore, it is greater than that of any human being. It has been said that mother love comes nearest to the divine of any love which is known to man. Great as this love is, God's love ls infinitely greater and more constant. John the apostle set forth the fact: For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life (John 3:16). Jesus also loved men, his spirit brothers and sisters, with such a perfect love that he willingly did his Father's bidding and suffered death for them. That soul which repents and follows the path of righteousness finds in his own heart a love for the Father and the Son that helps him to draw closer to them in appreciation for their love. It is in this way that "joy" of the Lord is great. The soul that repents adds to the Lord's glory in that eternal life is made possible for the obedient. (See Moses 1:39.) 624 Joy by Service Man as an authorized servant of the Lord is commanded "... To cry repentance unto this people" (D & C 18:14), and if one's entire life is spent in this work, and he brings but one person unto the Lord, how great will be his joy with him in God's kingdom. If, however, there are many souls brought to repentance, his joy will be even greater. (See D & C 18:15-16.) The Motivation of Missionary Work These thoughts bring to our attention the need for a missionary system based upon a sincere love for man. 'The real motivation in this work is the love for the souls of men. 'There will grow in man such a love, if man will allow the spirit of the Lord to develop that sentiment. When the missionary is prompted by love for his fellow men, all of his energies are directed to the missionary work. Then he realizes the joy in bringing only one soul unto him, while greater joy comes in the many who are brought unto the Lord. One of the miracles of missionary work is the mighty change which is wrought in the hearts of the missionaries as a result of the zeal they develop in this work. Consistent with what has _preceded in this meaningful revelation, the Lord makes his will known "And if you have not faith, hope, and charity, you can do nothing" (D&C 18:19). Missionaries are not to have the spirit of contention which is of the devil. (See 3 Nephi 11:29, 30.) 'They are to oppose all evil, however. (See D & C 18:20.) The necessity of taking upon oneRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 self the name of Christ by being baptized and enduring to the end is clearly made known. (See D & C 18:22.) There is no other way that one can be saved in the kingdom of the Father. (See D & C 18:23-25.) The Calling of the Twelve In this same revelation, it is stated that there are to be Twelve Apostles, whose calling is to "... Declare my gospel, both unto Gentile and unto Jew" (D & C 18:26). These brethren are to receive their appointment because they sincerely desire to take upon them the name of the Lord. (See D & C 18:26-28.) Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer were called to search out the Twelve who are to be known by "... Their desires and their works..." (D & C 18:37-38. See also Lesson 10.) In fulfillment of this revelation, the Prophet later said that the Lord had revealed that the Three Witnesses were to select the 'Twelve. (As to why Martin Harris may not have been included in Section 18, see footnote D. H. C. Il:186:188.) The duties of the Twelve, as given in Section 18, are to ordain men to Priesthood offices, declare the gospel, baptize, and to testify of the truth as revealed. (See D & C 18: 31-36.) In concluding Section 18, dealing with the worth of the human soul and the calling of the 'Twelve, it is declared that a marvelous work will be performed by the Lord through his servants in this dispensation ",.. Unto the convincing of many of their sins, that they may come unto repentance, and that they may come unto the kingdom of my Father" (D & C 18:44). LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions for Discussion 1. Refer to Section 6:14-18, 22-24, as an example of how the Lord gave Oliver Cowdery a testimony of the work which Joseph Smith was to perform. How do verses 3 of Section 15 and 16 fit into this same pattern? 2. In what way do Sections 15 and 16 give one a better understanding of the importance of missionary work? 3. From the first three verses of Section 18 answer this question: If a_person has a testimony of the gospel, what should be expected of him? 625 4. Why do you believe our missionary system is unique? 5. Give examples of men in the scriptures who have been great missionaries. Name some in our own dispensation. What reasons may be given for the great work performed by these missionaries? 6. A religious leader not of the Church said that the Latter-day Saint people have "an abounding sense of the dignity and importance of man." How would you justify this belief? 7. Discuss: The Twelve Apostles were to be known by their desires and their works. Uisiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 11—"... | Will Bless All Those Who Labor in My Vineyard With a Mighty Blessing..." (D. & C. 21:9). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, December 2, 1958 Objective: To show how we can labor in the Lord's vineyard and qualify for a mighty blessing. ORKING in the Lord's vineyard is one of life's choice experiences. This work brings rich blessings both to those who do the work and to those who benefit by the labor. 'The promise contained in this message in The Doctrine and Covenants (21:9) emphasizes the fact that a mighty blessing comes to those who perform the work. To qualify for these blessings it is important that we understand what the Lord means when he refers to laboring in his vineyard, and what blessings may be expected from this promise. The term Jabor in the sense given in the quotation signifies action. It means efficient expenditure of time and energy in useful service for others. When we labor we do not spend our time in passive well-wishing. We back up our well-wishing with well-doing. We substitute concrete deeds for good intentions. Jesus and his apostles repeatedly emphasized the fact that the gospel is one of work and service. To gain blessings, we must be "... Doers of the word, and not hearers only..." (James 1:22). The Lord's vineyard is defined as a field of "spiritual endeavor." When we are actively engaged in selfless service to others, we are helping to build the Lord's kingdom on earth and, as such, are working in life's most important spiritual endeavor. We can labor in the Lord's vineyard in various ways. One way is to accept willingly and humbly any calling requested of us in the Church. Church work, fundamentally, involves service to others. It is one of the most direct ways of laboring in the Lord's vineyard. However, there are many other ways not directly connected with Church assignments, in which one can perform this service. One of the most blessed of these is that unselfish human service which springs from the heart and consists of doing all we can to help ease others' burdens and to try and bring happiness into their lives. 'This labor consists in following the admonition of James, "... To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction..." (James 1:27). It involves giving willingly and freely of ourselves without any thought of reward, honor, or glory. James Russell Lowell beautifully expressed this thought in his "Vision of Sir Launfal," as follows: Not what we give, but what we share, For the gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself, with his alms feeds three, Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me. One of the great truths associated with service performed for others is that enduring and richly satisfying blessings are showered upon the givers. A prominent church man tells of the occasion when he was bedfast for several weeks. During this period a busy friend, active in business and civic affairs, visited him regularly once each week and spent an hour reading to him from an inspirational book. These friendly visits gave the man who was ill something concrete and uplifting to look forward to, and did much to raise his spirits and to help restore him more quickly to full health. The bedridden friend never forgot those kind acts. Years later, when he was again expressing his apprecia- - tion for them, the visitor remarked that he was the one who had been really blessed. He said: At that time I was going through a particularly trying period in my business. The book which I read to you gave much needed repose and refreshment to my soul. When I returned to my business, after those visits, I was able to think more clearly, and to approach my work with renewed vigor. Problems seemed to melt away and I felt an inner sense of contentment and happiness which sustained me through the week. I was the one who was truly blessed. To bless, according to one definition, means to make happy, to guard, keep, and protect. One of the Lord's mighty blessings then means to bestow great and lasting happiness. It means that the Lord will encircle us with his secure, protecting care. He will grant us contentment and peace of mind. This mighty blessing is the inevitable reward of those who hearken to the Savior's teachings and who do his will by losing themselves in the service of others. 'The Savior has said: "... He who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward..." (D C 59:23). What a choice reward it is to have the true, soul-satisfying happiness which comes when we diligently and wholeheartedly labor in the Lord's vineyard. 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 Work I leeting— Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 3—Managerial Responsibilities of the Homemaker Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, December 9, 1958 Objective: E often hear the statement: "A man can work from sun to sun, but a woman's work is never done." The greatest theatrical role played by the greatest theatrical actress, in the greatest theatrical play, cannot compare in importance to the role played by the homemaker who has as her most valued goal happiness for every member of her family. The responsibilities she must assume are many and varied. Following are some of the important ones: 1. Guiding the Family Living Toward a Proper Development of Family Life. From infancy children begin to form attitudes and concepts. If they are to grow to maturity with a wholesome attitude toward family life they should be exposed to rich, rewarding experiences within their own family circle to make them know life is good. The we, the ours, the us feeling will become so much a part of their everyday living that pride in family and joy in relationship will ever be present. 2. Guiding Toward Wholesome and Satisfying Personal Relationships. Every homemaker should recognize that no two individuals are exactly alike, thus her role is a complicated one. She should understand each member of her family as To point out some of the major responsibilities in managing a home. A distinct, unique individual, and gain the insight necessary to understand why Mary and Ruth react so differently to the same sitation. Individual needs should be recognized and met, if each member of the family is to grow physically, mentally, spiritually and emotionally to his full stature. 3. Managing Finances. Family finance is often given as the most difficult problem in homemaking. People who cannot live within their incomes are, in general, poor managers. Money, like time and talent, can be wasted. Money has to be managed intelligently or one will be on the losing side. Being on the losing side in money management is a serious matter. 'Training in how to handle money and an honest attitude are the first prerequisites to wise money management. Happy married people are successful homemakers because they face their problems and arrive at a working solution of them. 'The particular mechanical details are not too important. The theory that matters is that all members of the family work out a plan that is best for all. 4. Planning and Guiding: a. Proper use of time and energy. 'Time and energy are so closely related in home living that Page 627 the management and use of either one affects the other. 'Time is shared alike by all individuals. 'Twenty-four new, unused hours are given to each one of us to use as we will each day. Human energy, although possessed by everyone, depends on one's physical heritage and one's mental and physical health. B. Purchase of equipment and furnishings. Furnishings and equipment are known as durable goods and last over a period of years. 'To be able to purchase wisely with the amount of money available is a real challenge to the homemaker. C. Nutritious meals and_suitable clothing. Since an entire lesson will be devoted to each of these subjects later in the year, we will recognize only these two functions as important to consider in home management. D. Maintaining health of family members. Health is wealth in every home. Preventative measures are more valuable than curative measures. Mental as well as physical health is imperative to the well being of each family member. An awareness of all that contributes to good health is an important phase of management. E. Guiding the educational, social, and spiritual development of family members. In this phase of management, the homemaker helps in the making of long-time goals, and through the process of family living helps each member of the family come closer to his ideal. F. Participation in community activities. No family can or would want to live in a glass house—untouched by outside influences. Since every experience one has makes an impression for either good or bad in one's life, intelligent homemakers do what they can to make the environment outside the home the best they possibly can. We know that a healthy interest and participation in outside activities make for a more contented and happy homemaker. Discussion Thoughts 1. Why is happiness of family members the most valued goal of a homemaker? 2. What are the first prerequisites of wise money management? <P Daughter s Sirst Wedding Anniversary Dorothy J. Roberts The mind learns to accept "farewell,'"' But the heart can never say goodbye. The mind will fold her wedding veil And lay her left belongings by, Then go again into the world Marked with change and emptiness; The swift response a little dulled; The heights, the depths, a measure less. The mind moves over sand and sea, But the heart still travels to and fro Between the dawn of her first cry And the day it watched her go. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 2) ona — racial Literature— Meet the New World Lesson 3—Roger Williams and the Puritan Theocracy Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James B. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 10-11; 45-49) For Tuesday, December 16, 1958 Objective: To realize that our present-day broad freedoms were first won by Roger Williams as he successfully resisted ecclesiastical controls of conscience. OGER Williams deserves our study and respect, not because he is a great literary man, but because he is a great man. In spite of his style of writing, which is often cramped, diffuse, unproportioned, and repetitive, his qualities of manliness and greatness shine through to us: his highly creative intelligence, his moral will and courage, and his intense and lofty religious nature. Article One in the Bill of Rights of the Constitution of the United States begins, "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...." If Roger Williams could not be present to choose these words, the tune, at least, is his. And he sang it first on American shores, so memorably, that its cadence continues still. Thus his contribution to the United States heritage is central and permanent. While the Puritans are justly called, "The people of the Book," with equal justice Roger Williams might be called "the man of the Book." None of the Puritan fathers lived closer to the Bible than he. His constant striving to find the "invisible church" as he knew it from his own readings in the Bible, made him an idealist almost too intense for this world. No more "of the world" than he was at home "in the world," he went far beyond both Puritan and Pilgrim in attempting to "purify" them into becoming the true Bible Commonwealth. But instead of sharing his inward vision, they forced him to flee into bleak winter wilderness where for fourteen weeks he "knew not what bread or bed were." Had not friendly Indians taken him in, quite probably he would have perished. Because he was truer to certain basic phases of the Protestant Reformation than were the empowered leaders of the wilderness Zion, he was considered a dangerous threat to the very tradition which produced him. Yet he loved that tradition so dearly that he fought its weaknesses, and in so doing, became one of its greatest contributors to America's heritage. Assuming that the easiest, most effective way to know Roger Williams is simply to point out what he was for and what he was against, we should first review the events of his life as the germinal background from whence his beliefs came. Williams' Life Born to a wealthy, middle-class merchant family at some unknown Page 629 Paul's Photos ROGER WILLIAMS date near the death of Queen Elizabeth in 1603, young Roger studied for the law at Cambridge, where he learned shorthand and became the protege of Sir Edward Coke, one of England's greatest political theorists who lived by his own belief, "Liberty is such a fellow that he will have no sovereign." But instead of law, Roger took orders in the Anglican Church. While serving as household chaplain on the Essex estate of a wealthy Puntan, he developed Separatist sympathies, married a serving girl and, in 1631, he and his wife landed in Boston as part of ""The Great Migration." Refusing an offer to preach in Boston's most powerful pulpit because the congregation were still Puritans who had not severed their allegiance to the mother-church, Williams preached briefly at both Salem and Plymouth. In both offices his extreme views caused disaffection, and, in 1635, he was banished. After living with the Indians that he might learn their language and thus convert them to Christianity, he bought land from them and, in 1636, settled in the new community of Rhode Island which became a literal "Providence" to all peoples who had suffered from racial, political, or religious persecution. In 1639, he founded the first Baptist church in America, but, soon thereafter, became a Seeker, one who believes in Christ but not in any sect; indeed Williams strongly anticipated (but in vain) the establishment of a new church, since he believed the only true churchmodel which he could follow had been taken from the earth at Christ's death. Because he feared not the claims of the Indians, but the landgreed of other colonists, he made trips to London, in 1644 and again in 1651-54, to obtain a_ charter authorizing full self-government for Rhode Island Plantation from the English Puritans then controlling England. They were brothers of the New England group who had banished him and who showed their contempt for his experiment by referring to Rhode Island as "the Lord's debris." Puritan Friends An imaginative, sympathetic, vibrant and warm-hearted man, it is not surprising to learn that throughout Williams' life he enjoyed the gift of friendship. Even though Governor John Winthrop banished him, both he and other Puritan leaders were his devoted friends until death. While in England he became friends - with the leading men of the day: Oliver Cromwell and John Milton. 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT Mission to England The motto of his life might well have been, "God is love — unforced — toward man and God." Ever the champion of his suffering fellows, Williams arrived in London in deep winter, with the supply of coal from Newcastle temporarily cut off. So severe was the shivering among the poorer classes that they were rioting in the streets. Immediately Williams' initiative and benevolence caused him to contact Parliament for permission to ease suffering by bringing firewood to the capital city, a task which kept him occupied during much of his stay. For several months the Puritan ministers had been meeting in London in the Westminster Assembly in an attempt to define just what type of church they should erect to replace the Anglican Church whose Archbishop and King they were to behead. In great heat, the Presbyterians and Congregationalists bickered about how the new "official" church was to be governed. Made fearless by his own definition of religious truth, Williams at once made use of a printing press (a luxury denied him in New England) and addressed to the Assembly of Divines his famous 'Twelve Questions. He minced no words as he forced the Divines to question — their sources of authority, and indeed just how "pure" their own religious purifying really was. During Williams' first London trip, he saw two of his books through the press: A Key to the Language of America (a sympathetic study of the Indians and _ their culture) and The Bloudy Tenent, of Persecution for the Cause of Conscience, Discussed in a Conference 631 Between Truth and Pcace. After his charges were answercd in 1647 by Mr. John Cotton, probably the strongest spiritual force among firstgeneration New England divines, Roger Williams replhed im a book printed in London during his second trip: The Bloudy Tenent Yet More Bloudy; by Mr. Cotton's Endeavour to Wash It White in the Bloud of the Lamb. 'Thus he was ever the fighter for truth as he saw it. His weapons: the sword of the spirit and the pen. Evidence of his skill at wielding these survive; unfortunately, his sermons do not. Last Years in Rhode Island His declining years were spent in Rhode Island where, for a time, he served as "president," a rather powerless office, and as elder statesman who spoke often on matters of community concern but was not always fully heeded. In 1672, lie conducted a series of public debates with the firebrand Quakers, who in that day preached with dangerous fervor their newly founded religion of inner light received directly from God. Because in their zeal they claimed religiously to "have all the answers,' and to possess all truth, Williams feared them even more than the righteous persecutions of the theocracy. Basic to this struggle, as it had been throughout his life, was his profound conviction that such militant self-righteousness as theirs must be opposed, since it is the usual preliminary quality preceding * 'persecution for conscience's sake." It is easy for modern critics to see this attack on the Quakers (just as the Puritan leaders had done) as a senile lapse from his carlier high principles; for those who know his 632 heart more intimately, it is seen as a final clinching of his inward integrity and his ability still to act on his convictions. His last years were concerned mostly with Providence, once the incarnation of his dream, now at prolonged hagglings with Connecticut over the Pequot Lands lying between them, and mutually claimed. In addition, the inhabitants of Providence to whom he personally had given all their lands became concerned about how much their share of the Commons would be, once they divided it among themselves. Addressing them as "Loving Friends and Neighbors," Williams wrote a letter, in 1662, pleading that they be content with their present holdings and that they leave some land in Providence forever unappropriated, to be available whenever needed for those in the future who might be as homeless and persecuted as they once were: "after you have got over the black brook of some soul-bondage yourselves, tear not down the bridge after you, by leaving no small pittance for distressed souls that may come after you." When the CromwellCommonwealth fell and Charles II was restored to the throne in 1660, the dreams of many devout Puritans on both sides of the Atlantic were squelched. Already a Seeker, Williams could not be hurt in his treligious beliefs; however, he was hurt as he saw hard-working, prosperous New Englanders substituting values of this world for other worldly cares. Loss of religious freedom was not all this never-satisfied dreamer had to fear for his fellows, for, in 1664, he wrote words of sad wisdom, a role often played by great old men: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 When we that have been the eldest and are rotting, a generation will act, I fear, far unlike the first Winthrops and their Models of Christian Charity: I fear that the common trinity of the world — Profit, Preferment, Pleasure — will be here the tria omnia; that Prelacy and Popery too will in this wilderness predominate; and that God Land will be as great a God with us English as God Gold was with Spaniards. His greatest letter, an expanded figure of speech written simply and powerfully, was written to the people of Providence, in 1655, to reassure them that he was not an anarchist, or one who believes that man should be controlled in no phase of his life. Likening a community to a ship, he defended the right of the captain of the vessel to discipline anyone who refuses to pay passage or to do his share; who mutinies or who refuses to aid in mutual defense; who maintains that "there ought to be no commanders or officers, because all are equal in Christ." While thus completely upholding established civil orders as long as they do not infringe on each person's right to believe as he pleases, even to believe not at all, Williams states the major premise of his life, that:. All the liberty of conscience that ever I pleaded for turns upon these two hinges — that none of the Papists, Protestants, Jews, or Turks be forced to come to the ship's prayers or worship, nor compelled from their own particular prayers or worship, if they practice any. Not many years before Roger Willams' death, he wrote John Winthrop, Jr. A passage which represents Williams fairly, both in style and in content, and thus brings his essential spirit directly to our hearts. The first sentence contains the simplicity of greatness which character- LESSON DEPARTMENT izes the Puritan style at its best (would that such occurred in Williams' writings more often): Your candle and mine draws towards its end. The Lord graciously help us to shine in light and love universally, to all that fear His name, without that monopolv of the affection to such of our own persuasion only... I shall now only subscribe myself, Your unworthy friend, R. Williams. Much Agreement With Puritans Almost to a hair Williams agreed with his fellow Puritans in their central beliefs: for him as for them, being saved in Christ was all that really mattered. He saw the world as a wilderness where "greedy and furious men persecute and devour the harmless and innocent." In this life men are as "strangers, conversing with strange companies, dwelling in strange houses, lodging in strange beds, and knowing not whether this day, this night, shall be our final change of this strange place for one far stranger, more dark and doleful." He believed in predestination, in the Bible as the absolute authority, in the need for man constantly to search his innermost soul to determine whether he is worthy to receive God's grace. The point on which Williams and the Puritans differed was the government of community and its individual souls. Covenant Theology New England Puritans were Calvinists, but only in part. 'Though they found many of Calvin's doctrines useful, actually his theology was too severe for the aggressive, industrious, optimistic English temperament. Hence more nearly central to their belief was Covenant 633 A Perry Picture ROGER WILLIAMS' CHURCH or Federal Theology, originated in England but most fully developed in the New World. Through this belief men are not unconditionally damned or saved; if they do their part, they have a claim on God's grace, and, while not sanctified by their works, they can count on God's justification, if they perform good works. Now, in their own eyes, the Puritans could maintain a sense of inward dignity matching their outward affluence, itself substantial evidence that God _ was pleased with them, else he would not allow them to prosper. 'Thus under Covenant Theology, Puritans came to believe in a God who helps those who help themselves. According to this concept, originally God covenanted with Adam, his near-equal, that if he and his posterity would do as God instructed them and obey him, all would receive immortality. When Adam and Eve broke this "Covenant of 634 Music Suggested for Use by Relief Societies in Connection with Course on America's Literature. BEAUTIFUL SAVIOUR |... 2... -16 ss NOW THANK WE ALL OUR GOD.20 - O BREAD OF LIFE.........................10 = O SACRED HEAD NOW WOUNDED....... -- 5 a. PRAISE TO THE LORD.....................16 ss ] LOVE THY KINGDOM.................16 a. ALL MY HEART THIS NIGHT REJOICES 20 - MY GOD, HOW WONDERFUL.......16 = WE THANK THEE, JESUS, DEAREST FRIEND..... 16 = LAMB OF GOD, PURE AND HOLY.18 = GOD THE FATHER, BE OUR STAY.18 rae ONCE HE CAME IN BLESSING.....25 a AND WITH SONGS, I WILL 0) 2 | 25 a JOSEPH, DEAREST JOSEPH MINE.22 ir THE LORD, MY GOD, BE PRAISED.22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. [J On Approval (J Charge CJ Money Enclosed | Address... \ DaynesMicce | mm Li mom E. Lst South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO Sal! Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 Works," God in his mercy established a new "Covenant of Grace" through Abraham, thus saving humankind from damnation. The new covenant asked that to be saved man have faith in God, believe in the coming of Christ, and live good lives. Puritan fathers believed that "God sifted a whole nation to bring choice grain into the wilderness," and that they and they alone were God's chosen and covenant people. The church itself was a collection of "visible saints," and God ratified the Covenant with New England Puritans when he permitted them to come to these shores in safety to found a New Jerusalem, a New Canaan, a New Zion, or a Bible Commonwealth, as it was variously called. This invisible covenant or invis ible church was symbolized by the visible one; likewise, in the words of John Cotton, it is "evident by the light of nature that all civil relations are founded in covenant'; therefore, as God covenants with his chosen groups, so the members of the group covenant to obey their God-chosen rulers, or the theocracy. Correspondingly, in each church, or "Little Israel" it was the leaders' first responsibility to make certain that the true faith was not corrupted; if necessary they would punish with ducking-stool, stocks, whip, excommunication, or even death any offenses "against the light of conscience." For them toleration of error itself constituted the most grave error. Williams Defines Religious Freedom To Roger Williams religious belief was too sacred and intimate a mat- LESSON DEPARTMENT ter to be the concern of the state or the church; it was only between man and his soul. When Wilhams was banished, he was told that "When the Lord is in Covenant with his people, they follow him not forcedly, but as farre as they are sanctified by grace, they submit willingly to his regiment.' For Williams this was a "body-killing, souls-killing, state-killing doctrine of not permitting, but persecuting all other consciences and ways of worship but his own." For him the "peace Civille" was always secondary; his concern was to protect the "peace Spiritual" within each man's heart and soul. He believed that granting "soul liberty" to all is the only means of even approaching Christianity in mortality, and the groundwork for preserving human peace. He replied to the theocracy that "forced worship stinks in God's nostrils"; that forced worship denies the coming of Christ by imitating the Jews, who had a national church. It is but Humanity, it is but Christianity to exercise meekness and moderation to all men.... I must be humbly bold to say that 'tis impossible for any man to maintain Christ by the sword and to worship a true Christ, to fight against all consciences opposite to theirs, and not to fight against God. He knew in his heart that "persecutors of men's bodies seldom or never do these men's souls good." When his enemies spoke bitter words against toleration and freedom of conscience, he replied: It is monstrous paradox, that God's children should persecute God's children, and that they that hope to live eternal together with Jesus Christ in the heavens, should not suffer each other to live in this common air together.... In vain 635 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah ®@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Sait Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 000. 5 150 to 300 miles a 300 to 600 miles.. 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles.. 1400 to 1800 miles. ~- Over 1800 miles —........002-0 2..87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah have English Parliaments permitted English Bibles in the poorest English houses, and the simplest man or woman to search the Scriptures, if yet against their soules persuasion from the Scriptures they should be forced (as if they lived in Spaine or Rome itselfe without the sight of a Bible) to beleeve as the Church beleeves. Fearlessly Williams spoke out his conviction that Englishmen who had left their homeland for freedom of conscience's sake had no right to deny that same freedom to other earnest seekers after religious truth. Herein lies the heart of the man, and his great contribution to our heritage. He was one of the first English writers to achieve insight into the true meaning of freedom; that regardless of being right or wrong, false or true, whoever forces belief in another, or prevents another from believing as his conscience dictates, destroys no one's freedom but his own. That such a belief should be stated in mature force on our shores is not by chance. For him, as for us, freedom is a condition of the spirit, and the great prerequisite toward achieving true religious growth. Williams' last words to us fairly represent the quality of his faith in his own private powers of discovering God for himself. Having dedicated himself early in life to the principle of "soul liberty,' he had long known the high cost of maintaining spiritual integrity. To Roger Williams one's private testimony of religious truth was more precious than the entire world: We must hold fast.... We must not let go for all the flea-bitings of the present afflictions. Having bought truth dear, we must not sell it cheap, not the least grain of it for the whole world, no, not for the saving of souls, though our own [be] most precious. Roger Williams sowed some of the great seeds in American tradition. He planted deep; the seeds matured slowly. But from his aggressive conviction that each individual soul is sacred only as long as it is free to believe as it pleases, has flowered American freedom, not only religious, but social, economic and political as well. Thoughts for Discussion 1. During Williams' last years in Rhode Island, what caused him to fear for his people's future? 2. Why did he oppose Covenant Theology? 3. What is his definition of freedom? SOCIAL SCIENCE—Latter-day Saint Family Life No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 Students of Brigham Young University are in demand because of superior training, not only in academic | fields, but in preparation for life. Get your education the Y's way—attend the Church University. Plan NOW to attend autumn quarter. Freshman Orientation, Sept. 24-27 Registration, Sept. 29-30 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 §. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH LIVE BETTER ELECTRICALLY with Full HOUSEPOWER Electricity Costs So Little You Can Afford a Lot UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. She Bazaa r (Continued from page 603) He drew a small white box from his coat pocket. "I saw this at the bazaar,' he went on. "I liked it. Somehow it reminded me of you." He put his arm around her shoulder, drew her to him, kissed her on the mouth. Inside the house, Shari, still clutching the box in her hand, paid Mrs. Fabian for sitting with Jefty and Rosie and Paul. It was only when she was alone that she opened the box. Shari sat with her own pin again in her hand. Smiling and turning it over, she seemed to see it for the first time. "Why, it'll go nicely with this navy suit," she decided suddenly. "Ill go well with almost everything I have!" She hurried toward the bedroom. With the pin in place on her lapel, she met her own eyes in the miuror. What was that saying about "bread upon the waters?" 'That was the way she felt now. It was exactly the way she felt now. Sranguility Winona Frandsen Thomas While on a mountain top I find A balm to ease my troubled mind. My thoughts soar out and bring to me What I need most, tranquility. 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1958 due optomber let FABULOUS COLORED PICTURES AND MAP 12 PICTURES —1 MAP especially designed for literature class teachers ® SEND $5.00 (which includes postage in U. S. A.) TO: GRAPHIC ARTS DEPT. AUDIO-VISUAL CENTER BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH WE CAN GIVE YOU IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT ON ALL THE Hawaii Tour Beautiful Fall Tour leaving Salt Lake on November 23, 1958. Transportation is either by boat or plane. Fourteen day tour —visiting four islands. English Temple Dedication Tour Leaves August 29th from New York City. Several tours going to Dedication of the Temple either by air or boat. These are very reasonable tours. Christmas Holiday Tour This eight day tour includes the Tournament of Roses Parade. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2337, CR 7-6334 MUSIC FOR USE OF RELIEF SOCIETIES in connection with course on AMERICA'S LITERATURE commencing October, 1958. And also We carry all suggested music for SINGING MOTHERS GROUPS! "Instant Courteous Service' GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. 74 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah No other school offers you so much... E Unexcelled Study Opportunities ¢ An Outstandingly Strong Faculty © Home State Environment ¢ A Friendly School A well-rounded study, social, athletic program. You'll find all this... And more at your State University. COLLEGES OF INSTRUCTION Engineering © Nursing ¢ Fine Arts Education e Law © Business Medicine * Mining ¢ Social Work Pharmacy and other fields. Dates to remember:? Sept. 25—Freshmen Register Sept. 26-27—Other Students Register Sept. 29—Classwork Starts See what the 'U' has to offer YOU! For full information write: Office of the President UNIVERSITY ie LAKE CITY, UTAH Birthday Congratulations Ninety-five Mrs. Emity SumMSION CRANDALL Orem, Utah Mrs. Emma SuMSION CRANMER (twin sister of Mrs. Crandall) Orem, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Lucinpa Avira Pace Repp Monticello, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. EvizABETH WARBURTON BROWN Magna, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Sarau M. Rosran Lorenzo, Idaho Ninety Mrs. Mary PENELOPE THOMPSON WILLIAMS Malad, Idaho Mrs. Susan J. Smiru Jarvis Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lucy JANE THomas TimoTHy Sandy, Utah Mrs. JosEPHINE Ropinson Harris Provo, Utah anes — Only Hearts Can Hear Maude O. Cook In tones that only hearts can hear, When once attuned to loftier strains, Faith speaks in accents firm and clear. No sound is heard by mortal ear, For faith a subtler speech attains; It whispers hope and dries the tear, And gives the courage which sustains; In tones that only hearts can hear, Faith speaks in accents firm and clear. For Your Relief Society Reading AMERICAS LITERATURE JAMES D. HART and CLARENCE GOHDES Select writings from foremost American writers, from the days of the Pilgrims to 1950, are included in this mammoth volume. This is, without a doubt, one of the most comprehensive and all-inclusive volumes ever published on representative American writers. $6.75 Postage.15 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS COMMENTARY This book contains not only the full Doctrine and Covenants, but accompanying each page of scripture are commentaries gathered from cross-references from other standard LDS works and from writings of the leaders of the Church. $4.00 GOSPEL IDEALS DISCOURSES OF PRESIDENT DAVID 0. McKAY Here is found the essence of President McKay's fine insight into gospel principles—his depth of understanding of the Priesthood and _ its work, the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Church as a World-Wide Institution. $4.00 44 East South Temple I Salt Lake City, Utah | Gentlemen: | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order | ( ) | have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed Se.; a for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 INGUIN. Srccwcenecesaeesereceeerevesseeesreversssreressseoueresvessoneronuereorrermnomersasvemem 7) \c be: 0 eee ee | DESERET BOOK COMPANY (GT... Oc ---ae 2c abeneeccecas seen socbbeeee nce Zone........ State..............0-- f | Utah peaches sweetened with U and I Sugar are delicious. U and I Sugar not only acts as a sweetening agent but helps cto preserve the natural flavor, shape and texture of fruit. You'll find U and I also helps to bring out the full rich flavor of fresh fruits. Order your U and I canning sugar today —you can't buy a finer, purer, whiter sugar anywhere. Get the big 10-, 25-, 50-, or 100-Ib. Bags for canning time —. " nye 6 = ae gl SUGAR sa PURE FINE GRANULATED ~ Ratits TEP SOCUEIY MAGA BIN B Sete g in October Dorothy J. Roberts A moment comes to earth when time stands still As autumn shadows flow into one sea Of shade at sunfall, and the amber tree, Like a lamp diffused outside the window sill, Leaves not a stain of darkness on the lawn. And though no gilded shafts of sunlight rise, No obelisks of light from earth to skies, The creeping shapes of darkness, all, are gone. Peace moves like mist above the quiet land, No pattern pulses on the sunless floor, The globes seem painted on the sycamore, A task lies folded by the resting hand. A moment comes to all when life stands still As twilight pauses on the heart and hill. The Cover: Scene on the West Coast of South Island, New Zealand Photograph by Wendell B. Mendenhall Frontispiece: Autumn in Maine Luoma Photos Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Tear and Sar I especially appreciate the course of study outlined by the General Board. It truly gives each member who reads the Magazine, a well-balanced understanding of the important things in life, literature, theology, social science, sewing, work planning, and in the many other helps given. The stories are lessons in themselves. I enjoyed the April editorial "Swifter Than a Weaver's Shuttle," by Helen W. Anderson, very much. The story "The Heart of the Home," by Frances C. Yost in the April Magazine was excellent. I always enjoy stories by this author as her stories are so true to life and always a personal lesson in living can be learned by reading each of them. 'The Relief Society sisters in the South are deeply grateful for having such a wonderful Magazine. It has been such a help to us in our work and development, as most of the branches have been organized only a few years and progress has been made through diligent, combined effort, and the Magazine has been our source of contact with the work of Relief Society. —Mrs. Hazel Clark Work Director Counselor Southern States Mission Eglin Air Base, Florida Mary Nuffer's letter in the August Relief Society Magazine reminded me that I had not written and told you, nor Edna Day, how much I liked her "Wee Pine Knot" (Third Prize Story, March 1958). It cartied a very pertinent lesson. I asked my own girls to be sure and read it. I am always delighted to see one of Florence Dunford's stories ("'Papa and His Grapes," May 1958), and I enjoyed Olive Burt's serial "Elizabeth's Children." Perhaps it would save space if I just said I enjoy the Magazine. With two exceptions, I have every year's Magazines since 1919. 'The earlier issues were my mother's. It is interesting to see how the Magazine has grown and developed, and how much closer to our needs the later ones are. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho Page 642 I have recently had a rather long illness from which I am now thankfully recovered. For quite some time I was unable to interest myself in reading of any kind, but as I began to feel better I very much enjoyed the special short story issue of The Relief Society Magazine (April 1958). I passed this Magazine on to two of my fellow patients in the hospital, and they were quite impressed with the wide field the Magazine covers. I was privileged to have a few gospel conversations with them. I certainly missed my association with Relief Society during those months, but was uplifted by willing help and visits from the sisters of the branch during those months. I trust and pray that this work may go forward, and that we may do much good in the name of the Lord. —Minnie Selkirk Newcastle on Tyne England I surely enjoyed the July issue of the Magazine. Thanks to Jean Ridges Jennings ("You Can Sew—V. Pressing") I have learned several new sewing tricks. Dorothy J. Roberts' "The Olympian Rain Forest" was wonderfully descriptive and interesting to me. I found Enola Chamberlin's touching poem "With You Away" poignantly lovely. 'Thanks again for a wonderfully big little Magazine. —El]sie McKinnon Strachan Santa Ana, California I love the Magazine very much. The poems, short stories, recipes, and the lessons all have been inspiring to me, and have helped me to assume responsibilities which before studying the Magazine would have frightened me. Now, with these good recipes, I am confident in having guests come to our home for dinner. Now in the last few issues we have directions for learning to sew. I am going to start from the first issue and read all of the sewing articles. —Eldora Jane Williams Waterloo, Iowa THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - = = = = =. - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Hulda Parker - Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young Edith S. Elliott Josie B. Ba Winnietred S. Afton W. Hunt Florence J. Madsen Christine H. Robinson Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall Leone G. Layton Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Pearle M. Olsen Blanche B. Stodderd Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Elsa T. Peterson Charlotte A. Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Evon W. Peterson arsen Mary R. Young Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 OCTOBER 1958 NO. 10 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Whom and Where Will You Marry? ElRay L. Christiansen 644 In Memoriam—Elder Clifford Earle Young............... S. Dilworth Young 649 Elen Louise Wallace Madsen Appointed Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Marianne C. Sharp 651 Helen Woodrulf Anderson Released as Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Belle §. Spafford 653 The New Zealand South Mission Preston R. Nibley 656 Practical Nursing, a Dignified Lifetime Career........ Maria Johnson 658 Danger—Curve Ahead 664 FICTION Silent Carillons Mabel Law Atkinson 668 "Not to the Swift''—Chapter 4 - Deone R. Sutherland 673 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 642 Sixty Years Ago 660 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 661 Editorial: Children in Relief Society 2 Marianne C. Sharp 662 Gladys Sessions Boyer Released From the General Board... 664 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 22... EceecceeeeecnceceseeeessectenecccceeeeesHulda Parker 679 Birthday Congratulations 712 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the New Zealand South Mission Wealtha S. Mendenhall 666 You Can Sew—VII.—Setting in Sleeves.. Jean R. Jennings 670 Julia Sullivan Greene Enjoys Many Hobbies............. 678 LESSONS FOR JANUARY Theology—A Message From Him Who Is Etermal o00.. O...2e. Ce-ececceseceseseeseceeeeceseecneeseseoesRoy W. Doxey 686 Visiting Teacher Messages—''Learn of Me, and Listen to My Words".... Christine H. Robison 693 Work Meeting—Qualities of the Effective Home Manager 0............ S.---eceeeeeescoeeceeeeeeeeesVesta Barnett 695 Literature—Some Puritan Women ou... CessscscscessceeeeesesnsenscocnseeueseeocsensescecereesereeeserceoeessBriant S. Jacobs 697 Social Science—Weighed in the Balances... Se __. NJohn Farr Larson 704 POETRY Sung in October—Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 641 At Twilight.. Sylvia Probst Young 650 Nostalgic Balm Elizabeth MacDougall 652 Blue Spruces Eva Willes Wangsgaard 655 Homecoming Florence A. Clark 657 Dessert....... Maude Rubin 663 Last Campfire Elsie McKinnon Strachan 667 Tribute to the Quilting Chairman Colleen Pinegar 667 Hands Enola Chamberlin 669 Baking Day Vesta N. Lukei 672 October Wheattields Ethel Jacobson 692 The Transient Grace Ingles Frost 696 Sweet Purple Belle W. Anderson 712 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by the General Board of Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Fall Fantasy...-.. Cccscscecsesscsseesesessecssscesesesensancsesenescseceseneas Annie Atkin Tanner 654 Whom and Where Will You Marry? EIRay L. Christiansen Assistant to the Council of the Twelve President, Salt Lake 'Temple wholesome couple, who after their marriage had come into the Church as converts, came recently with their family of young children to the temple to receive their endowments and_ to be sealed as a family. They had come from a distant city. The husband made it known that his wife was suffering from a disease which is considered incurable. It was a real struggle for her to gather sufficient strength for the temple services. But when she and her husband kneeled at the altar and were there sealed as husband and wife forever, a smile of deep satisfaction came over her beautiful countenance. Then when her young children, dressed in white, were conducted into the sealing room, she wept with joy. After the children had been sealed to their parents and the family were promised that if they were faithful, they should come forth in the resurrection as a family, she said quietly to them, "It doesn't matter now. We'll be together again and forever. It doesn't matter now!" Well, no doubt it didn't matter nearly so much as it would have if that family had not had the wisdom to act and not procrastinate; to take hold of their blessings while they were obtainable. The assurance that there would be a grand family reunion, even though some members of the family were taken by death, Page 644 gave that father and mother, as well as their children, the courage and the fortitude to meet the hazards of life. | To be together forever with those you love most! What a blessing! What comfort! What anticipation! Sealing of families for time and eternity is one of the greatest blessings that ever was conferred upon the human family. Yet it is a principle which has always existed with God. If in this life only we have the hope of association with our companions and with our children, the purpose of rearing families would be comparatively meaningless. We are living not merely for the moment, but for eternity. Our temples, those costly structures which have been built in the past and which will continue to be built, are prepared primarily as sanctuaries wherein ordinances and powers may be given to make possible the perpetuity of home and family — wherein husband and wife and children may be bound in an everlasting union transcending the limitations of this mortal life. What a meaning this principle gives to marriage; to the home and to the family! To preserve the family relationship here and hereafter is, perhaps, the most important purpose of life, and of the gospel. That such relationships and associations hereafter should be possible is consistent WHOM AND WHERE WILL YOU MARRY? With reason. All righteous parents, all righteous people have a natural, inborn desire to associate forever with those they love. But it is consistent, also, to believe that we must conform to the laws and to the conditions that make such associations possible. God is a God of order; a God of law and not of confusion. For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof. As were instituted from before the foundation of the world (D & C 132:5). F course, the time to be married right is when we are married. Surely the Lord delights in seeing our Father's children take hold of their blessings as soon as they are made aware of their availability. Some couples, like the one mentioned in the beginning, are married before they are made acquainted with the principle of marriage for eternity. In these cases permission is given for such people to enter the temple and receive their blessings after civil marriage, provided they are living lives that are worthy in every way to do so. 'Temple ordinances for the dead are intended for those who have died without a knowledge of the gospel, but who would have accepted it had they been permitted to live. Those who have been taught the necessity of entering the temple, there to receive the ordinances of the endowment and of sealing and then through indifference refuse or neglect to do so, are placing in jeopardy the exalted status that could be theirs in the life to come. Indeed, now is the day of our salvation! 645 Through the prophet Amulck the Lord has said very pointedly: For behold, this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.... For after this day of life, which is given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve our time while in this life, then cometh the might of darkness wherein there can be no labor performed... (Alma 34° 32998))- The people to whom Amulek was speaking had had the gospel taught to them. They knew what was expected of them if they qualified themselves for the fulness of joy in the life to come. We have in this life opportunity to repent and to prepare ourselves (if we do not delay that repenting too long), but none of us may expect to have a second chance to live our mortal lives. Someone has wisely said: "Now is the time to take hold of your blessings." Not long ago a sixteen-year-old girl was asked to speak in one of the sessions of a quarterly conference. She had been given only ten minutes to clear her mind and evaluate her blessings. With deep feeling she said, "I am grateful for wise parents. They have carefully helped me to chart my course in life. Many times my mother has encouraged me to live a pure life so that I could look forward to entering the temple in a few years. Whenever I have gone on a date I have, upon returning home, sort of 'reported in.' Even though my parents might have retired, I usually sit on the side of their bed and tell them everything. My desire is to be married worthily in the temple to a boy worthy of taking me there and I don't want to do anything that would disqualify me." 646 HAT a blessing to children are parents wise enough and sufficiently concerned to counsel with their children and warn them against the pitfalls of life; parents who explain the blessings the temple brings, and who inspire their children to look forward to entering one of these holy places in worthiness. In giving counsel to the members of the Church, Brigham Young said: Be careful, O ye mothers in Israel, and do not teach your daughters in future, as many of them have been taught, to marry out of Israel. Woe to you who do it; you will lose your crowns as sure as God lives (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 196). If parents do not take the pains to teach their children all of the principles of the gospel as soon as they are old enough, the condemnation will be upon the parents. To teach our children "... The doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands," and other principles of the gospel, including the principle of eternal martlage, is a strict commandment of the Lord (D & C 68:25). In this teaching of children, fathers and mothers must not rely entirely upon the Church to direct the thinking and the lives of their children. The Church can only supplement the efforts of the parents, and it is not sufficient that parents merely admonish now and _ again. What we wish our children to seek must be spelled out in the lives of their parents. Even though our sons and our daughters may forget much of what they hear, they will never forget that which they feel. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 The emphasis that parents place upon the things of life has a lasting effect upon the children. If, therefore, our sons and our daughters know that we place highest in the values of life the blessings received in the temple; if children see their parents living on a high plane, keeping all the while the commandments, and observing the laws of God, it will have a lasting effect upon them. As a rule, the teaching that is done by exemplary living has a greater impact upon the lives of children than does any other form of teaching. One can preach a better sermon with his life than with his lips. While living proper lives, parents should actually teach the relative values and blessings extended in connection with marriage in the temple with those received elsewhere. 'This can be done without discussing the sacred temple ordinances themselves. At least, young people should understand the fact that when members of the Church are married outside of the temple they can be married only for the duration of their lives in the flesh, and that when they die their marriage ceases to exist, even if they are worthy to enter the celestial kingdom. For, if they are permitted to enter into that kingdom, they do so as servants, not as sons and daughters. They are not entitled to nor qualified for the fulness of the celestial kingdom. The Lord has said of these: Therefore, when they are out of the world they neither marry nor are given in marriage; but are appointed angels in heaven; which angels are ministering servants, to minister for those who are worthy of a far more, and an exceeding, and an eternal weight of glory. WHOM AND WHERE WILL YOU MARRY? For these angels did not abide my laws; therefore, they cannot be enlarged, but remain separately and singly, without exaltation, in their saved condition, to all eternity; and from henceforth are not gods, but are angels of God forever and ever (D & C 132:16-17). In light of this revelation the thought may enter the minds of some as to the status of those unmarried women who would have entered into the marriage covenant but have not had opportunity to do so, under the proper conditions. I take the liberty to quote here a beautiful statement made by President Joseph Fielding Smith in regard to this. Said he: You good sisters, who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. _ If im your hearts you feel that the gospel is true, and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord; and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now; the Lord will make it up, and you shall be blessed — for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld in this life, and he is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help (Elijah the Prophet and His Mission, page 32). Our sons and daughters should be helped to understand that "marriage is ordained of God," as stated in the 4oth section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Marriage is designed for noble and lofty purposes, the chief of which is to bring forth children in honor and to teach them to love the Lord. The sacredness and decency of marriage must be 647 impressed upon our boys and girls. Thoughtless, hasty marriages usually flounder in regrets and sorrow. Therefore we must advocate high standards of courtship, the choosing of mates with similar standards and comparable religious views. GPEAKING to a large audience of young people assembled in the tabernacle a few years ago, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency gave this warning: You young people are trifling with your divine destiny, you are treating lightly a great commandment, you are casting aside as dross the greatest opportunity that comes into your life, when you fail or refuse to be married in our temples where husband and wife may be sealed for time and for all eternity by the man bearing the Holy Priesthood of God. A civil marriage — and that is all that any marriage is that is performed outside the temple — merely legalizes marital relationship. It has none of the effects of a sealing for time and eternity. If you young people think enough of one another to marry at all, you should love one another enough to wish to perpetuate your association forever. If you do not think enough of one another for that, you may well hesitate long before you go forward in life otherwise. The situation is not changed by having your bishop or president of your stake or some ex-bishop friend, or like person, perform the ceremony for time. All these are civil marriages only. When two souls have a true regard for each other, a genuine affection — not merely that which is sometimes called love, but which is merely physical attraction — when they are really united in spirit with the same lofty ideals and standards, loving each other, trusting each other, having respect and admiration for each other, with sincere recognition of virtue and honor, loving the 648 good and the beautiful, having a disposition and a firm desire to avoid the weaknesses of the mortal flesh; when such people are thus joined together and sealed according to the ordinances and ceremony which the Lord has instituted, there is something reassuring and joyous in the thought that though death may part them, yet in the resurrection they shall come forth and enjoy the fulness of the blessings of the family relationship. These living souls will go on increasing in that affection and love and admiration and power and dominion and even to exaltation. Their family will continue forever. There will be no more parting because there will be no more death. Happiness and joy will abound. They will find themselves in the presence of God, the Father, and of Christ, the Son, and holy beings of that degree. They will associate and participate in all that is good and great and elevating, and all eternity will be opened to them, and they will comprehend the workings and the designs of God, and the mysteries of God will be unfolded unto them. They will, in fact, live in a state of never-ending happiness.. Of course, these blessings are realized only when we seek them and, as the Lord has said, "When ye abide in my covenant." My what disappointment, what regret, what remorse, will be felt by those who, because of neglect or indifference, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 fail or refuse to enter into the marriage covenant according to the way God has designed it! But those who receive these powers in worthiness, and abide by them, shall arise when the Lord shall call them, and they will be Christ's at his coming. In the words of President Charles W. Penrose:.. He will call our sleeping dust to life, and they will (still) be joined together, not only in spirit and body, but as happy parents they will come together again, standing at the head of their posterity as Adam and Eve will stand at the head of the multitude who are quickened and raised from the dead. Whom will you marry?) Where will you marry? Where will you live after you die? These are questions which each individual must answer. But the Lord has given a plan for eternal success and happiness. This is the great day of temple building in the Church. Because of the deep concern of the First Presidency, three temples have been built in foreign lands within the past three years in addition to the beautiful one erected in Los Angeles, California. Our beloved President David O. McKay has traveled many thousands of miles to dedicate these sacred and holy temples that the blessings of the Lord may be poured forth upon the saints, making possible, even for those in many foreign countries, to become endowed and sealed as families forevermore. Let us take hold of our blessings "while the day lasts." Yn Nem O ria nti— Elder Clifford Earle Young Assistant to the Council of the 'Twelve (December 7, 1883 - August 21, 1958) Elder S. Dilworth Young Of the First Council of Seventy ELDER CLIFFORD EARLE YOUNG N his early years Clifford Earle Young was that rare type of man who is loved by his nieces and nephews. Somehow we were always treated by him as though we were his age. He had pet nicknames for each of us. Perhaps there was some characteristic in us which excited his humor or his imagination, and the name was tacked on. We always knew that they were "love" names. They were always spoken with a caress in the voice. He went out of his way to take us with him to the small farm his father owned or up at Mountain Dell, the summer camping place. He might have more often taken those his own age, but he usually didn't. And we were content to go and just be with him. He didn't confine this practice to his relatives. He often took boys of his ward, too. Later, he took on a man's responsibilities, but he kept up the relationship. Everyone of us felt free to go to him with joys, sorrows, troubles, triumphs. When he married Edith Grant the most happy of all were his small relatives. All of us knew we would like her because he did—and none were disappointed. She took his supporters to her heart and treated them as he had done. In one of his major decisions he decided to cast his lot with the people of American Fork, Utah. He had a good opportunity offered him by a Salt Lake firm, but he saw in that town his best place to serve. What he had done for his young relatives in Salt Lake, he enlarged and carried forward in his new home. Reading about the many civic and Church offices he held, one realizes that he meant to serve, and he proved his desires by his works. He was early recognized and accepted there as an honest, truthful, courageous leader. He spoke his mind, sometimes sharply, but his acts dulled the edge of the words. He Page 649 650 sometimes reproved a man for his foolish decisions, and at the same time, protected him financially while that person could work out a better way to solve the problem. I doubt if there is an instance where a person in need of help and willing to stand up to the responsibility, failed to get aid from Clifford Young. I have been to stake quarterly conferences following his visits of a few months previous. Universally people have spoken of his warm humanity, his humble reticence at being a burden, his kindly conversation, his sage advice, his sweet spirit. Each stake has been better able to receive of the Spirit by his visit. Like the other members of his family, he loved to read good books. He could not endure poorly written expressions, but noble observations on the people of our lives and times, well-written, were a passion with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 him. During the past two years he was especially taken up with an extensive study of Abraham Lincoln, but all the while this was going on, one would find on his reading table the latest books on politics, government, biography, and history. From all of these he gleaned the portions that were truth and applied them to his life. Most of all, he was true to a selfimposed trust to see that his sisters, unable to care for themselves, should not want. When he was stricken with what is ordinarily a quickly fatal disease, he prayed with all his heart that he might be spared to finish that task. We believe the Lord heard and granted the request. He was a noble man of noble parents. His family, his kinfolk, and his friends will gain many lessons from his life—and will hold dear his memory. ——- At Swilight Sylvia Probst Young So often when I see an evening sky, Or some high hill bathed by a lingering ray Of sunlight; when long shadows gently bring The close of day— So often then, I think of you, dear one, Who loved the eventide, and you must know From you I learned to mark the shadowed light, The crimson afterglow— When birds have gone to rest and when the night Is ushered in one by one, lone, crystal star, So often then I think that you are near— I hope you are. Elen Louise Wallace Mladsen Appointed Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Marianne C. Sharp Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society ELEN LOUISE WALLACE MADSEN ON August 11, 1958, Elen Louise Wallace Madsen was called to be Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society to fill the vacancy occasioned by Helen Woodruff Anderson being called to serve a mission with her husband, Alexander P. Anderson, who was named president of the New Zealand South Mission. Louise Madsen is well trained and qualified to accept the heavy responsibilities of her new position. She has served on the General Board since December 1947. Throughout those past eleven years she has had the wholehearted support and cooperative help of her husband, Francis Armstrong Madsen (President of the Madsen Furniture Company of Salt Lake and Ogden, Utah) and of her five children—Francis A. Jr., Mary Louise (Mrs. Ben E. Rawlings), Robert Ashley, Richard Harper, and Peter William. At the present time three of the sons are in the Armed Forces. 'There are six grandchildren in this closely knit family. The spirit of the gospel radiates from it as it guides and ditects the family living. Both Mr. And Mrs. Madsen have rich pioneer heritages. Mrs. Madsen's father was Ashley Harper Wallace, youngest son of Patriarch Henty Wallace. Her mother, Claribel Louise Woods, was a granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt. Her grandfather, Francis Charles Woods, assisted Brother Joseph Ridges in building the Salt Lake Tabernacle organ. Mr. Madsen's paternal grandfather was Peter William Madsen, and _ his maternal grandfather was the well known early day business leader, Francis Armstrong. Mrs. Madsen has manifested integrity, ability, and devotion to the Church throughout her life. She is of a studious nature, and after graduating from the Latter-day Saints College continued her studies at the University of Utah. In her earlier years she served on the Mt. Ogden Stake Primary Board, as a teacher in Junior Seminary, and a leader of the Gleaner Girls of the Twelfth Ward, Emigration Stake, when her husband was the bishop. Louise was president of the Emigration Stake Relief Society at the time she was called to the General Board. Page 651 652 Previously she had served in both the literature and theology departments of Relief Society. Her work on the General Board has been marked by untiring application to every assignment which has been given her. She has served on nearly every General Board committee and has magnified her office. Louise Madsen has endeared herself not only to the General Board members with whom she has worked so closely; but her sweet, gracious personality, her humility, and testimony have brought her close to the sisters in the stakes whom she has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 ai visited on conventions and special assignments. 'The happiness and humility with which she has accepted this new calling are evidence of her own strength and her acceptance and reliance on the inspired words of Nephi, "For I know that the Lord giveth no commandment unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them." Louise Madsen will accomplish this latest assignment with distinction to herself and to her beloved Relief Society. —<- Tlosta gic Balm Elizabeth MacDougall There grows beside a desert cabin door On western plain, a morning-glory vine. Each day a sun-browned woman bends before The struggling plant, as if it were a shrine, The souvenir of all she counted best Resents the alien soil from which it drew Scant nourishment. Its root gropes deep in quest Of prime New England loam, its parents knew. The woman, yielding not to nature's ban, Caresses leaf and bloom through homesick tears. This transferred bit of "home"' has bridged the span Of desert miles to girlhood's cherished years. Her heart finds balm for its nostalgic pain As she visions, here, a vine-wreathed door in Maine. Helen Woodruff Andenon Released as Seuond ( oxen' wn the General Presidency of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford General President of Relicf Socicty ANDERSON HE General Board of Relief Society announces that on August 11, 1958, Helen Woodruff Anderson was released as Second Counsclor in the General Presidency and as a member of the General Board, necessitated by a call to serve with her husband, Brother Alexander P. Anderson, who was appointed by the First Presidency to preside over the New Zealand South Mission. Sister Anderson has given long and valued service to Relief Society in ward, stake, and General Board capacities. She has won the love and esteem of the sisters with whom she has associated wherever her Relief Society activities have taken her. While she will be greatly missed by her present associates, all rejoice HELEN W. That onc so able, experienced, understanding, and gracious has been called to lead the sisters and guide the work of Relicf Society under the direction of the Priesthood in that faraway mission of the Church. Sister Anderson was called to the General Board September 26, 1950. She was serving as Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society president at the time of her call and also as assistant group leader of the Relief Society Presidents' Department at the Jordan Valley Region bi-monthly welfare meetings. Her wide experience in Relief Societv, her native endowments, her training in the field of home economics, her firm testimony of the gospel, and her depend: ible devotion to the work of elie Church contributed toward eminently qualifying her for her position on the General Board. When a vacancy occurred in the General Presidency, Sister Anderson was a logical choice to fill this high office. She was appointed Second Counselor in the General Presidency by the First Presidency on January 2, 1957. She has met the responsibilities of this position with characteristic devotion, ability, and with unusual sensitiveness to the diversified and exacting requirements of it. She has also shown a quick sensibility to the interests and responsibilities of her associates in the Presidency. Her special division of responsibility in the General Presidency has Page 653 654 been the work meeting program and the annual stake Relief Society conventions. She has had supervision of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, instituting some new features. As a member of the General Presidency, she has served as an advisory member of the General Church Welfare Committee, a member of its clothing committee, and also a member of the Deseret Industries Committee. She has also been chairman of the General Board Committee assigned to assist with taking inventories at the general Church Welfare storehouse. To all of her work Sister AnderRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 son has given a judicious, quiet strength and a spirit of devoted service. She has been a valued and beloved counselor. Her service to Relief Society is by no means terminated by her call to the New Zealand South Mission; it is merely transferred to a new field of labor, where her many virtues and qualifications will be a blessing to the sisters and will advance the work of the Relief Society there. Her associates of the General Board wish for her in her new field of service happiness, and the choice blessings of the Lord. <> Fall Fantasy Annie Atkin Tanner This autumn day is a soft, blue shawl, To wrap around my shoulders, While I recall Golden cottonwood trees Standing by a river. Scarlet maple-banners swaying On a mountainside, And a huge cream-cake cloud - In the sky. I would keep these precious moments Of remembering Purple-mist, curtains floating Just below a yellow moon; Daring brown night-birds Singing out of tune With talking streams, And the smile of a little girl When she dreams Of lovely, white meadowsweet Tied with moonbeams. Josef Muench OSSIPEE RIVER IN THE WHITE MOUNTAINS OF NEW HAMPSHIRE Blue Sp ruces Eva Willes Wangsgaard Blue spruces love the darkness, some small part Of every night clings to their limbs and keeps Behind the pungent greenness, near the heart, To hide from sun until the long day sleeps. Hear how the mverse rapids of the wind Are climbing curves, the pattern of long blowing, Seeking the reaches where the skies rescind The trees' resistance into even flowing. And still the scraps of night escape the sun In versatile dark chambers under fronds Which leap with wind yet cover every one, Each purple fragment cool as autumn ponds. The spruces stand in sun, high, cruelly bright, But jealously they shield their pools of night. Page 65° The Nlew Lealand South Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE First Presidency announced, in the Church Section of The Deseret News, under date of May 31, 1958, that the New Zealand Mission would be divided and that a new mission would be formed, to be known as the New Zealand South Mission. New headquarters, including a home and office, are to be established at Wellington. The mission will include all of the South Island and the southern part of the North Island. The exact boundaries are yet to be determined. It has been estimated that there are now approximately 6,200 members of the Church who will be located in the new mission. Alexander P. Anderson of Salt Lake City has been chosen as the first president of the New Zealand South Mission. Elder Anderson served in the New Zealand Mission in 1920-1922, where he was a member of the faculty of the Maori Agricultural College. Many of the students from New Zealand and other islands of the South Pacific who were students at that time are now civic, educational, and religious leaders in their communities. Brother and Sister Anderson (Helen Woodruff Anderson) will assume their duties at Wellington during the latter part of August. Sister Anderson, Photograph by W. B. Mendenhall CITY OF WELLINGTON ON NORTH ISLAND, NEW ZEALAND Page 656 Photograph by W. B. Mendenhall WAITAKI RIVER, SOUTH ISLAND, NEW ZEALAND who was serving as the Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society at the time of ker husband's call to the mission presidency, will be the new president of the New Zealand South Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Scene on the West Coast of South Island, New Zealand," is reproduced from a photograph by Wendell B. Mendenhall. See also "Recipes From the New Zealand South Mission," supplied by Wealtha S. Mendenhall, page 666. --_< Hom ecom ing Florence A. Clark The mountain has not changed its hump, Its scars of white, its spurs of green, And still the yellow aspen climb Along its ridge to heights unscen. The little town now sprawls around The mountain's everlasting base, Yet still I find withim its walls The solace of a blessed place. Far better to return than leave, And going home is full of grace In autumn when a golden wish Brings back a long-remembered face. Page 657 Practical Nursing, a Dignified Lifetime Career Maria Johnson, R. N., BS. Utah State Consultant for Practical Nurse Education Formerly Head of Department of Practical Nursing, Central Utah Vocational School, Provo, Utah Director of Nursing Service and School of Nursing, Dr. W. H. Grove's Latter-day Saints Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah MONG vocations for women, practical nursing has forged ahead as one with a future that offers income, security, and great satisfaction. Today there are two general types of nurses providing nursing care in hospitals and health agencies, the professional or registered nurse and the trained practical nurse. This trained practical nurse is not to be confused with the practical nurse of yesterday, who may have completed a short course in nursing or may have been untrained, having picked up some nursing skills as she cared for her own family or gave a helping hand to a neighbor. Many factors in our society have combined to make -an_ increased number of nurses, both professional and practical, essential to the health of our communities and nation. 'Today there are 430,000 active registered nurses, yet 50,000 more are needed. A recent survey showed two and one-half million people, one out of every sixty Americans, receiving some kind of nursing care daily. To help solve the vital need for nurses, practical nursing schools have been established. These schools provide an approved educational program in which the student is prePage 658 pared to share in the care of the sick, in rehabilitation, and in the prevention of illness. Upon graduation she takes her place as a highly respected member of the health team, working with and under the supervision of a registered nurse or doctor, in providing nursing care in hospitals, in homes, in doctors' offices, and in public health agencies. She is prepared for her job and has the confidence of the public and those with whom she works. These approved schools, unknown before World War II, now number 500 and every state and territory has a licensing law. The National Association for Practical Nurse Education, the National League for Nursing, the American Nurses' Association, and the United States Office of Education have worked together to promote sound educational programs. Standards have been set up and curriculum guides prepared to help the schools meet basic requirements for preparing practical nurses to take their place on the nursing team. Most of these programs are for twelve full months. A few require eighteen months. The confidence the public has come to have in these graduates, is demonstrated by an Act of Congress in 1956, which made financial help available to states to expand and improve practical nursing schools. These programs also have the approval of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. 'The General Board has always been deeply interested in helping meet the nursing needs of society. For many years it sponsored nursing courses to prepare women for nursing in the home, and it also provided a loan fund to encourage those who wished to enroll in a professional nursing school. It is now giving 100 per cent support to our approved schools, and in many areas has encouraged recruitment of students as an important Relief Society project. If one wants to be a trained practical nurse she must choose a school approved by the accrediting board for nursing in the state. Accreditation by the National Association for Practical Nurse Education will add stature to the program. Correspondence courses are not approved. Upon completion of the course the student takes the state licensing examination, and if she passes successfully, she will receive a certificate entitling her to practice in the state as a Licensed Practical Nurse. Some states use the title Licensed Vocational Nurse. Licensure is not only a certificate of achievement for the nurse; but, more important, it protects the public from the incompetent by certifying the person is qualified for her work. Only graduates of approved schools may take the licensing examination. HESE schools are open to women (some to men) seventeen to fifty vears of age. Practical nursing provides many opportunities for the voung high school graduate who does not plan to go to college and to thousands of qualified women in the older age brackets. High school graduation is not required of the mature woman who mav_ have dropped out of high school for martriage or other reasons, vet who is intelligent and brings to nursing a wealth of expericnce and mature understanding. 'The educational background of students in these programs will vary from two vears of high school to college graduation. Today there are numerous women in the prime of life who either need or desire employment. Some may need to earn a living, others are seeking an outlet for their interests and abilities. Whether the practical nurse is a young girl or a mature woman, she is finding her chosen vocation to be varied and challenging. One year of intensive training in an approved school has prepared her for state licensing and opened the door to a dignified lifetime career. Above all else she is finding her richest reward—satisfaction and happiness that come from knowing that she is needed. A list of approved schools for Practical Nursing may be obtained from: National Association for Practical Nurse Education, 654 Madison Avenuc, New York 21, N. Y., or Committee on Careers in Nursing, 2 Park Avenue, New York 16, N. Y. PRACTICAL NURSING, A DIGNIFIED LIFETIME CAREER 659 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMEN OF ALL NaTIONsS" THE GENERAL CONFERENCE: The sermons and instructions during the conference have been particularly spiritual in their character.... The great need of faith in God has been one of the strong points in all the teaching given, and the need of a living and abiding testimony of the truth of the gospel as revealed in this last dispensation... And the future awaiting those who remained faithful.... A feeling of serenity and of faith abides with the saints.... —Editorial THE SILK INDUSTRY: Ages have demonstrated that immense wealth has been produced by sericulture. 'The Chinese and Japanese date back thousands of years the existence of this wonderful industry which has furnished the most costly and ornamental clothing the world has ever worn, even royalty itself owes its richness of attire. To a worm so forbidding to some of our more refined ladies, as to become repulsive to the sight. And yet this worm is the producer of all the silk in the world. —Elizabeth Packard ETERNITY... Still on in the dim prospective, in the solemn march of time, We read the story of Light and Love struggling up to a height sublime. Eternity looms before us: Shall Humanity's dream come true? Ah, yes, for the trend of the Soul mounts on with deathless life in view! —Ruby Lamont SUMMIT STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Counselor Ruth M. Pack addressed the sisters, advising them to build good granaries and lay up wheat... Work in the time thereof then your duties will be easy. Get the Spirit of God, have your lamps trimmed and burning, that you may be prepared for whatever is before you. It is a grand thing to be a Latter-day Saint. We have to do our work in this dispensation to prepare for the future... —Mary L. Woolstenhulme, Sec. PUBLIC SPEAKER: When you talk or read to a congregation... Don't hide your face behind a book or down in your hands, but lift up your head so that your voice may go out clear and distinct to the hearers. —(Mrs.) Dr. E. S. Barney A WOMAN EDITOR AND PUBLISHER: Mrs. Ellen Louise Demorest, founder of Demorest's Monthly Magazine, died recently in New York City. Mrs. Demorest had been actively engaged for many years in philanthropic and temperance work and in publishing the magazine and other literary and fashionable periodicals. —News Note Page 660 OUR women have been selected by Queen Elizabeth, with the approval of her ministers, to take their seats in the House of Lords in November 1958: Dame Katherine Elliott, fifty-five, former delegate to the United Nations and Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Child Care for Scotland; Barbara Frances Wootton, sixty-one, economist, former professor of social studies, University of London; Baroness Ravensdale, sixty-two, VicePresident of the National Association of Girls' Clubs and Mixed Clubs; Stella, Dowager Marchioness of Reading, sixty-three, founder of the Women's Voluntary Service for Civil Defense. The Marchioness of Reading visited Salt Lake City in June and was entertained at a reception by the General Board of Relief Society in the Relief Society Building. ERTHA MAHONEY MILLER and Elinor Whitney Field are editors of Caldecott Medal Books: 1938-1957, which give biographical sketches, with delightful illustrations by the illustrators of children's books who have received the annual Caldecott medal for the picture book judged most distinguished by the Children's Library Association. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. DEAN LEFEVRE, of Panguitch, Utah, who supervises the school lunch program for Garfield County school district, was the 1957 national winner of the American School Food Service Association award. She was cited for making "the most outstanding contribution to the goals of the school lunch program in a local situation." Leftover government commodities, such as dried eggs, peanut butter, and canned figs were going begging— disliked by the children. Mrs. Lefevre supplied recipes to use them all in puddings, cookies, and breads. RS. GITA SHENOUDA is the first Egyptian woman to practice interior decoration. She studied her profession for four years in New York City and upon her return to her native land, she participated with her husband in many decorating projects before accepting assignments for herself. D*: SUAD AL-KASSAB is the first Iraqi woman to hold a Ph. D. Degree in bio-chemistry. A homemaker and an excellent cook, Mrs. Al-Kassab combines these activities with her work as a faculty member at the Institute of Medical Research in Bagdad. Page 661 EDITORIAL c~©2 VOL. 45 OCTOBER 1958 NO. 10 Children in Relief Society ARY sat in Relief Society meeting with David on her lap. Her two daughters were in the Relief Society nursery, but Mary wanted to keep David with her as he was still afraid of strangers. Last time she had left him in the nursery, he had been upset for the rest of the day. Mary had chosen her seat carefully in the back so David could stand down if he wished, and not disturb the other sisters. Most of them, though, smiled at David and seemed to enjoy seeing him. After Relief Society, Sister Parker drove Mary and the three children home. "We are so happy that you bring your children and come to Relief Society," Sister Parker confided. "We know it must be quite a rush for you to get them ready and walk over with them." Mary gave a retrospective sigh. "Yes, it is, but I always learn so much in Relief Society and I love to meet with the women of the ward. While I iron I think about what is said at the meeting and it really helps me.... It spurs me on to study," Mary confessed. "It seems, I need something to make me take the time to keep studying. I could spend all my time in housework and taking care of the children —then reading something frothy. Now I read the lesson before I go to meeting and that gives me the urge to read something worthwhile when I have a chance. Page 662 "The thing that worries me, though, is keeping David with me when they have a nursery. I'm afraid some of the sisters think I should not bring him into the meeting. He is just at the age, though, when he isn't happy unless he stays with me.' Sister Parker did not speak for a minute or two. When she did she seemed to be reliving an experience of the past. "As long as you take David out when he fusses or cries, as you always do, I'm sure his little sounds or walking by your chair do not interfere with the sisters hearing and paying attention to the class leaders. The nursery is provided for the children, but when a mother has a reason, perhaps known only to herself, why she doesn't wish to place her child in the nursery, I'm sure the sisters are understanding." "They always seem very friendly," Mary admitted. "I get so much from being in Relief Society and not worrying over David. Nan and Susan are happy in the nursery," Mary glanced at the two girls in the back seat, "and next year I think David will be, too." Sister Parker urged, "It is my experience that it is important for a young mother with children to attend Relief Society. I remember a dear friend, Jane, many years ago. Her husband was forced to be away from his family very much because of the nature of his business. I noticed that Jane was beginning to Ii 4602 EDITORIAL say that Jim was no longer in love with her, and Jim's work began to suffer because of Jane's attitude. "One day I went over and told Jane I was coming the next week to take her and the children to Relief Society. In those days there were no nurseries and all four children sat in the meeting with us. Jane kept the baby, and the oldest boy took care of himself, looking at books. I tried to take playthings and crackers to keep the two middle ones quiet." Sister Parker laughed reminiscently. "It was quite a chore sometimes. If either of them became too noisy, Jane would take her out with the baby, so I managed to remain in the meetings most of the time. "After a few weeks it seemed to me that the spirit of Relief Society was working on Jane. From friendships she made with women her age, she was finding out that many other husbands were absent from the home a great deal, not only on business but on Church duties as well. Jane began to see that other wives were having similar experiences and managing willingly and cheerfully. Then Jane's talent for remodeling was discovered, and soon she was kept busy helping other mothers with sewing. She became a pillar SALT LA. KE E "ITUTE OF RELIGION SOUTH joan wisedd ROAD $4107 vp 663 of our Relief Society," Sister Parker recalled, "and felt wanted and needed. "After a few months Jim called on me and confided that he felt I had saved his marriage. " "Tt wasn't I, [ assured him, it was Relief Society.' He often afterward bore testimony to what Relief Society had meant to their marriage." Mary turned a grateful face toward Sister Parker as they drew up in front of her home. "I'm glad I don't have to overcome the feeling Jane had, but what you have said will help me anyway. I won't let the feeling I have about keeping David with me, deprive me of the blessing of Relief Society. Sometimes I've been tempted to drop out until the children would be in school. [ll just have more faith that the sisters will understand and keep on with the scramble to take them with me. Thank you for your encouragement and kindness, Sister Parker," Mary concluded. ""With mother so far away you are a real strength to me. "Be seeing you next week," she called back hurriedly, as Nan and Susan ran whooping around the corner out of sight. —M. C. 5S. —> Hesse rt Maude Rubin When every barley-field's a lemon pie, Its yellow sweetness level in the sun— Meringue of clouds fluffed white across the sky, And fluted hills crust-brown, then summer's done! Gladys Sesstons Boyer Released From the General Board T is with regret that the General Board announces the release of Sister Gladys S. Boyer from the General Board of Relief Society due to the call and appointment in July of President and Sister Boyer to be president and matron of the London Temple. Sister Boyer was appointed to the General Board z Relief Society on March 18, 1953, and has served valiantly on many committees, particularly the Work Meeting, Short Story and Poem Committees, and Special Programs. She also has given service as a General Board representative for many years on community sponsored organizations. Sister Boyer has brought strength to the board in her understanding of Relief Society in both stake and mission, since she formerly was president of the British Mission Relief Society and the Kolob Stake Relief Society. She has fulfilled every assignment which has been given to her on the board faithfully and well. The sisters in the stakes whom Sister Boyer has served so devotedly join with the General Board in wishing her great joy in her important new calling. Danger— Curve Ahead A sleek, soft-purring convertible, a pretty girl, a handsome boy—or a carful of both—and an open road. What could be more thrilling, more desirable to the young and the young in heart! This is a typical picture of young America today. And there's nothing wrong with the picture, no cause for concern. Or is there? Yes, there are hazards ahead — physical and moral hazards. First, let's look at the newspapers. Here are typical headlines from just one issue: "Traffic claims three... All killed instantly in separate Sunday accidents." "A predawn race between two cars ended in the death of a teenager here when one of the cars went out of control on a curve...." These were not problem children: a high school senior about to graduate; a clean-cut companion, active in Church, athletics. Promising futures for these youngsters — until they failed to take the curve! Then there are the other kind of curves too often associated with young people and automobiles: the curves of temptation, on or off the highway, which too often bring tragedy and spiritual and moral death to America's youth, curves which may throw you headlong into a spiritual or moral collision. So, young people of the Church, watch those road signs on life's fastmoving highway: "Caution," "Narrow Bridge," "Crossing," "Curve Ahead." Page 664 DANGER—CURVE AHEAD 665 So—slow down! TIced before you speed. It's your highway, your car, your hazard. You hold the steering wheel. You control the throttle. It's your life to live usefully or to spend recklessly; your life to save or lose. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF DANGER curves ahead! A; ¥ / Be Honest with Yourself Recipes trom. The Tlew. CLoealand South, Tilission Submitted by Wealtha S. Mendenhall TRIFLE SUPREME 14 c. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla pinch of salt "% c. Ginger ale 1% tbsp. Corn flour (cornstarch) % c. Blanched, sliced almonds 1% c. Milk raspberry jam 1 two-layer, eight-inch sponge cake fruit (pineapple, passion fruit, or a 1 egg banana) 1 tbsp. Butter % pt. Whipped cream Mix in double boiler the sugar, salt, corn flour (cornstarch), and milk. Cook until thick, stirring often. Beat the egg and add to a portion of mixture. Then add this mixture to remaiming mixture and blend all together well. Cook one minute, stirring constantly. Remove from heat, add butter and vanilla. Cool. Have ready two layers of sponge cake, and spread each generously with raspberry jam. Place one layer in deep serving dish and moisten with ginger ale, then cover with half of the custard mixture. Arrange a layer of fruit over the custard. Pineapple, passion fruit, or a banana would be delicious. Sprinkle the fruit with blanched sliced almonds. Spread with whipped cream. Place the other layer of sponge cake on top and repeat with the ginger ale, custard, fruit, almonds, and whipped cream. WHoOLE-WHEAT SCONES % c. White flour 1 tsp. Syrup (light) % tsp. Salt % c. Warm water 4 tsp. Baking powder (level) 1 egg (optional) 1% c. Whole-wheat flour milk, as directed 2 tbsp. Butter Sift into bowl the white flour, salt, and baking powder. Add the whole-wheat flour. Different proportions of white and whole-wheat flour may be used. Add the butter and rub in with tips of fingers. Place syrup in a cup and add warm water. Fill the cup with milk and mix. Pour into flour and form into a soft dough. A little more milk may be necessary. An egg may replace some of the milk and make a lighter dough. Roll into a piece about one inch thick and cut into desired size. Bake from ten to twelve minutes in a very hot oven on a greased cookie sheet. HoMEMADE YEAST % c. Hops (generous) ¥% c. Plus 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 pt. Water % c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt (scant) % Ib. Potatoes Simmer hops and water together for forty-five minutes. Strain and when lukewarm add salt, sugar, and flour. Stir to a smooth thin paste. Put in two-quart bottle and cover. Keep in warm place for two days, stirring occasionally. Boil potatoes until well done and then mash and add to the hops mixture. Leave until next day, stirring occasionally. Page 666 Hop Breap For Sponge: 8 oz. Homemade veast mixture (above) 1 tsp. Salt ¥% pt. Water (lukewarm) 24 oz. Flour 2 tbsp. Sugar For Dough: 45 oz. Flour Mix im bowl the homemade yeast, water, flour (24 02), salt, and sugar to make a sponge. Let the sponge remain in bowl until it bubbles and is double in amount. Then add m a center hole in the sponge mixture the additional flour (48 02). Add enough watcr to make a dough of all the flour. Knead well on a board (10 minutes). Add more flour if necessary. Put back in bowl, cover, and keep in warm place until it rises again to double the amount. Knead well again and place in loaf pans. Let rise until double in amount again and bake in hot oven at 400° for fifteen minutes, then lower heat to 350° for forty-five minutes. JL. Suckeate to the Quilting Chairman Colleen Pinegar With their thimbles all poised Of the tacks and the pins, That permeates the room, And finally she wins. As these housewives do assemble, She surveys what she's done, "TI wonder who has been here first Or have been, or hope to be, —<— ast Cum pfire Elsie McKinnon Strachan The last of autumn burns here: Crackle of golden stubble, Crimson of sumac's flame, Sun on the fruit-sweet bough; Here, where our fire burns bright, Smoke-quills lazily pencil The last farewells... While we Bask in the flickering now. RECIPES FROM THE NEW ZEALAND SOUTH MISSION As work day begins And the ladies start to come, For the task that's to be done, There's a very special feeling Leaving home their mop and broom. The quilt's so very beautiful, And you can hear the sisters say, To pin it up this way." Yes, someone had been there Long before they came, 667 To make sure it would be ready For work day's quilting game. She wages the battle She struggles and stretches Then with her task completed, And, rubbing her pricked fingers, Hopes it pleases everyone. So, if you're a quilting chairman, May we offer appreciation And our gratitude to thee. Silent Carillons Mabel Law Atkinson IANE Tyler smiled warmly as she wrote the words: Yes, dearest Sis, I'm very sure I'm doing the right thing. Very, very sure. I know it must seem rather queer to you, and I can just hear you saying to your Fred, "Imagine! A schoolteacher who has taught for twenty-five years falling in love like a schoolgirl!" I don't blame you, Suzanne darling, not a bit, but if you will think of me as a schoolgirl grown up, it will seem perfectly normal and proper, will it not? Anyway it's true, so wish me joy. You may even congratulate me when you write. I can see no reason why not. Don't you think a girl or woman who gets a good husband, should be congratulated? Please answer the minute you get this, for since you can't come to my wedding, I would like you to write me my first letter addressed to Mrs. Richard Nordley. I must close. Someone is knocking, and I think it is Richard. Ae IANE smiled as she opened the door. It was not Richard, but her brother 'Tom who entered and took her in his arms. For a few moments neither spoke, then he held her at arm's length, saying, "Now let me take a look at you." He scrutinized her a few seconds, then said, "Why, you're downright beautiful, Diane. You're in love, that is certain. He better be good enough, is all I have to say." He was smiling broadly. "Oh, he is, 'Tom! Just wait till you meet him which should be very soon. You might even decide he is too good for me." Tom continued, "Diane, I want you to know that I appreciate the care and love you so unselfishly gave Mother in her declining years. I Page 668 MOOK am proud as proud to be your brother. I repeat, Richard better be good." Tears threatened to overflow as Diane whispered, "Thank you, Tom. He is good." The doorbell rang again, and Richard was admitted. Diane's eyes were shining as the two men shook hands after her introduction. Turning to Tom she said, "Will he do?" Still holding Richard's hand, he answered, "Yes, Diane, he will do." Then his eyes met Richard's again and he spoke to him, "And that is saying a lot for you, for this is a wonderful girl you're getting. I couldn't begin to tell you all the reasons why everyone who knows her loves her, but will simply state that she is not just a teacher, but a mother-teacher. She has taken a motherly interest in every child she has taught. At times she has supplied the money needed for tonsil operations, eye examinations, and glasses, for toys, and even food, and for the higher education of some who would otherwise not have been able to continue their schooling. And she has financed missions for two of her boys as she calls them. You would be surprised how many of her children call her blessed." Tom turned to Diane and smiled, "There, I'll say no more. I just thought your Richard should know." "Thanks, Tom." Diane's voice was almost a whisper. Richard was deeply touched. "T am grateful you told me, but am not surprised. Jama very lucky man, I know." He drew Diane to him as he spoke. SILENT CARILLONS AN hour later, alone in her room, Diane sat looking at her mother's wedding picture in its frame on her dresser. In the pregnant silence she spoke softly as she would have done had her mother been present. "Little Mother, there is much I have to say to you tonight. You look so young and happy with your John, as you always spoke of Father. I know your happiness now, for after tomorrow I shall be able to say "My Richard,' for he will be mine forever. Yes, Mother, I know he is Mary's, too. You loved Mary, Mother, remember? I shall not try to take her place in Richard's life, but to make a place of my own, and Richard's love is big and strong and tender enough for both of us and for his children. "Just think, Mother, at last I shall have children! How I have yearned for them as Suzanne's have come to her. Now I shall have five to mother, and the youngest is only three! How I shall love them! "Remember how you often expressed regret that you allowed me to stay home with you that winter you were so ill? You said had I kept on with my college work uninterrupted, I might have met the man and married. I did have a wonderful time that first year, didn't I, with three proposals! But remember, Mother, I have never regretted for a moment that year I had home 669 with you. Such a sweet companionship as we had! And I'm glad for each year since that I had you with me while I have been teaching. "Mother, I want you to know I have not been cheated. Richard is worth waiting for, and, while waiting, I have helped to mold the plant minds of youth in the pattern they should go. My life has not been barren of love, for I have had the love and confidence of manv mothers' children. Of course, I've wondered at times and even feared that life was passing me by, but I have been spared all bitterness by understanding and loving the children who had mothers, vet needed mothering. 'There are many such children, Mother, and J may vet have a child of my own,' Diane's voice was so low she could hardly hear it herself, as she continued, "Do you recall, Mother, the time you said, "You are a good girl, Diane, and your happiness will come, sure as sure'? It has come, Mother, and I feel young and girlish, not at all like an old maid. I feel as young and beautiful within as you look. Good night Mother. Good night." In Diane's dream she was wafted away to a quict, blue lagoon where Richard and five children were waiting for her. Even in her dream she realized that God's spirit had been guiding her craft. > Hands Enola Chamberlin Hfands of youth are palms and fingers, Not yet glorified by duty. Hands of age have met the challenge, Have become incarnate beauty. You Can Sew VIUL—Setting in Sleeves Jean R. Jennings UTTING in a sleeve is one of the most important techniques in making a dress, suit, or coat, and should be done with great care. It is not difficult to do nght if one understands the principles involved and if certain important rules are followed. Before a sleeve is pinned in, the blouse must fit satisfactorily so that the armhole sets well. If there is any fitting fault in the area of the armhole, it will become more obyious when the sleeve is set in. The ease at the lower part of the armhole should be approximately the same front and back when viewed from the side. With the arm down, the lowest point at the underarm seam should be about % inch below the armpit, so that the armhole seam allowance will not bind. A normal set-in sleeve cannot be set lower than this without causing both sleeve and dress to pull when the arm is raised. On a basic or average sleeve, the center vertical line is placed on the lengthwise grain (Figure 1). 'The girth line is the top circumference of the sleeve, and front and back corners a and e normally fall on the same crosswise thread. When the sleeve is set in, this should be in a level line at the lowest point of the armhole. The cap of the sleeve is the section above the girth line. The width of the cap refers to the widest part on the top of the arm (bd). When setting in the sleeve, the seam line of the armscye (armhole, the tip edge of the sleeve cap) fits Page 670 the seam line of the armhole of the garment. 'The lower half of the front armscye line of the sleeve is curved more deeply than the back to provide for easy movement (Figure 2). Sleeves which fit at the wrist require extra length over the elbow to allow for fitting the arm. Care must be taken when fitting to have this extra fullness come exactly where the elbow bends. To hang properly, a sleeve must be perfectly balanced from front to back. Variations in bone structure or posture may lead to some change in the balance points on the armhole of the pattern. This must be adjusted in the fitting process. When pinning the sleeve in place, preparatory to basting or stitching, remember that the top center point marked on the sleeve matches a normally placed shoulder seam. 'lhe underarm seams of the sleeve and garment should be matched. 'To get the sleeve in the correct armhole, match the notches of the sleeve to those of the armhole as marked on the pattern. Fitted sleeves are always designed from 1 to 2% inches larger than the armhole. This is done to allow room in the sleeve cap for the fullness and movement of the upper arm. 'The sleeve fullness must be adjusted and eased in. Remember that the lengthwise center of the sleeve must hang straight down from the tip of the shoulder and also that the girth line must remain level. Easing the extra fullness of the sleeve cap into the armhole of the << FRONT CAP ~ (6 GIRTH ——_ LENGTHWISE GRAIN CENTER LENGTHWISE Figure 1 Figure 2 Comparing the front and back of a basic A sleeve, showing lengthwise grain, girth, set-in sleeve pattern. And cap width and height. Dress may be done in different ways. One of the easiest methods is with the use of pins, placed at the scam yt "I ¢ line so that they point toward the \. Eh [ Aiz25? 7 bottom of the sleeve (Figure 3). Ee: ewe Match all notches and markings. = vA Y Holding the sleeve toward you, place ee i pins at notches, underarm, and ae Ee shoulder seams. 'The lengthwise xr re center of the slecve must hang ' i straight down from the tip of the. T shoulders. '\ / Keep the armhole edge stretched ~ ag tight and be sure to take out the Ba iji full seam allowance on both sleeve and armscye at all times, except Figure 3 where changes have been made for Showing placement of pins to ease out purposes of fitting. Place pins as fullness. YOU CAN SEW VIII — SETTING IN SLEEVES 671 672 close together as is necessary to ease out all fullness and make the sleeve lie flat. Baste carefully before removing pins and then check the fit of the sleeve before stitching. When the sleeve has been properly fitted, stitch close to the basting line but never inside it, keeping the sleeve side up. Care must be taken not to allow small tucks to creep in under the presser foot during the stitching process. When the sleeve has been stitched in place, the seam around the armRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 hole must be pressed. For the first step press from the inside. Having the sleeve cap toward you, press around the seam edge and into the cap, shrinking out as much as possible of the fullness that has been eased in. Both seam edges are kept together. Next turn to the right side. 'Turn both seam allowances toward the sleeve and press very lightly over the tailor's ham to give the rounded appearance necessary to all fitted sleeves. _ Baking Day Vesta N. Lukei The kitchen smells of morning dew Upon the waiting earth, And gentle springtime rain that stirred Each hidden seed's rebirth. The kitchen smells of summer sun, And fragrant wheat in fields That held the warmth of season's gold For richest harvest yields. The kitchen smells of grain-sweet winds. Here spring and summer stay Like captured treasure, like magic yeast, On every baking day. Srrataim Average Attendance at Literature Meetings in Annual Report, August 1958, page 535 Attention is called to the correct figures for this report: Average Attendance at Meetings 1957 Number Per cent Literature 64,488 a 1956 Number Per cent Increase 60,803 35-2 3,685 "Not to the Swift"' CHAPTER 4 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Julie Markham and her widowed mother live in Chicago, where Julie is studying music. Near the end of her work at the school, Julie is offered a scholarship in New York City, which her mother expects her to accept. However, Professor Craig Carlson, one of the teachers at the school has asked Julie to marry him and go out West to live. Julie promises to marry Craig. PRING was a series of showers that turned every growing thing into a profusion of green buds and leaves. 'The damp was everywhere, but it was not yet hot. Craig and Julie ate their lunches on the rocks along the beaches of Lake Michigan. Craig was busy preparing for his recital, but there was time for long, lazy walks along the paths bordering the lake while he and Julie made plans. Julie had promised her mother to talk to Professor Rossi about the scholarship. After all, he had recommended her most highly. She could not delay too long in mailing back her decision, for someone else surely would receive the opportunity most happily. Julie had been working with Professor Rossi on Handel's Semele, "Oh, Sleep! Why Dost Thou Leave Me?" How she loved this stately music of Handel. Professor Rossi leaned back in his chair with his hand shading his eyes. His head ached slightly, and his wife would be most irritated if he were late getting out to the house. They were having week-end guests, and he was tired before the week-end even began. Neither he nor his wife had expected that he would end up giving endless lessons to an endless number of young people who were as egotistical in their assumption of talent and genius as he had once been himself. He rubbed his temple ever so gently with the tips of his long fingers. 'There had been all the preliminary concerts of promise, the good reviews.... What had happened to him? 'There were just too many of them, perhaps, all struggling to reach the top. 'This girl's voice was fluent, and she had a, how would you say it? A spiritual quality that was unusual. She had good technical background also, He felt for an aspirin, but they were in his other jacket. He glanced at his watch. He was tired of hurrying. 'The house was too far away from the campus, but it had been easier letting his wife have her way.... The lesson was over; surely the girl was not going to keep him longer. She had her scholarship, what else? "Dr. Rossi, Mother insists that I talk this over with you before I decline the scholarship. You know that Craig Carlson and I.... You know about his accepting the teaching position in Bradley...." Dr. Rossi was preparing his brief case for going home. He had wondered about that engagement. Naturally he had assumed she would not hesitate to wait a few years before marrying, now that she had the scholarship. He looked a little more closely at the girl. Well, the world was full of surprises. 'The Mama was the one to worry about. His own Mama had been so full of Page 673 674 ambition for him. Perhaps too much ambition made for unhappiness. This blossom of a girl was asking him to solve her problems. He could laugh at that, all right. No, he would give her no comfort; let each one decide for himself. Julie watched Dr. Rossi hurry down the stairs. She was going to wait for Craig. She leaned against the bannister and felt nostalgic about leaving the old music building in such a short time. Poor Dr. Rossi. He seemed such an unhappy man. Craig would never be like that. Craig loved teaching. Craig was really interested in other people. Well, she had kept her promise to her mother. It had been awful for a moment. She thought Dr. Rossi might have been really provoked about her decision, but he had seemed quite indifferent at the end. A door slammed somewhere, and the sound of Craig's feet was on the stairs. She held the back of her hand against her throat for a moment. He must be able to see her heart beating there, she thought. In a moment he was at her side, and hand in hand they left the building behind them. RAIG'S parents came for the graduation and took many pictures. Julie's mother snapped her and Craig. Julie wanted colored film of Craig, for his gown had the beautiful hood signifying a doctor's degree in music. Julie was delighted with Craig's family. They seemed the most natural people in the world, and she felt at home with them immediately. They came to the Markham's for dinner, and Julie's mother agreed that they were very fine people. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 "What else could Craig's parents be?" Julie asked happily. They had driven East, and were prepared to take Julie and Craig and Julie's mother back in the car. Julie and her mother sat preparing for the trip. "Tt will be so crowded, I'm afraid," Julie's mother said. "Besides I'm not sure that I can get away from the office right now." Julie looked dismayed. "Why, Mother, you have your vacation time coming for this year. You know you have." Mary Markham was stitching a pink wool skirt for Julie's trousseau. She didn't look up from her sewing. "Oh, Julie, I hope you aren't making the wrong decision. I think you ought to wait at least a year or two. Give your talent a chance. See what you can do. 'There just isn't the kind of money paid _ professional singers back West that you can get in the East, nor the opportunities. Don't you want to have a career, Julie?" "But, Mother, I will be having a career. I'll be Craig's wife, and we both love music. We'll have that to share the rest of our lives. I'm not going to quit using my voice simply because I'm _ getting married." "Julie, I'm afraid there are many frustrations ahead for you that you won't open your eyes to now." Julie picked up some bastings and rolled them in her finger. "Mother, you aren't saying that you aren't going to the temple to see us martied? I couldn't stand it if you weren't to witness my wedding; I'm your daughter...." "Julie, Julie." Mary Markham wiped the tears from her eyes. "I'm afraid to leave on a vacation right "NOT TO THE SWIFT" now. I'm afraid the firm will find that they can get along very well without me. I tried to sound Mr. Thayer out about it, and he was very negative about leaving now. He thought this was an unwise time because we're unusually busy. I usually take my vacation in July, you know. I have to go on supporting myself, darling. Besides you'll have Craig's parents, and they have many relatives. We have a few out there ourselves, you know, on your Daddy's side. You'll be so busy at first, but later you can look them up. Daddy would like that... "' Mary's voice trailed into silence and Julie realized her mother would not be there. Me OK Ke Ok a and Craig were married on a lovely June morning, and a small reception was held later for them in Craig's home. If only Mother could have been here for all of this, everything would have been perfect, Julie thought. Bradley had snow-covered peaks as a backdrop, even though it was well into June. The college itself sprawled down lawn-covered _hillsides. Some of the buildings were old yellow brick with climbing green ivy, and then there was a part of the campus that was new. Julie was glad the music building was still part of the older campus. Craig drove Julie out to his grandmother's old house. "We can live here if we like until we get ours built. If you don't like it, there are apartments and houses nearer the campus we can rent. 'The only advantage to this old place is that it would be rent free, and I always liked the scenery around here." 675 Julie looked out of the high, narrow windows. Pine trees were visible on the near mountains, and a hemlock stood almost before the front door. "IT like the scenery, too," Julie agreed. 'The lawn was big, and in the distance a swing dangled forlornly under an apple tree. "Mother said she'd help with painting and stuff. She hasn't really liked to rent the house after Grandma died, and nobody seems to want to buy such an old-fashioned place. Do you want to see the bedrooms upstairs?" They went arm in arm up the stairs. Everything was narrow about the house except the stairs. Julie slid her hand along the gleaming bannister. 'The wood was beautiful. If the walls were taken out between the front parlor and the dining room, there would be a lovely, huge room. And if that big old kitchen could somehow be made into a dining room, and that pantry into a small modern kitchen,... Julie smiled at herself. Was there ever anyone who was less prepared to make a practical wife than she? Thank goodness, she had learned to cook a little. It would be wonderful to move into their own house. Not that she minded staying with Craig's folks, she added hurriedly to herself. 'They were wonderful, but it would be fun to start taking care of her own home. 'The bedrooms were small and narrow, with high ceilings, but there were four of them. They stood in the larger master bedroom in the front of the house looking out at the pines. "Well, what do you think?" Craig unlocked the casement and opened 676 the window. Meadow larks trilled distantly. "I'd love to move in this instant." Julie smiled at him. "But feel the heat, and in the winter it takes a dozen blankets to keep warm. Of course, if we thought we'd be here very long, maybe something could be done about the heating." Craig's eyes were trying to tell her something. "Oh, I'm sure it could." Julie put her arm through his and leaned her head against his shoulder. "Did you stay here much when you were small?" Craig kissed the top of her hair. "Every summer. Grandma would be putting stuff up in bottles all the time I was here. I slept on a feather bed, and the most wonderful smells sent me to sleep and woke me up each morning. I remember...." ULIE wrote her mother about the house. They shopped for a new refrigerator and stove, but there were many things that were left in the house that Julie loved immediately. She spent most of her mornings painting. She and Craig steamed the wallpaper from the front bedroom and painted it first. This was to be their room. Julie loved the four-poster bed, and she polished the wood until it gleamed. She and Craig's mother made a new canopy out of white ruffly nylon and put up new curtains to match. 'Then she and Craig carried up the old walnut secretary that they had refinished from the parlor, and the room was completed. Julie wrote of each detail to her mother. Her mother wrote that she was shipping Julie's wedding present to her. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 "Oh, Craig, she mustn't send me the piano. I know how much haying it has meant to her. It would be almost as if she were giving me up. But the piano was shipped from Chicago and placed in the living room. Julie sent a check to cover the shipping costs, but the check was returned. There was no mention in any of her mother's letters concerning her vacation or when she could come West to visit them. Julie knew her mother had been hurt by her decision to give up the scholarship, but surely relations would soon be normal between them again. "Give your mother time," Craig said gently when Julie expressed her worries. "After all, your mother is behaving much more generously and wisely than her own mother behaved toward her. Write to her about the music department, and about your singing. She's had a disappointment, at least to her way of thinking, and it will be some consolation if she knows you're singing, and people are happier for hearing you." Craig kissed the frown from her forehead and picked up his lunch. He was leaving for his first day of school. Julie followed him to the front door and watched him back the car around and drive slowly down the road. She felt a pang of loneliness. There was the crisp feel of autumn in the air. It would be fun to be at the school today, too. She could hear again the ever-present sound of practicing, the pianos, the scales, the students in the halls between classes. She shut the front door and walked back through the house. She put Craig's dishes in the sink. "NOT TO THE SWIFT" She went out in the hall and looked at herself in the gilt-edged mirror. She was still young and slender and pretty. She still looked like a college student. She went back to the dishes. It was just that she didn't have enough to do. After she'd shined the house up, she would practice until this silly mood passed. She had written glowingly to her mother about singing duets with Craig. Julie sighed. Hey had sung at church; people had been kind and told them how beautiful they thought "Oh, Divine Redeemer" was. That older lady who taught school, Miss Hightowers, had said the arrangement they had used for "Teach Me to Pray" was her favorite. But perhaps her mother had been partly right; there wasn't the same excitement in her music now. Maybe she missed the admiring comments on her voice, the feeling that she had a future. Julie sat at the breakfast table again. -Maybe she just needed to mature a little. She was feeling just a little under the weather, too, and perhaps that depressed her. Or maybe it was the fall. The feeling of autumn in the air always made her think she should be accomplishing things. THERE was a gentle knock at the back door, and Julie opened it quickly. The older woman introduced herself and explained she'd knocked at the front door, but she thought she hadn't been heard. "Come in, Sister Baer, Craig and I have left the doorbell until last because we wanted to think of something special and different that would suit this house." Julie led the way into the living room. "It's beautiful, what you have 677 done to this old house," Sister Baer exclaimed. Julie was so pleased she took her visitor upstairs though only one of the bedrooms was actually finished, but Sister Baer was more than delighted with what they had done. She told Julie of the many times she had been in the house in the past. Julie showed her the bathrooms which were also finished. "Craig used most of his 'T'V savings on these bathrooms, but most of the other redecorating has been very inexpensive because we did it ourselves during the past two, almost three months." Julie and Sister Baer sat down in the living room. "T've come especially to ask you to sing with our Singing Mothers in our Relief Society. I know your lovely voice can be an inspiration to the group." Julie smiled, "I'd love coming, and I'd probably have sung with the group without a special invitation. I love singing so much." Julie leaned back in her chair. She really did feel wretched this morning. She'd have to ask Craig about a doctor. She'd always had such good heaith. Sister Baer was withdrawing a small box from her large knitting bag. "Craig loved my brownics so when he was a youngster; I thought you'd both enjoy a few." Julie thanked her and took the box, and then felt her face grow pale as she followed Sister Baer to the door. Surely the delicious odor of brownies couldn't make her feel this awful. She put them on the table in the hall and waved goodbye. As she came back into the house, a print of Picasso's Maternité hanging 678 in the hall caught her eye. She stood staring at the picture for a long, long moment. She, Julie, was expecting a baby! Of course she was. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 have to wait until he came home. She didn't want to tell anything this wonderful over the phone. She sat down at the piano. After several She knelt down in the hall. "Oh, minutes she began to finger softly thank you, thank you...." She Brahms' beautiful "Wiegenlied." must tell Craig. No, she wouldn't Yes, she would practice the "Lullacall him. She put the receiver back _ by." in the telephone cradle. She would (To be continued) Yulia Sullivan Greene Enjoys Mlany Hobbies A' the age of eighty-nine, Julia Sullivan Greene, Salt Lake City, Utah, still enjoys many of the hobbies which she learned as a young woman. Her greatest joy is genealogical research and temple work, whenever she is able to go to the temple. She has written more than two thousand family group sheets and has participated in thousands of sealings. Her handwork hobbies include quilting, crocheting, and silk and cotton embroidery. As a young woman she was a teacher in a log schoolhouse in Idaho, where she received one dollar a month from each of her twenty pupils as a "'complete" salary. She and her husband established several different homes and wherever a garden spot was available, Mrs. Greene raised flowers and vegetables. She believes that "on a half acre of good ground, one can raise vegetables for a family of six and bottle enough for winter." For many years, Mrs. Greene served as a teacher and executive in the women's auxiliaries of the Church. She loves Relief Society work and reads every Magazine "all the way through." ~ Mrs. Greene has three children of her own and an adopted son. She is grandmother to eight and great-grandmother to one. "I have had a joyous life," she says, "and my husband and I rejoice in our family and in their accomplishments." = Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Ficld" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Photograph submitted by Florence 8. Jacobsen EASTERN STATES MISSION, ALBANY-HUDSON DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, April 26, 1958 Seated in the front row (foreground) at right, right to left, District officers: Helen J. Barton, Secretary-Treasurer, Addie M. Murdock, Second Counselor, Ivinetta R. Oliver, First Counselor; Jean W. Wood, President. Standing in the second row at the right, next to the piano, right to left: Norma R. Spencer, chorister; Norma Maughn, organist. Florence $. Jacobsen, President, Eastern Statcs Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Albany-Hudson District (New York), consisting of five Relief Socicty organizations, is one of ten districts in the Eastern States Mission. Each district Relief Society presents twice a year a complete Relief Society Convention program. At the convention held April 26, 1958, in Albany-Hudson, the Singing Mothers from all the Relief Society organizations practiced in preparation for singing at the Sunday services held during the General Authorities' tour of the mission by President Milton R. Hunter. 'The above picture was taken after they had just finished singing a most beautifully rendered song, at a conference where 353 members and investigators were present. We are grateful for the devotion of the outstanding Singing Mothers groups throughout the Eastern States Mission. They give unselfishly of their time and talents and lift us spiritually with their voices in song. "Sisters from the following Relief Society organizations participated in the chorus: Albany, Schenectady, Poughkeepsie, Kingston, and Newburg." Page 679 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 Photograph submitted by Emma A. Hanks GULF STATES MISSION, NORTH TEXAS DISTRICT, RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Front row, left to right: Emma A. Hanks, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Society; Ruby S. Boles, President, North Texas District Relief Society; Counselors Ethel W. Brothers and Dorothy M. Waldrop; Pauline W. Christian, chorister; Edna S. Henry, organist. Branches represented in the chorus are: Amarillo, Borger, Dumas, Lubbock, Brownfield, Pampa, and Plainview. Photograph submitted by Nina Beth G. Cunningham GOODING STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR THIRTY YEARS OR MORE HONORED AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 10, 1958 These devoted sisters have served from thirty to fifty-two years as visiting teachers. Insert at lower right, left to right: Maria Prescott; Theresa Larsen; Ada Erickson. Front row, seated, left to right: Mary Byington; Martena Jensen; Rosella Jenkins; Hazel Pratt; Flavia Smith; Stella Thompson. Second row, seated, left to right: Lou Stell Peterson; Melba Waters; Flora Chatterton; Leone Grover; Arsula Olsen; Ethel Johnson; Ella Robinson; Emily Redford; Sara Wilde. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 681 Back row, left to right: Lydia Nielsen; Luella Packham; Ada Smith; Edna McClure; Jeanette Chandler; Anna Barrus; Elizabeth Robinson; Ella Huffaker; Jane Hepworth; Maria Hunsaker. Not present when the picture was taken were the following sisters, who have also served more than thirty years as visiting teachers: Maria Prescott, Theresa Larsen, Madeline Hopkin, Elsie Barney, Martha Anderson, Ethel Lewis, Gloria Miller, Effie Lee, Nellie Collings, Hannah Larsen, Ada Erickson, Violet Echolt, Maggie Christensen. Each of the visiting teachers present at the convention was given a lovely souvenir which featured the names of all the visiting teachers in the stake, the wards which they represented, and their periods of service. The souvenir also included the names of the stake and ward Relief Society presidents and printed tributes to visiting teachers. Nina Beth G. Cunningham is president of Gooding Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mildred B. Jarvis MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT STAKE TALENT FESTIVAL, May 8, 1958 Front row at left: Alta Standage, organist; Nathal Fuller, chorister; at right: LaPrele Bond, First Counselor; Mildred B. Jarvis, President. Elaine Steele, Second Counselor, stands at the left in the second row from the back. Sister Jarvis reports: '"This is a group of some of our Singing Mothers who entertained at the Maricopa Stake Talent Festival, May 8, 1958. We had a very successful program of original songs, poems, readings, and essays, representative of talent festivals previously held in the wards. We were so proud of the efforts of our women, old and young. The development of individual talent has been a continuing project with us the last two years. The women are finding joy in responding in song, poetry, etc. As well as in arts, crafts, and handwork. We were proud also of the booths arranged by each ward to display the handiwork, arts, and crafts of their members. Refreshments were served by the stake board." 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Reeve KANSAS CITY STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 1958 Seated at the left on the front row, left to right: Genevieve B. Moore, chorister, and Erma G. Devenport, organist. Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relicf Society, reports that the Singing Mothers sang two numbers in the April stake quarterly conference. All Relief Society members in the stake are urged to sing. Am. Ii Photograph submitted by Mona H. Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), FILER WARD, AND BUHL SECOND WARD OFFICERS AND CLASS LEADERS HONORED AT A LUNCHEON MAY 16, 1958, FOR OUTSTANDING ATTENDANCE RECORDS AT RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS Seated at the table, left to right: Lila Reed and Blanche Elledge of Filer Ward; Priscilla Francis and Clara Morrison of Buhl Second Ward. Back row, standing, left to right: (from Filer Ward) Marie Hess; Wanda Kohntopp; Muriel Damer; Jorene Lee; Mabel Peeke; Mamie Carver; Isabel Wills; Violet Hauser. (From Buhl Second Ward): Dorothy Baggett; Esther Young; Marion Hugentobler; Blanche Cox; Barbara LaPray; Jean Muirhead; Patsy Cox. Mona H. Brown, President, 'Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "This is a picture of the Filer and Buhl Second Ward officers and class leaders who were recent NOTES FROM THE FIELD 683 winners in an attendance contest held by the Twin Falls Stake Relicf Society. At the beginning of the contest six months ago, the Buhl Second Ward had the lowest attendance, and the Filer Ward had the highest. It is intcresting to note that the Buhl Second Ward increased the most of any ward in the stake. And Filer Ward continued to increase and remained the highest. All wards in the stake made a noticeable increase. These two wards were entertained at a luncheon prepared and served by the members of the stake board. Mary Cheney, stake work director, arranged the centerpiece. Which was a small wheelbarrow painted pink and gold, and filled with lilacs and sprayed with gold and filled with miniature ue fie BEN LOMOND STAKF (OGDEN, UTAH) PRESENTS PAGEANT "SHAKESPEARE IN OUR LIVES" AT CLOSING SOCIAL. May 24, 1958 Left to right: Earl B. Cragun. Representing Shakespeare; Connie Huggins as Des. Demona; Grace Marsden as Emilia; Wallace Budge. Representing Hamlet; Lapree 'T avlor as Portia; Jannine Southwick as Nerissa \lso participating were Ann Cr gun as Anne; Marion Berrett as Beth; Bardine Campbell as Cathy. Flcanor T. Nielsen. President. Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society. Reports: 'The pageant, written by Alberta HI. Christensen of the General Board of Relicf Society, was directed by Blanche Burnett. Stake literature class leader, assisted by Mildred Cragun. Stake Education Counselor. The pagcant was presented for the closing social. And for the conclusion of the two-vear course on Shakespeare. To present once more the words of wisdom and phrases we borro\ daily from Shakespeare, also to relive a few great Scenes and soliloquies." 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 Photograph submitted by Erma L. Snowberger WILLAMETTE STAKE (OREGON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 13, 1958 Macie Evans, the chorister, and Erma Gibson, accompanist, are standing in the center, front, left to right. Erma L. Snowberger is president of Willamette Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Pearl A. Heaton CACHE STAKE (UTAH), LOGAN NINTH WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 15, 1958 Lucille S. Binns, President, Logan Ninth Ward Relief Society, reports: "This social was planned around the theme Birthdays. Many novel and original ideas in table decorations were used on the twelve tables, each one arranged to represent a month of the year. The one hundred members and special guests were seated at tables representing their birthday months. 'This idea created a friendly atmosphere and informal conversation as the sisters compared birthdays and enjoyed a delicious turkey dinner prepared by chairman Melba Johnson and the following committee members: Mabel Michaelson, Verna Call, Lucinda Larsen, Rita Raymond, Ruth Mae Watkins, Carma Spencer, Veta Winget, Louise Nebeker, Annie Keetch, and LaPreal McCrary. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 685 "Toasts and tributes to cach month of the year cleverly written in verse by Carma Spencer were given by Margaret Wooliams, Afton Hansen, Elsic Hubbard, LaPreal McCrary, LuGene Sorenson, Luana Merrill, Joy Allen, Emma Fclix, Lois Moser, Sylvia Loosli, Lynette Carter, and Belle Prince. Bonnis Seeholzer delighted the group with three lovely soprano solos. Her accompanist was Lynette Carter. Virginia Lee touched briefly on the true spirit of Relicf Socicty and then introduced Ruth Croff, who related the events and organization of the first Relief Society meeting. Clara Bernston gave an informative review of the history of the Logan Ninth Ward Rclicf Socicty and paid tribute to former presidents who have passed away. "The living past presidents of the ward are: Iris Harris, Ann Call, Pearl Heaton, Mary Noble, Stella Israelson, Helen Hickman, and Lucille Binns. They were presented with gifts and honored with tributes." Pearl A. Heaton is president of Cache Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Alta H. Taylor CALIFORNIA MISSION, YUMA DISTRICT VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, March 15, 1958 Left to right: Bell Miller, oldest Relief Society teacher; Mamie Scott, youngest teacher; Louise Westover, District Relief Society President; Grace Angus, District visiting teacher leader; Tasma Dansie, forty years of service; Henrictta Allen, highest per cent attendance. Alta H. Taylor, former president, California Mission Relicf Society, reports: "This district was organized into the Yuma Stake March 27, 1958, with Louise S$. Westover as stake Relief Society President." Lela Lee Udall is the recently appointed president of the California Mission Relief Society. LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 12—A Message From Him Who Is Eternal Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 19) For Tuesday, January 6, 1959 Objective: religious world. Revelation to Martin Harris REY ELATIONS in The Doctrine and Covenants are better understood if information is known concerning their historical background. Although Section 19 is one of the most important doctrinal revelations received by the Prophet, we do not have specific information about its origin. In other sections of this book of scripture, we have become acquainted with some facts about Martin Harris to whom this revelation was addressed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is apparent from the revelation that the Lord felt the necessity to call Martin to repentance at this time. (See verses 13, 20.) Although he had received the blessing of being one of the Three Witnesses, it appears that he had yet to learn obedience and to be reminded of the suffering which comes from nonrepentance (verse 15). 'The reference in the Page 686 To indicate that by modern revelation the Lord has leavened the last part of verse 20 to the time when the Lord withdrew his spirit from Martin, which caused him to suffer, may have reference to the time when the translated portion of The Book of Mormon was lost. (See D & C Sections 3 and 10.) Important Doctrinal Teachings Although Section 19 has much to say to and about Martin Harris, it is a revelation, among many others, which emphasizes important doctrinal teachings. At the outset there is revealed the truth that Jesus is the Redeemer of the world, the Great I AM or Jehovah, as he was known in the Old Testament. (See verse 1.) Because he did the will of the Father in becoming the Atoner for mankind, Jesus is able to destroy Satan and his works at the end of the world (verses 2, 3). There follows in this revelation the familiar scriptural standard of LESSON DEPARTMENT judgment: namely, that all men will be judged according to their works. (See D & C 19:3; Revelation 20:13.) But verses 4 through 12 make known an important doctrinal concept of the character of God. The importance of this doctrine is best indicated in the historical background in which it was given. When one knows the beliefs of Joseph Smith's period concerning hell and punishment, he is prepared to understand how the modern Prophet's theological teachings paved the way for a far nobler understanding of God than that conceived by an apostate world. It was not that Joseph Smith had discovered these theological teachings in the Bible, but rather that the Lord revealed them to him. There is another phase of this subject which is important to realize. It is that a change has come about in the Christian world relative to the doctrine of hell and punishment that, sometimes, makes it difficult for some Latter-day Saints of this generation to appreciate fully the message given by the Savior in the First Vision. Some may find it difficult to understand why the Lord would say to the inquiring boy Joseph Smith that he must join none of the churches:.. For they were all wrong, and the personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in Flis sight: that those professors were all corrupt; that "they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men: having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof (D. H. C. 1:6). "Christian" Doctrine Changed That a decided change has come during the past century in Christian 687 thinking relative to hell and punishment is well expressed by George Harris in A Century's Change in Religion. He says that ev erlasting punishment is seldom mentioned in the pulpit now (1914); that "hell" is seldom uttered. The concept of a morally ruined man has come to be considered as the character being debased, rather than of extreme physical suffering. He states that the unquenchable fire, the worm that does not die, are believed to mean corrosion and decay. The "Abominable" Doctrine But when did this new thought arise? Several decades after the days of Joseph Smith, even as late as the last quarter of the nineteenth century, theologians were teaching a doctrine which was an abomination in the Lord's sight. Just what was that doctrine? Some ideas held then and to some extent today were brought to the attention of people in England as well as the United States by the Dean of Canterbury in a series of sermons delivered in Westminster Abbey, November and December 1877. In the Preface to his book Eternal Hope, Dr. F. W. Farrar states that the common view is (1) that at death there is passed upon every impenitent sinner an irreversible doom to endless tortures, either material or mental, of the most awful and unspeakable intensity; and (2) that this doom awaits the vast majority of mankind. In further exposition of these common teachings, the Dean said in one of his five sermons: What the popular notion of hell is, you, my brethren, are all aware. Many of us were scared with it, horrified with Otto Done RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 eS MARTIN HARRIS HOME Wayne County, New York it, perhaps almost maddened by it in our childhood. It is that, the moment a human being dies—at whatever age, under whatever disadvantages—his fate is sealed hopelessly and forever; and that if he die in unrepented sin, that fate is a never-ending agony, amid physical tortures the most frightful that can be imagined; so that, when we think of the future of the human race, we must conceive of "a vast and burming prison, in which the lost souls of millions and millions writhe and shriek for ever, tormented in a flame that never will be quenched." You have only to read the manuals, you have only to study the pictures published, though but rarely, by members of our own Church, and more frequently by Roman Catholics on the one hand, and some sections of Nonconformists on the other, to see that such has been and is the common belief of Christendom. To illustrate the horrible concept of hell as taught in an earlier day, Dean Farrar quotes several examples, among which are these two from Jonathan Edwards: The world will probably (!) be converted into a great lake or liquid globe of fire, in which the wicked shall be overwhelmed, which shall always be in tempest, in which they shall be tossed to and fro, having no rest day or night, vast waves or billows of fire continually rolling over their heads, of which they shall ever be full of a quick sense, within and without; their heads, their eyes, their tongues, their hands, their feet, their loins and their vitals shall for ever be full of a glowing, melting fire, enough to melt the very rocks and elements. Also they shall be full of the most quick and lively sense to feel the torments, not for ten millions of ages, but for ever and ever, without any end at all.... An apostate "Christian" world had gone astray in fostering such teachings concerning eternal punishment and hell (spirit world). It had lost a true understanding of the relationship of God and mankind as a parent-child relationship. 'The understanding of the character of LESSON DEPARTMENT God was perverted by a false concept of his plan for his children. People eventually revolted against this position by even denying the existence of and the power of Satan in the world. (See 2 Nephi, chapter 28.) The Lord's Answer The revelation given for Martin Harris sets forth the Lord's answer to the abominable doctrine described above as a preparation for the preaching of the true doctrine of Christ in this dispensation. Verses 4 through 12 of The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 19 follow: And surely every man must repent or suffer, for I, God, am endless. Wherefore, I revoke not the judgments which I shall pass, but woes shall go forth, weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth, yea, to those who are found on my left hand. Nevertheless, it is not written that there shall be no end to this torment, but it ls written endless torment. Again, it is written eternal damnation; wherefore it is more express than other scriptures, that it might work upon the hearts of the children of men, altogether for my name's glory. Wherefore, I will explain unto you this mystery, for it is meet unto you to know even as mine apostles. I speak unto you that are chosen in this thing, even as one, that you may enter into my rest. For, behold, the mystery of godliness, how great is it! For, behold, I am endless, and the punishment which is given from my hand is endless punishment, for Endless is my name. Wherefore— Eternal punishment is God's punishment. 689 Endless punishment is God's punishment. How do these scriptures give one a concept of punishment and hell which brushes aside the accumulated error of many centuries? In order for man to escape the suffering caused by the misuse of his free agency, he must repent. Punishment for the unrepentant is in accordance with the demand of justice. See verses 15-19; Alma 34:14-16, but the Lord declares that there is an end to "endless torment" (D & C 19:6). In explanation of the use of "endless" and "eternal" in connection with punishment, the Lord explains in verse 7 that these adjectives are more expressive than others to "... Work upon the hearts of the children of men, altogether for my name's glory (D&C 19:7). Then the Lord proceeds to explain further that since these expressions are his name, one should understand that it is his punishment that is administered because of wrongdoing without repentance and, therefore, it is not to be endured forever (Ibid., 19:10-12, 6). In other words, as you read the terms "endless punishment" and "eternal damnation" substitute the word "God's" for "endless" and "eternal" (verse 10). In making this substitution the expressions mean that the punishment one receives following the death of the body is "God's punishment," and "... If is not written that there shall be no end to this torment" (verse 6). Repentance Commanded We are immediately informed in the revelation (D & C 19:15-19) 690 that if one does not repent, one's sufferings will be sore, even so much that one presently would not know of their intensity. A comparison is made with the sufferings of the Savior. The punishment meted out to the wicked, corrupt, and unrepentant of this earth is not the kind taught by an apostate religious world. What did the Prophet Joseph Smith say was the punishment of the wicked? Here is his answer: There is no pain so awful as that of suspense, 'This is the punishment of the wicked; their doubt, anxiety and suspense cause weeping, wailing and gnashing of teeth (D. H. C. V:340). The great misery of departed spirits in the world of spirits, where they go after death, is to know that they come short of the glory that others enjoy and that they might have enjoyed themselves, and they are their own accusers (Ibid., V:425). Recapitulation Summary: Whereas an apostate world taught the abominable doctrine that the fire of hell is material and that its agonies are physical agonies; that there is an everlasting damnation of suffering for all who die in a state of sin; and that the vast majority of mankind receive this condemnation, the Lord _ revealed that eternal punishment means God's punishment, and "... It is not written that there shall be no end of this torment" (verse 6). But there is a hell and there is a punishment that men may eventually be prepared to enjoy a heaven commensurate with their deeds and desires. (See Lesson 10.) Voluntary Suffering of Jesus Reference has already been made RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 to verses 15 through 19 of Section 19 concerning the great suffering of the Lord in bleeding at every pore, in suffering both body and spirit, and then giving his life that man might be redeemed from his sins. Although some phases of the atonement of Jesus and his suffering were considered in Lesson 11, this revelation does express the magnitude of the cost involved in that atonement. It is probably sufficient here to remind ourselves that when we know the extent of the suffering of Jesus, we should appreciate more fully the love which he and the Father have for us in providing by the atonement an opportunity to escape from an endless misery, as subjects of Satan. (See 2 Nephi 9:6-27, especially verses 7-9, 21; Alma 42:14-15; Luke 22:44; Mosiah 3:7). It would be impossible for anyone to describe adequately the great suffering of Jesus as he took upon himself the sins of mankind. President John Taylor has given us a description of Jesus' suffering: The suffering of the Son of God was not simply the suffering of personal death; for in assuming the position that He did in making an atonement for the sins of the world He bore the weight, the responsibility, and the burden of the sins of all men, which, to us, is incomprehensible.... Groaning beneath this concentrated load, this intense, incomprehensible pressure, this terrible exaction of Divine justice, from which feeble humanity shrank, and through the agony thus experienced sweating great drops of blood, He was led to exclaim, "Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me."" He had wrestled with the superincumbent load in the wilderness, He had struggled against the powers of darkness that had been let loose upon him there; placed below all things, LESSON DEPARTMENT His mind surcharged with agony and pain, lonely and apparently helpless and forsaken, in his agony the blood oozed from His pores. Thus rejected by His own, attacked by the powers of darkness, and seemingly forsaken by His God, on the cross He bowed beneath the accumulated load, and cried out in anguish, "My God, why hast thou forsaken me!" When death approached to relieve Him from His hornble position, a ray of hope appeared through the abyss of darkness with which He had been surrounded, and in a spasm of relief, seeing the bright future beyond, He said, "It is finished! Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit' (Mediation and Atonement, pages 146-147). Two Plans The benefit of the atonement for personal salvation arises out of our obedience to the laws and commandments of the gospel. 'The forgiveness of sins comes to us by this obedience to the ordinances of the gospel and by enduring to the end, walking in obedience to the commandments. (See 3 Nephi 27:13-21; D & C 18:22.) When we contemplate the great love which God has for mankind in providing redemption through the plan of life and salvation, we may also exclaim with Lehi's son Jacob, as recorded in 2 Nephi, chapter g: O the wisdom of God, grace!... O how great the goodness of our God!... O how great the plan of our God!... O the greatness and the justice of our God!. O the greatness of the mercy of our God, the Holy One of Israel!. O how great the holiness of our God!... (2 Nephi 9:8 ff.) his mercy and On the other hand, there is the cunning plan of the evil one. In Jacob's exhortation, he reminds his brethren to: 691. Remember the awfulness in transgressing against that Holy God, and also the awfulness of yielding to the enticings of that cunning one. Remember, to be carnally-minded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal (2 Nephi 9:39). Do you feel as Jacob felt in expressing his gratitude to God for the Gospel Plan? Do his expressions of joy also express your sincere fecling for what the Lord has done in restoring light and truth through the Prophet Joseph Smith? Additional Instructions to Martin Harris In Section 19, the Lord informs Martin Harris that there are some things which are fundamentals of the gospel not yet to be taught to the world, but repentance is the principal message. (See verses 21, 31, and 32.) Some matters were too advanced for those who were yet babes in gospel understanding. 'The Lord, therefore, set forth what an earlier prophet had counseled concerning food suited for children contrasted with meat which is suited for those of "full age" (Hebrews 5212-14). Significant in Section 19 is the statement that The Book of Mormon is the Lord's word:.. To the Gentile, that soon it may go to the Jew, of whom the Lamanites are a remnant, that they may believe the gospel, and look not for a Messiah to come who has already come (D & C 19:27). A definition or clarification of an expression found in many scriptures is given in this revelation. As an example, John the Baptist prepared the way of the Lord by declaring that bales would follow him and ",.. Baptize you with the Holy 692 Ghost and with fire" (Luke 3:16). Nephi taught by revelation that through the acceptance of the gospel, there:... Cometh the baptism of fire and of the Holy Ghost; and then can ye speak with the tongue of angels, and shout praises unto the Holy One of Israel (2 Nephi 31:13). Jesus used this expression in addressing the Nephites. (See 3 Nephi 19:18-20.) Martin Harris is told to:. Declare repentance and faith on the Savior, and remission of sins by baptism, and by fire, yea, even the Holy Ghost (D & C 19:31). In other words, water baptism plus the baptism of the Holy Ghost, or "fire," after repentance and faith, cleanse and purify in remitting sins. (See 2 Nephi 31:17.) In closing one of the great revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord addresses questions to Martin Harris which may be asked of many today. Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessing—yea, even more than if you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 should obtain treasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent thereof. Behold, canst thou read this without rejoicing and lifting up thy heart for gladness? Or canst thou run about longer as a blind guide? Or canst thou be humble and meek, and conduct thyself wisely before me? Yea, come unto me thy Savior. Amen (D & C 19:38-41). Questions for Discussion 1. Why do you think Section 19 was addressed to Martin Harris? 2. Why is it necessary for one to understand the teachings of the "Christian" world at the time this revelation was given? 3. In what way or ways has the "Christian" world changed its teachings since the days of Joseph Smith? 4. Why have the prophets used the terms "eternal damnation," 'endless torment," and similar expressions? 5. Explain the "two plans" mentioned in this lesson. 6. What is meant by the expression: "They cannot bear meat now, but milk they must receive''? 7. What does this lesson contribute to an understanding of the scriptural expression: "Fire and the Holy Ghost'? —_- October Whea thields Ethel Jacobson Burnished long through summer heat Is the wheat. And now, as day in brilliance dies, Autumn skies Seem but reflections of the glow Far below— The bronze and gold spread at their feet, This shimmer of wheat! Uisiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 12—"Learn of Me, and Listen to My Words; Walk in the Meekness of My Spirit, and You Shall Have Peace in Me" (D. & C. 19:23). Christine TH. Robinson For Tuesday, January 6, 1959 Objective: To show that the only sure way to have peace within one's soul is through learning and keeping God's teachings. AN ancient philosopher once said: "Heap worldly gifts at the feet of foolish men. But on my head pour only the sweet waters of serenity. Give me the gifts of the untroubled mind." Since the beginning of time, one of man's most serious quests has been for serenity and for peace within his soul. Men can win high honors and success, they can accumulate vast wealth, and achieve great worldly conquests. Still, if they fail to obtain the peace of the untroubled mind, they can feel most inadequate and miserable. On the other hand, men may have little wealth and never achieve world acclaim nor honor, they may be robbed of their health, and caused to bear great affictions. Yet, if they possess the great gift of peace within their souls, they of all men are most blessed. Recently one of our fine Latterday Saint missionaries, at the height of his effectiveness and shortly before he was to be released, was seriously stricken with polo. For months he lay in a hospital fighting to regain his health. In an adjoining bed lay another young man who, while climbing toward unusual heights in a business career, was stricken with the same dread disease. In one of their many conversations, Our missionary inquired of the young business man what he would wish to have if he were granted one wish in this life. The young business man recognized the importance of the question, and asked that he be given time to think it over. After a few hours he teplied: If you asked me that question a few months ago, my immediate answer would have been, complete health. But, now, I can see that the most desirable thing in life is to have an mner peace and a spiritual serenity such as you exhibit. I long for that which you have, a constant awareness of the Lord's loving care. If then, I were to be granted one wish, it would be for peace and tranquility within my soul. Fortunately, not many of us must make such a sacrifice in order to learn the importance of the blessing of peace of mind. But all of us, either consciously or unconsciously, are searching for this tranquility of spirit. In our quest for this peace many of us are either trying to escape from the conditions of our environment or are seeking for something Page 693 694 we do not possess. In this search, some of us have persuaded ourselves that if we obtain certain worldly goods we will find what we want. Others of us may think we can find this serenity by getting away from our environment and the things which trouble us. Whether through possession or escape, we hope to find a magic formula for peace, tranquility, and the untroubled mind. The magic formula and the real answer to this most important search is clearly pointed out in the message in The Doctrine and Covenants (19:23) in which the Lord says: Learn of me, and listen to my words; walk in the meekness of my Spirit, and you shall have peace in me. In order to learn of God we must read and study the scriptures. One of the most beautiful poems ever written is the Twenty-third Psalm. In it we read: "... I will fear no evil: for thou art with me." Fear is a natural enemy of peace. 'Throughout the scriptures we are told that faith and trust in the Lord will overcome fear. The Savior of the world said: "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you.... Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27). One cannot read such words without sensing the elements of calmness and serenity. Another requirement for peace of mind, as listed in The Doctrine and Covenants, is to "listen to my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 words." God's words are eternal and unchanging, and when they are spoken by the Lord's chosen prophets under inspiration, they are as if God spoke them himself. Let us listen to the words of these prophets and if we listen to them we will heed their counsel. The third requirement for inner peace is to "walk in the meekness of my spirit." When we have learned really to know the Lord by reading of him and listening to his words, then we must put these words and teachings into practice in our lives. We must try to follow the example of Jesus and strive to become more humble, loving, gentle, kind, patient, and forgiving. Then shall we walk in the meekness of his spirit. These, then, are the requirements of inner peace as set down by our Father in heaven. It will take patient, conscientious effort on our part to fulfill these requirements. There is no short cut we can follow, nor is there a magic lamp we can rub in order to gain our desired goal. But we will find the Lord ever willing and anxious to help us in our quest. If we diligently try to follow his counsel, we shall find that serenity and peace will come into our souls. Almost before we realize it, our quest will be ended, our goal reached, and the Lord's promise fulfilled: And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus (Phil. 4:7). Work ITleeting—Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 4—Qualities of the Effective Home Manager Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, January 13, 1959 Objective: To point out qualifications important to an effective home manager. F you were applying for a position, your employer would make every effort to get an evaluation of your personal characteristics. Since you already have the most important position in the world, perhaps you can do some self-evaluating and see whether you would score a plus or a minus in these characteristics recognized to be important in the make-up of an_ effective home manager. 1. Intelligence means putting the intellect to work. One's ability to pick out the essentials of a problem, to see the situation as a whole, to use knowledge previously acquired in solving a new problem, and in reaching the goal depend upon one's intelligence. Intelligence is a comprehensive term for observing, understanding, thinking, remembering, and the ability to acquire knowledge. 2. Enthusiasm is another characteristic successful managers always seem to have. This quality is in part a by-product of good health, temperament, and one's conviction of the importance of the task. Enthusiasm motivates others to interest in the activity and stimulates oneself to higher levels. A sustained, lively, and healthy type of enthusiasm is preferable to an erratic type. 3. Understanding of human nature is an indispensable quality for successful home management. The sympathetic understanding of individual differences of members of the family is a great aid in solving problems and reducing frictions and disappointments in family life. The home manager who shows confidence in another's ability, expresses approval when work is well done, and who is consistent and fair in dealing with all problems does much toward creating happy relations in the home. 4. Imagination is an_ essential characteristic for creative experience in homemaking. It is the ability to visualize and make plans, to foresee results, to anticipate many problems before they arise. 5. Judgment is one of the homemaker's most priceless characteristics. Judgment is acquired through experience, and it grows slowly. It is that quality which enables one to weigh fairly the various facts in a situation and to see the problem in reasonable proportion to other problems to be faced. 6. Perseverance combines courage and patience. It is the quality that makes one work courageously and unremittingly for achievement. It is that quality that gives one the courage to face facts as they are and to act in full knowledge instead of blindly. It enables one to see beyond the short term goals to the Page 695 696 accomplishment of the more distant goals in family living. 7. Adaptability is that human quality that makes for flexibility in living. Much of one's ability to meet and solve daily problems depends upon one's ability to adjust to situations, demands, and changing conditions. 'The human environment is not static. Plans must frequently be shifted or even relinquished. Conflicts must be adjusted and difficulties overcome. Failure to meet changing conditions reflects inflexibility of mind which stifles growth and progress and causes disharmony in the home. 8. Self-management is the management of one's own feelings. It involves patience which denotes calm endurance, fortitude, and selfpossession, especially under suffering and provocation caused by inflicted wrongs or misfortunes. The ability to take the everyday happenings of life in one's stride is a worthy characteristic to be cultivated by all. Many problems of management involve personal adjustment and relationships. Mature children usually come from homes where parents meet the problems of life in a mature way. Discouragemrent, worry, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 frustration, or a feeling of defeat may indicate poor mental health. The homemaker, more than any other family member, sets the atmosphere in the home. The goal in all happy homes is an atmosphere of harmony and love. The mother must be calm when personal conflicts arise, as they are bound to do in every home. She should be able to handle the emotional entanglements of family members without a display of feelings. Management is successful in so far as it places development of individuals ahead of organization and makes the process of management the means to the end, which is satisfying human experiences. 'The individual homemaker who would be effective in the management of her home will shape the daily plans of action to fit her own family needs and desires. When this is done, management becomes a_ growing, vital part of the family experience. Discussion Thoughts 1. What are some qualities desirable in a good homemaker? 2. How can self-evaluation be of value to a homemaker? 3. When is management of a home really successful? She Sransient Grace Ingles Frost Summer is a transient thing, Here today, then, fleet of wing It speeds away tomorrow. Leaving us to watch its flight, It passes swiftly from our sight And fills the heart with sorrow For the loss of beauty shed, Which so lavishly is spread For us to gather at our will; Yes, summer is a transient thing Gay of heart and fleet of wing, Of which we never have our fill, Though we beg and strive to borrow Hours from time's reckoning. di dtewsiiare — America's Literature — Meet the New World Lesson 4—Some Puritan Women Elder Brant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Goldes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 11, 53, 54, 55-57) For Tuesday, January 20, 1959 Objcctive: Through glimpses into the lives of Puritan women to acknowledge some of the common bonds which tie them to their sisters, regardless of time. HOSE of us who have attempted to make a drawing, know how difficult is the problem of perspective, or creating on paper the illusion of space-relation among various objects. Gaining a true historical perspective is no less difficult. 'To stand surrounded by our living present and attempt to judge fairly each historical period, first according to its own merits, then in relation to preceding and following periods, is a task most of us have never dared to attempt. Those who have attempted it usually have been professional historians; even so, despair and frustration often have been their bedfellows. As illustration, who realizes that by 1959 exactly the same number of years will have passed since the ending of the Revolutionary War as had elapsed before the war, starting from 1607 and Jamestown, the first permanent English settlement in the New World. To regard the distant, ancient struggle of the Founding Fathers as a halfway mark seems preposterous. Yet such is the case. And such is the difficulty in earning a historical perspective of our own living past. A related problem, but even knottier, might be to cite specific names as proof that, before Betsy Ross or Martha Washington, at least half the "Founding Fathers" were of the female sex. From the female names on numerous tombstones (families of ten to thirteen children were not uncommon ) as well as the lovely cut and stained-glass pieces, the rubbed hardwood paneling in bedroom and parlor, the full-colored velvets and silks, the sterling silver pitchers and tableware, the distinguished oil paintings in the homes, we know that women were not far distant, but as for a woman—to name even one is difficult. We shall consider four who were lucky enough or brave enough to add their individual names to their own word-creations (how daring can a woman be?). Mary Rowlandson and Sarah Kemble Knight recorded their thrilling outward adventures within their provincial societies; Anne Hutchinson and Anne Bradstreet left record of their own inner adventures. Upon these four women rests the burden of representing the now anonymous yet nonetheless noble women who carried their share of their nation's weight through half its history. We shall consider them in the above groupings, earliest birth date first. Page 697 698 Mary Rowlandson (circa, 1635 - 1678) Born in Lancaster, Massachusetts, Mary White married her hometown minister and settled down at that frontier village to make a home. Ten years later, on February 10, 1676, the Narragansett Indians attacked the village during a campaign of King Philip's War. Mrs. Rowlandson and her three children were carried off by the Indians and forced to live with them for almost four months. One of her three children died of exposure before her ransom money came and she was free to return home. When she wrote down her experiences we do not know; from her lengthy title it becomes apparent that her motive was identical with that of other Puritan his. Torians: she wanted to prove anew God's care and mercy for his faithful servants. Published in Cambridge in 1682, five years after her death, her record was entitled The Soveraignty & Goodness of God, Together With the Faithfulness of His Promises Displayed: Being a Narrative of the Captivity and Restauration of Mrs. Mary Rowlandson. Tremendously popular in the seventeenth century, her account has been re-edited and published at least thirty times, and deservedly so, once we allow her own words—simple, direct, vivid — to speak for her.. About sun-rising, hearing the noise of some guns, we looked out; several houses were burning, and the smoke ascending to heaven. 'There were five persons taken in one house; the father and the mother and a sucking child they knowked on the head, the other two they took away alive.... At length they came and beset our own house, and quickly it was the dolefulest day that ever mine eyes saw. The house stood upon edge of a hill; some of the Indians got behind the hill, others RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 into the barn, and others behind anything that would shelter them; from all which places they shot against the house, so that the bullets seemed to fly like hail: and quickly they wounded one man among us, then another, and then a third.... They fired the house once with flax and hemp out of the barn, and one ventured out and quenched it, but they quickly fired it again, and that took. Now is that dreadful hour come that I have often heard of... But now mine eyes see it. Some of our house were fighting for their lives, others wallowing in their blood, the house on fire over our heads and the bloody heathen ready to knowk us on the head if we stirred out. Then I took my children (and one of my sisters hers) to go forth and leave the house; but as soon as we came to the door and appeared, the Indians shot so thick that the bullets rattled against the house as if one had taken an handful of stones and threw them, so that we were fain to go back.... But out we must go, the fire increasing, and coming always behind us roaring, and the Indians gaping before us with their guns, spears, and hatchets to devour us.... The bullets flying thick, one went through my side, and the same (as would seem) through the bowels and hand of my dear child in my arms. One of my elder sister's children (named William) had then his leg broken, which the Indians perceiving they knocked him on the head. Thus were we butchered by those merciless heathen, standing amazed, with the blood running down to our heels. My sister being yet in the house, and seeing those woeful sights... She said, "And Lord, let me die with them"; which was no sooner said but she was struck with a bullet, and fell down dead over the threshold. I hope she is reaping the fruit of her good labors, being faithful to the service of God in her place.... Oh! The doleful sight that now was to behold at this house! Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desolation he has made in the earth. Of thirty-seven persons who were in this one house, none escaped either present death or a bitter captivity, save only one.... I had often before this said that if the Indians should come, I should choose LESSON DEPARTMENT Paul's Photos ANNE HUTCHINSON rather to be killed by them, than taken alive; but when it came to the trial, my mind changed; their glittering weapons so daunted my spirit that I chose rather to go along with those (as I may say) ravenous bears.... Now away we must go with those barbarous creatures, with our bodies wounded and bleeding, and our hearts no less than our bodies.... God was with me in a wonderful manner, carrying me along and bearing up my spirit, that it did not quite fail. One of the Indians carried my poor wounded babe upon a horse; and it went moaning all along: "T shall die, I shall die." I went on foot after it, with sorrow that cannot be expressed.... Oh, I may see the wonderful power of God, that my spirit did not utterly sink under my affliction; still the Lord upheld me with his gracious and merciful spirit, and we were both alive to see the light of the next morning.... Such a tale creates its own powcr. Since she tells it in clear, dramatic detail, we feel at the scene with her. Her religious intensity, her devout faith color her words with unquestioned sincerity, as she recounts the horrors of this episode. Sarah Kemble Knight (1661-1727) After the death of her Boston merchant husband, this "dame of Boston—buxom, blithe, and debonair" carried on her husband's business, kept a school, did legal recordings, and ran her household. In October 1704, in her thirty-eighth year, she found it necessary to travel overland to New York, a feat almost unheard of for a woman, and sufficiently difficult for a man. Traveling alone, she completed the trip in five months. While her Journal is invaluable for the insight 700 it gives us into the daily lives of early Connecticut, its greatest contribution is Mrs. Knight herself, Her quick, absorbing eye, her ready ear for dialogue and, above all, her warm humor and enjoyment of life give a flavor to her writings far removed from the traditional caricature of the Puritan as glum, solemn, and self-righteous. Short space permits but one excerpt from her Journal. Her considerable skill in describing people is best seen when she takes us to a local store. In comes a tall country fellow, with his alfogeos [saddlebags or cheeks] full of Tobacco; for they seldom Loose their Cuds, but keep Chewing and Spitting as long as they'r eyes are open,—he advanc't to the midle of the Room, makes an Awkward Nodd, and spitting a Large deal of Aromatick Tincture, he gave a scrape with his shovel like shoo, leaving a small shovel full of dirt on the floor, made a full stop, Hugging his own pretty Body with his hands under his arms, Stood staring rown'd him, like a Catt let out of a Baskett. At last, like the creature Balaam Rode on, he opened _ his mouth and said: have You any Ribeinen for Hatbands to sell I pray?... When the Ribin is bro't and opened, Bumpkin Simpers, cryes its confounded Gay I vow; and beckning to the door, in comes Jone Tawdry, dropping about 50 curtsees, and stands by him: hee shows her the Ribin. Law You, sais shee, its nght Gent, do You, take, tis dreadful pretty.... Being accomodated they Departed. They Generally stand after they come in a great while speachless and sometimes don't say a word till they are askt what they want, which I impute to the Awe they stand in of the merchants, who they are constantly almost Indebted too; and must take what they bring without Liberty to choose for themselves; but they serve them as well, making the merchant stand long enough for their pay. Anne Hutchinson (1591-1643) Migrating from England in 1634, three years after Roger Williams, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 Mrs. Hutchinson likewise followed him from Massachusetts Bay Colony to Rhode Island in 1638. An ardent Puritan whose devotion to the eminent John Cotton was so strong that she came to New England rather than miss his sermons, she began calling friends to her home during the week to discuss the Sunday sermon. In 1635 a law was passed making church attendance compulsory. 'The following year a new law required approval of both civil magistrates and church elders before a candidate for membership in the church could be accepted. In 1638 the ministers began receiving their support from community taxes. In the face of these compulsions to religious belief, Mrs. Hutchinson affirmed her right to receive her own personal revelations "of the spit, and not by the ministry of the Lord." This Antinomian (one who maintains that Christians are freed from the moral law by the dispensation of grace set forth in the gospel) attitude caused a Synod to be called; she was judged guilty of heresy and banished, sarcastically defined by the Puritan historian Edward Johnson as "the master-piece of Women's wit... Backed with the sorcery of a second who had much converse with the devil." Refusing either to be silenced or to violate her spiritual integrity, she moved first to Providence, then to New York, where, five years later, she and her family were massacred by Indians. A product of the same Puritanism which disowned her, Anne Hutchinson has justly become famous for her courage and perseverance as sle stood for the night as she saw it. Un- LESSON DEPARTMENT fortunitely no written word from her pen has survived. Anne Bradstreet (c. 1612-1672) Freedom has ever been a personal inward state of mind and soul, never merely an outward group condition. It is fitting that the first woman in England's history who felt sufficiently free to attempt writing poctry should be, at the same time, a daughter of the Renaissance, the Reformation, a Puritan, and a New Englander. Such is Anne Bradstreet, in whom all these trends blend. The wife of a man who served Massachusetts as colonial secretary, judge, legislator, governor, ambassador, and royal counselor, and therefore always a prominent public figure, Mrs. Bradstreet has been proved by time to be greater as a woman than as a Puritan. As a religious person she was sufficiently human and honest to record in her writings moments of doubt; as a hostess, mother of eight children, loving wife and sensitive spirit, she has few, if any, flaws, at least to the modern eye. One of her largest accomplishments was to dare to be the first woman writing in English to record her inner self on paper where others might see and know. Perhaps, surprisingly, such action was to carn her universal respect and honor from the leading men of the colony. Cotton Mather went out of his way to praise her, and begrudging, sharptongued Nathaniel Ward wrote: It half revives my chill frost-bitten blood, To see a woman, once, do ought that's good; And chode buy [shod by] Chaucers Boots, and Homers lurrs, Let men look to't, least women weare the Spurs. 701 At her funeral, John Norton read an eulogy honoring her as the ""Mirror of Her Age, Glory of her Sex, Pattern and Patron of Virtue, the truely pious, peerless and matchless Glentlewoman, Mrs. Ann BradStawet... Ann was reared in England sutrrounded by an atmosphere of wealth, a great love of learning, and strong religious devotion. At one time she had eight tutors, and throughout her life read widely from libraries within her home. Her husband was a graduate of Cambridge. Soon after she was married, sixteen, she came to Massachusetts, settling at Andover within sound of the Merrimac River. She experienced the double pain of finding herself a new bride, in a new land, for she wrote: I came into this country where I found a new world and new manners, at which my heart rose. But after I was convinced that it was the way of God, I submitted to if. Yet often during the following years she felt herself to be an exile, both from the homeland and from complete inward peace: Remember, Lord, thy folk, whom thou To wilderness hast brought. Most of her poetry was written before she was thirty. As we night expect, she announced her purpose in writing not "to show my skill, but to declare the 'Truth—not to sett forth myself, but the Glory of God." And because the Puritan fathers approved of any device which proved its usefulness bv stating God's truths in a more forceful manner, they approved. 'This motive was more carefully followed in her long, rather tedious poems pub- 702 lished without her consent in 1650 and entitled in part, "The Tenth Muse lately sprung up in America; or, Several Poems, compiled with great variety of wit and learning, full of delight By a gentlewoman in those parts." In these poems she followed, somewhat too slavishly, her beloved models of du Bartas, Spenser, and Sidney. It is to her shorter, more personal poems and sayings that the modern turns, as best reflecting her personality, beliefs, and poetic power. 'These she felt to be too personal to be made public during her lifetime. They were first published six years after her death, in 1678; three more editions were called for within the following century. Conscientious and always soulsearching, Mrs. Bradstreet never felt entirely comfortable before her God: she felt she had not kept the commandment, "... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. " Well aware of the presumption others saw in her writing poetry, she confessed her distraction and her incompetence in the Preface to The Tenth Muse: I am obnoxious to each carping tongue Who says my hand a needle better fits; A poet's pen 'all scorn I should thus wrong, For such despite they cast on female wits. If what I do prove well, it won't advance; They'll say it's stol'n, or else it was by olaance...« Let Greeks be Greeks, and women what they are; Men have precedency and still excel. It is but vain unjustly to wage war, Men can do best, and women know it well. Pre-eminence in each and all is yours; Yet grant some small acknowledgment of ours. But when, in different mood, she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 chose to praise all women by praising Queen Elizabeth, the conviction with which she defends her sex is coupled with sharp wit: Now say, have women worth? Or have they none, Or had they some, but with our Queen is't gone? Nay Masculines, you have thus taxt us long, But she, though dead, will vindicate our wrong. Let such as say our Sex is void of Reason, Know 'tis a Slander now, but once was Treason. This same brilliance often characterizes her Meditations, written for her children in moments "when my soul hath been refreshed with consolations which the world knows not." 'Though many of them show how immediate her beliefs were to her, others preach a worldly wisdom even now worthy of emulation: 1. There is no object that we see, no action that we do, no good that we enjoy, no evil that we feel or fear, but we may make some spiritual advantage of all; and he that makes such improvement is wise, as well as pious. 2. Many can speak well, but few can do well. We are better scholars in the theory than the practical part, but he is a true Christian that is proficient in both. 6. The finest bread hath the least bran; the purest honey, the least wax; and the sincerest Christian, the least self-love. G. Sweet words are like honey: a little may refresh, but too much gluts the stomach. 12. Authority without wisdom is like a heavy axe without an edge, fitter to bruise than polish. 13. The reason why Christians are so loath to exchange this world for a better is because they have more sense than faith: they see what they enjoy, they do but hope for that which is to come. LESSON DEPARTMENT 16. That house which is not often swept makes the cleanly inhabitant soon loathe it; and that heart which is not continually purifying itself is not a fit temple for the spirit of God to dwell in. 17. Few men are so humble as not to be proud of their abilities; and nothing will abase them more than this: 'What hast thou, but what hast thou received? Come, give an account of thy stewardship?" 31. Iron till it be thoroughly heated is incapable to be wrought: so God sees good to cast some men into the furnace of affliction, and then beats them on His anvil into what frame He pleases. 36. Sore laborers have hard hands, and old sinners have brawny consciences. Thus she loved her God, but not enough, for she feared death, and loss of her children and husband, much as she loved them. In her poem "Before the Birth of One of Her Children," she contemplates possible death, then in complete selflessness pleads with her husband to love her memory, and to: Look to my little babes, my dear remains, And if thou love thyself, or lovest me, These oh protect from stepdam's injury. Her mother love surges through her poem to her children written June 23, 1656, as seen in the almost whimsical image which she enlarges through almost one hundred lines as well as in the constant delight of expressing her love for them. 'The poem begins: I had eight birds hatcht in one nest Four Cocks there were, and Hens the test, I nurst them up with pain and care, Nor cost nor labor did I spare, Till at the last they felt their wing. After characterizing each one as it left her nest she continues, 703 If birds could weep, then would my tears Let others know what are my fears Lest this my brood some harm should catch And be surpriz'd for want of watch Whilst pecking corn, and void of care They fall un'wares in Fowlers snare.... Long did I keep you soft and warm, And with my wings kept off all harm... Farewell my birds, farewell adieu, I happy am, if well with you. Nor can one doubt the warm love she held for her husband after experiencing her simple yet moving statement of her feelings toward him, refreshing in its spontaneity and frankness, yet most sincere: If ever two were one, then surely we; If ever man were loved by wife, then thee; If ever wife was happy in a man, Compare with me, ye women, if you can. I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold, Or all the riches that the East doth hold. My love is such that rivers cannot quench, Nor aught but love from thee give recompense. Thy love is such I can no way repay; The heavens reward thee manifold, I pray. Then while we live in love let's so persevere That when we live no more we may live ever. These, her greatest loves — children, husband, God — seemed lost temporarily as she stirred about in the cold ashes for her house burned July 10, 1666. In contrast to the black before her, her imagination warms — almost too much — to the memories of how things once were: Here stood that trunk, and there that chest; There lay the store I counted best; My pleasant things in ashes lie, And them behold no more shall I. Under thy roof no guest shall sit, Nor at thy table eat a bit; No pleasant tale shall e'er be told, Nor things recounted done of old; No candle e'er shall shine in thee, 704 No bridegroom's voice e'er heard shall be. In silence ever shalt thou lie. Adieu, adieu; all's vanity. Then straight I 'gan my heart to chide: And did thy wealth on earth abide? Didst fix thy hope on mouldering dust. The arm of flesh didst make thy trust? Raise up thy thoughts above the sky, That dunghill mists away may fly. Thou hast an house on high erect; Framed by that mighty Architect. The world no longer let me love. My hope and treasure lie above. Thus in Anne Bradstreet, as in thousands of others unnamed to us now, lay the great loves of humankind, reshuffled somewhat from what we can now feel, but common to women through time. Ann Bradstreet would have been the last to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 aspire to greatness, but in her commonness, touched with charm of personality and warmth of spirit, lies a tie common to us all. Supplementary Reference McCall's Magazine, January 1958, Senator John F. Kennedy, "Three Women of Courage" (Anne Hutchinson, page 55). Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do vou feel that Mary Rowlandson's account of her captivity deserved its popularity? Why or why not? 2. In acknowledging men's superiority, was Anne Bradstreet sufficiently modest? Or too modest? Why do you feel she received the praise of great men of her day? 4. Is Anne Bradstreet enough of a Puritan to be accepted as the best woman example? Why is she a Puritan at all? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 17—Weighed in the Balances Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, January 27, 1959 Objective: To learn of the factors which influence deviate behavior, and how they may be used advantageously in the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency. ATTER-DAY Saints, with their concepts of family life and regard for human values, are vitally interested in the problems of wayward youth. 'Those who tread the path of perfection and exaltation move ever onward and upward and, by their faithfulness, they are blessed. But what of the one who falls from the path? May he be restored? What protection is afforded those whose walk is faltering? 'The Gospel Plan, given to help man overcome the enemies of his soul, contains strong influence to prevent delinquency and to restore those who have erred. It is natural, therefore, for Latter-day Saints to be interested in the causes of deviate behavior, preventive steps, and the help which is available for those who have been imprudent. What is a delinquent child? In law, a delinquent child is one who commits an act, which, if committed by an adult, would be a crime. A crime is an act, or omission to act, constituting an offense against the community or state. A crime LESSON DEPARTMENT may include the violation of personal rights, but the offender must answer to the public authority for his act or omission. In this lesson we shall follow no technical definition of delinquency, but rather concern ourselves broadly with wrongdoing. The Why of Delinquency A perplexed expression and the time-worn question "Why?" usually characterize the reaction to crime. This may be experienced by a mother or father whose child has done wrong, by those who know of the offender or his crime, and often as not, by the offender himself. Dereliction is often perplexing, yet considerable knowledge is available on why some individuals violate the established rules of conduct. Knowledge of causes is important, for it provides helpful clues in reformation and suggests steps to keep us in the path of innocence. 'The causative factors of delinquency have certain characteristics, which, in summary form, are: 1. There is no single cause of delinquency, rather the causes are multiple. 2. Causes of delinquency are personal in the sense that a given factor will not influence two persons in exactly the same way. No two persons are alike. No two persons experience the same environment. To understand misbehavior, therefore, we must know the individual as well as his environment. An individual's behavior is also purposeful. Behavior from the view of the offender is rational. He gencrally acts to satisfy a need such as to make himself happier or more comfortable. 3. The offense is not necessarily indicative of the problem. To illustrate, the impulse to steal may come from a variety of stimulations. One child may steal to compensate for an inferiority. Another because of a lack of proper training. Many children steal to obtain the attention of a parent. Some of these children are clumsily reaching out in this way for a 705 parental expression of love. The desire to have and possess sometimes stimulates theft. Possession of things gives status to some children. Multiple causation in behavior makes it difficult to lay down specific principles which may be followed in dealing with the infringements of youth. 'Therefore, as we consider particular situations and problems, keep in mind that many other facets affect the individual, and that a diagnosis cannot be made without considering all of them. Personal Factors An unportant factor in behavior is the physical body. Personality conflicts often develop when physical growth fails to follow the normal course and, even with normal growth, the attendant anxieties and feelings of insecurity often produce rather serious conflicts. Some persons are embarrassed at their small stature. Others are stimulated by their strength and physique. Normal physical growth greatly affects the personality. During adolescence, for instance, when growth and social development come at such a rapid pace, most youngsters get feelings of infenority and anxiety. Often these feelings are contributing factors in wrongdoing. Physical defects often suggest inferiority feelings and, to compensate, some persons perform acts which are deviations from rectitude. Delinquent behavior may result from deep personal conflicts which arise in a variety of ways. The need to grow intellectually and to give expression to this drive is so strong that any attempt to thwart it, or even failure to encourage it, often results in uncommendable intellectual achievement. Mental capacity 706 influences behavior. Mentally superior persons are known to get into trouble because they have far too little to keep them challenged and busy. Persons of low mentality are less likely to misbehave but are easily led by others. Some, who are mentally retarded, are unable fully to sense right from wrong. The social development of children primarily involves steps towards independence. 'This development follows a normal course with individual variations, but, when it is unduly accelerated or retarded, the probability of problems is greatly increased. 'The child who feels socially inadequate is often observed to seek success, of a kind, by his misdeeds. Failure to provide a climate for spiritual growth diverts the individual into unwholesome activity. Spiritual growth, which comes from a close association with Deity through prayer, knowledge of God and his ways, and by living consistent with God's teachings, makes life meaningful by providing a goal. 'The person who has no such influence drifts easily, lacks a sense of values, and becomes actively interested in momentary pleasurable experiences, many of which are of the baser type. The Imprint of Parents Parents are the most vital influence in the lives of children. Parentchild relationships determine the degree of the child's respect for others and their rights, and the child's conception of right from wrong. Somewhat in reflection of the affection shown by parents, children display a warm or critical attitude toward others. A good affectional relationship with parents gives RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 the child emotional balance. A poor one encourages unsatisfactory affectional relationships with others. These relationships often involve seriously distorted conduct. An emotionally disturbed child, the result of a poor parent-child relationship, or other stress, often turns in desperation to delinquent acts. Parents' reaction to their child's current behavior affects the child's future behavior. Children who lack the stimulation of parents for desirable accomplishments often drift into delinquency. On the other hand, parents who place too much stress on success often cause children to resort to wrong behavior as a substitute, frustrated because they are unable to attain the heights demanded by parents. Community Influences We are greatly influenced in our lives by the community and, _particularly, by those who are close around us. Most of us like to "belong" and we are thus inclined to agree with the accepted activity of others. 'This is the basis of the socalled "gang" spirit. When such activity differs from righteous teachings, these teachings are a deterrent to delinquent behavior if such teachings have been clear and have been made to seem important. The commission of crime may be suggested by communication media, such as movies, television, newspapers, radio, and comic books. 'These media often curiously suggest that crime and violence are all right under certain circumstances. For example, the criminal is often pictured as having a fascinating hfe— one whose chief concern is to avoid LESSON DEPARTMENT arrest rather than to refrain from wrongdoing. The lack of wholesome recreational outlets and the presence of taverns, pool halls, and other such influences, often contribute to delinquency, particularly where young people are not creatively engaged. Schools generally contribute to desirable conduct, but the school influence may also be negative. 'The child who fails to obtain satisfaction from school progress may, for attention, turn to unacceptable activities such as destructive acts at the school. What to Do About Delinquency What can we do in our role as parents, grandparents, community members, Church members, and persons interested in youth, to prevent the development of delinquent tendencies and to correct or change persons who commit delinquent acts? Home and F'amily Parents can properly teach their children. Latter-day Saints have been enjoined specifically and_particularly that they must assume this responsibility. President Joseph F. Smith at one general conference admonished parents: Teach Your Children... We belicve in the Lord Jesus Christ... That the Prophet Joseph Smith... Was chosen and called of God to lay the foundations of the Church of Christ.... Teach your children to respect their neighbors. Their bishops... The teachers... Old age, gray hairs, and feeble frames.... Teach your children to honor the law of God and... Country... To be loval to their country, loyal to righteousness and uprightness and honor, and thereby they will grow up to be men and women 707 choice above all the men and women of the world (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 293). Parents teach, not only by telling their children what to do, but by permitting children to observe the parents' basic virtues and _ ideals. Parental acts are readily assimilated into the lives of children. A principle in psychiatry called "identification,' a way of saying "a chip off the old block," is deeply involved in this process. Children like to "identify" with and become as their parents, generally boys identifying with their fathers and girls with their mothers. The child who observes his father removing his hat in the presence of ladies will likely do likewise. Parents must love their children. One way is to help children meet basic needs. 'They need to feel comfortable in their home life, to feel an emotional environment of warmth, and to realize their parents truly love them. The child who feels unloved by his parents easily drifts into delinquent behavior. He lacks that security which ties him to the moorings of accepted behavior. Wise parents will make themselves easily accessible to comfort and counsel their children, as they meet the problems and stress of everyday living. Children who misbehave should understand that it is their behavior that parents dislike rather than themselves. Parents can surround their children with wholesome influences. 'To a secure emotional environment patents must add stimulation for learning and honest thinking, as well as wholesome recreational outlets. In the words of President Joseph F. Smith: 708. What are we doing in our homes to train our children; what to enlighten them? What to encourage them to make home their place of amusement, and a place where they may invite their friends for study or entertainment? Have we good books, games, music, and well-lighted, well-ventilated, warm rooms for their convenience and pleasure? (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 318). In these times when the very cleverest are hired to promulgate sinister and low-grade ideas, parents need to be resourceful in finding good and attractive literature, music, and art for their children. Satisfaction in play is all-important in the life of a child. Versatile parents will provide ideas and opportunities for children to have wholesome fun within the home and will "cement" parent-child relationships in so doing. The Church. The Church can play a vital role in dealing with the wrongdoer. Some of the major contributions of the Church might be summarized as follows: 1. The Church fortifies the individual against wrongdoing. This is done by teaching regard for other persons and respect for their rights; by helping young people to identify fundamental values in human behavior, as opposed to current fads; and by teaching them the true meaning of life. 2. The Church provides excellent opportunities for wholesome associations and spiritualized recreation. 3. The Church, through its leadership, provides wise counsel to Church members, encouragement to improve, and help in overcoming problems. Because the Church is so certainly on the side of right, we cannot permit the power of its influence to be lessened by our actions nor permit confusion regarding it to enter the hearts of our children. In this reRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 spect, the following principles are suggested: 1. The Church and its teachings must be respected by parents so as to be respected by children. Parents should so conduct themselves as to leave no question that they stand squarely behind the Church and its teachings. 2. The teachings of the Church must be promulgated in such an_ interesting fashion that children will want the influence of the Church. 3. Church participation must not be unpleasant or used as a threat to the child. This is not to say that the consequences of wrongdoing should be withheld from the child. On the contrary, they should be taught to face squarely the realities of wrongdoing. The Role of the Community Membership in a community entails obligation. We can influence community environment and our influence should, therefore, be felt. The character and variety of our amusements have so much to do with the welfare and character of our young people that they should be guarded with the utmost jealousy for the preservation of the morals and stamina of the youth of Zion (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 321). We should work to eliminate places where young people can get into trouble, the "hangouts" and "dens of ill talk" and "ill thought," and all corrupt activities. We should encourage wholesome recreation and activities which provide opportunities for intellectual, social, and spiritual growth and development. We should create in each child a consciousness of a community responsibility to act in a fashion consistent with the laws of the land, the accepted culture, and the teachings of God. Health, recreational, and educational services should be such that LESSON DEPARTMENT each contributes to the healthy personality development of each child in the community. This implies sound planning and wise execution of plans. Special Services for Delinquent Children The delinquent child should be treated as society's charge, not its outcast. Such a concept contemplates a variety of diagnostic and treatment services to unravel the skein of delinquent behavior. Many professional persons are called upon in the performance of these tasks. They include doctors, lawyers, dentists, psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers. 'The social work profession deserves special mention. It is this profession which provides persons trained in the undertanding and direction of human behavior. Social workers serve as probation officers, case workers, recreational and institutional workers. The best services of professionally trained persons are provided by those who have a genuine love for children and a desire to help them attain desirable goals. In order to do a reasonably adequate job of dealing with delinquent youth, the following services are €ssential: 1. Juvenile Courts which have a philosophy of seeking the "Why" of behavior, and having sought and found the "Why," to apply the appropriate measures and services to restore the child to accepted behavior. 2. Good probation services. This contemplates persons professionally trained in social work, case loads which permit adequate time on each case, and adequate administrative and technical supervision of probation officers. 3. Proper detention facilities. This foresees a wholesome place, adequate super- 709 vision, and a proper philosophy. Detention is intended not as a place of punishment, but rather one of safekeeping, if needed, while awaiting appearance in court, return to home, or to protect the child against himself. 4. Specialized diagnostic and treatment facilities are needed for children who are extremely emotionally disturbed. In many communities this takes the form of a child guidance clinic, staffed with a psychiatrist, psychological and _ psychiatric-social work services. 5. Case work services. Delinquent children and their parents often need professional help in understanding one another. Case work services are needed for delinquent children in their own homes and for those who are placed in foster homes. The selection and supervision of a good foster home is a technical job. 6. Some delinquent children require institutional care. Such institutions should be more than places of human storage, they should be equipped to meet the special treatment and training needs of their wards. A deterrent to the acceptance of an enlightened philosophy of dealing with delinquent behavior is the feeling that a person who commits crime should be punished. Based upon the Mosaic law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, this view has a rational basis. One of the most effective ways of teaching is to learn realistic behavioral limits. The normal child who disobeys his parents and is punished finds punishment disagreeable and is thus impelled to conform to his parents' wishes. The child who touches a hot stove learns the foolishness of his conduct. A delinquent child, however, does not always respond in a rational way. Indeed, his delinquency itself may be an irrational response. Since delinquency stems from a variety of causes, including, in some cases, a resentment against unwise punishment or the use of 710 Music Suggested for Use by Relief Societies in Connection With Course on America's Literature - BEAUTIFUL SAVIOUR |... -16 = NOW THANK WE ALL OUR GOD.20 — © BREAD OF LIFE...............0.........10 ees O SACRED HEAD NOW WOUNDED a PRAISE TO THE LORD a B. A | LOVE THY KINGDON.................16 am. ALL MY HEART THIS NIGHT REJOICES 20.. MY GOD, HOW WONDERFUL...... 16 = WE THANK THEE, JESUS, DEAREST FRIEND -16.. LAMB OF GOD, PURE AND HOLY.18 = GOD THE FATHER, BE OUR STAY.18 = ONCE HE CAME IN BLESSING....25.. AND WITH SONGS, I WILL CELEBRATE ooo. Eeeceeeeeeeceeeeeee 25 = JOSEPH, DEAREST JOSEPH MINE.22 = THE LORD, MY GOD, BE PRAISED.22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (0 On Approval 0 Charge ( Money Enclosed Name Address City & State LSet Se SE (irre mm lst South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 authority, we must realize that punishment must be used wisely and knowingly, if it is to be used effectively. This rules out punishment for punishment' s sake alone. Let us not get a distorted view of our youth. That there is too much delinquency is undebatable. 'The constant publication of delinquency data has a tendency to blacken all young people. While most young people have problems, as they mature, by far the great majority of them are not only law-abiding citizens but they are making unusually commendable contributions to the communities in which they live. Let us, therefore, approach the problems of delinquency with care and searching inquiry, with resistance against delinquent acts but with understanding of the individual, without vengeance. Let us take advantage of the things we know help prevent delinquent behavior; help each person to learn and live an acceptable pattern; and for those who do wrong, seek to provide adequate services to assist them in solying their problems. If this be our approach, our children will not be found wanting when "weighed in the balances." Questions for Discussion. List some of the offenses which fall a the delinquency category? How can they be avoided? 2. Why is it important to be aware of the services available in our various communities for dealing with delinquency?. Why is a child's school adjustment an ieee! Factor in his behavior pattern? Discuss reading skill in particular. LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Why do we prefer to say "children with problems" rather than "problem children" when speaking of youth who have erred? 5. How can parents "stay close" to their children? 6. Why is it important for parents to know where their children are and what they are doing at all times? 7. Discuss: Children love discipline. Supplementary References 1. Gospel Ideals, Davin O. McKay, chapter 31, page 402. 2. "The Wayward," SterHen L Ricuarps, The Improvement Era, June 1957, page 392.. "The Prodigal Son," Davi O. McKay The Improvement Era, February 1958, page 79. 4. "Cleanliness," Emma Ray Rices McKay, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1957, page 716. 5. "Getting Tough Doesn't Help," Exizapetn McCain, National ParentTeacher, March 1957, page 5. 6. "Helping Children Solve Problems," Science Research Association, Inc., 57 W. Grand Avenue, Chicago 10, Illinois, 40 cents per copy. 7. "Back to What Woodshed?" Public Affairs Pamphlet, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16, New York, (No. 232, 2 cents each). 8. "Wanted: Someone to Trust," JERE Merritt, reprint from Woman's Home Companion, September 1955, National Probation and Parole Association, 1790 Broadway, New York 19, New York. G. "A Style of Our Own" (dress standards), SPENCER W. KimBa. U."* 10. "Our President Speaks," Davin O. McKay.* 11. "Your Coat of Armor,"' Harotp B. LEE.* 12. "Strength Through Clean Living," Mark E. Perersen.* *Y. W. M. I. A., 40 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah, 10 cents each, $1 per dozen, $6 per 100. 711 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 150 to 300 miles.. 300 to 600 miles.. 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles.. 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles.... Leave them at ou ed uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 712 all from the com= t of your home _) EL 5-6651 Ext. 275-276 ROEBUCE AND CO SEARS ROEBUCK & CO. 754 South State St. SALT LAKE CITY 10, UTAH HAWAII TOUR Beautiful Fall Tour Leaving Salt Lake City November 23, 1958 Transportation by Boat or Plane Fourteen-Day Tour Visiting Four Islands CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR Eight-Day Tour Includes Tournament of Roses Parade For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2337, CR 7-6334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1958 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-four Mrs. Susan EvizABetTH BENCH WALL Provo, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. AMANDA Baitey Murray Logan, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. ANNIE PaRKINSON PACKER Logan, Utah Ninety Mrs. Hartre May Waters Glenwood Springs, Colorado Mrs. Emity Sprincer CoLEMAN Midway, Utah Mrs. EvizaBetH BARKER Taylorsville, Utah S weet Pu rple Belle W. Anderson Spring is opening the lilac buds; Back through the tinted haze, My thoughts are turning eagerly, To childhood's fragrant days. To the glorious presence of friendship, Flower of my tenderest care, In my garden of treasured memories It blooms forever there. The old eight-day clock is striking, Mother calls each one to the shrine Of the family's living altar, Father's prayer is inspired — divine. Lilacs fade, like my childish dreams, Autumn dew is falling like tears, But the scent of the purple still lingers, Sweet aura of happy years. AND NOW... VOL. Il Answers to Gospel Questions JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Authoritative answers to current questions and problems—most ol which dg 4 AAgswers have never been presented to the public before. In this volume 2 \s Smith gives answer to 50 ital question hich have beer elected | from a doctrinal andpoint of interest Among these probler and Gaspe questions whicn receive answers are the follc lg: {ions i Non-segregation. Cremation of the Dead ()uest! 4 Guided ——, and Interplanetary '9N-mNen Is. Cod Once avWwaeee 7 Travel. 3 ~ a) Are there any vital changes in The The Authority of Jesu 2 Book of Mormon? % id Why docs not The Doctrine and Will Sons of Perdition Ha As. F g Covenants contain more revelacendency over Satan? *;. 'yy! 2 tion?: =" f _ ™ ae —_ 1. $2.50 A Century of Singing J. SPENCER CORNWALL "This is not only music, but the building of a human bridge,'' wrote Time, quoting from the Berlin Telegraf about the Tabernacle Choir concert in that city In A Century of Singing J. Spencer Cornwall has shown how the choir could do just that. The choir, though frequently changing its membership, has had continuity in the majority of its members, thus assuring excellent performance during its 111 years ol activity. J. Spencer Cornwall, conductor from 19335 to 1957, has written an all-inclusive, dramatic book which provides fascinating reading and invaluable information on this inspired singing organization—the Tabernacle Choir. HE THAT He That Liveth LIVETH DOYLE L. GREEN He That Liveth by Doyle L. Green, managing editor of The Improvement Era, is about Jesus the Christ, written for Latter-day Saints anc beautifully illustrated with ten masterpieces from the facile brush of the master Danish painter Carl Bloch. Written in readily understandable and at the same time fascinating language, this book answers a_ real need in the Church. This is a family book, a must for parents and children to read and discuss together Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) | have an cm a Please charge for encircled numbered books: 2 3 Address City Zone State Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. | | | | Name | l | ' 2. 3. $3.95 $3.25 INSTITUTE all Pook wo 4602 SOUTH fz ~~ cc). E, C2) RO BALT LAKE City, Uiad oul UNT~11-135-11018 iP 98 NEW from Beneficial... Family Package Plan does your insurance... But the (who needs: lunit: $5,000 premium stays the ae!: Ss most insurancc se real packaged protection... A DAD protection) = unitegae" ie all-in-on policy that covers fe Age 18 3 units: $15,000 through 50? Entire family, including children born later or legally adopted. MOM $1,250 per unit insurance regardless of family additions. CHILDREN Insured for $509 per unit from age 15 days premium deposit protects the en- (including future per unit from 6 tire family. For more informafamily additions) months to age 22 tion, call your Beneficial man, or use the coupon. Soveial tte imurones Connery | |S BBENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance Send now for folder giving more complete details cbout Beneficial's new Family Packace Plan. Street or RFD City..... Zone. State As your family increases, so Yet you pay no more for your One low, easy - to - remember Name. Amount of Insurance (if same age as Dad) to 6 months: $1,000 Virgil EL. Smith, Pres. hs NUTEF OOCUEIY bp DAG A 2% UW IS we eR mer: eet, pre ee + ventewen a —— es - & Bees en: { -—, = 4 i, t s- 7 ~ =! | iiyy - "= q < ' f ry '> Pi. It VOL. 45. NO. WE QS chassins, | NOVEMBER 11958 -, 7 ' P of, '. << 8 gone I. we hed PR en ee] ' lb dertieneg tng" iia On the Rim Christie Lund Coles Here below me is a world of colors— Vermilion, strawberry, pomegranate red; Saffron, umber, and chrysanthemum yellow; Heliotrope, lavender, wisteria, and the blue Of robin's eggs, and blue delphiniums; And colors for which there are no names As there are no words for this scene on scene Carved by the hand of water and of time Before years or water had a name; Before man stood, trembling here, as I Looking down into an eagle's nest. From the far floor down the bird ascends, Up... Up... Higher and ever higher Toward the rim... This is the ultimate... This is the gossamer sky to him. But above the sky Stand I. The Cover: Plaque in the Relief Society Building Left to right: President Belle S. Spafford; Betty Lou Martin; Theresa Coombs Photograph by Ray G. Jones Frontispiece: Bryce Canyon, Utah Photograph by George Scott Hansen Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Tear and Sar I want to tell you how much the Magazine has meant to me and my nineteenyear-old daughter while we have been living here in Japan. She has had the privilege of teaching the literature lessons, and I am sure she has gained a great deal of knowledge while doing so. Our group of seven women felt that we had gained also, as now my daughter will always be a Relicf Society member, even though she is young and unmarried now. —Miriam C. Hale Nagoya, Japan My husband and I are laboring here as full-time missionaries, and we find The Relief Society Magazine one of the best helps we can have for leaving in the homes. We have a special calling for searching out the members of the Church who live in the country districts. —Mrs. A. E. Anderson Columbus, Mississippi I have enjoyed the Magazine for many years. It is a great help to us Relief Socicty women and busy mothers. —Hazel O. Mill St. Anthony, Idaho In my positicn as contest chairman for the recent Round-up of the League of Utah Writers, I was interested in noting that the three published stories which received the awards were all from The Relief Society Magazine: "The Apricot Tree," by Mabel Harmer (April 1958); "Merry Christmas, Mother,' by Rosalee Lloyd (December 1957); and "The Long View," by Sarah O. Moss, (July 1958). The lovely poem "Song of the Weathervanes," by Lael W. Hill, which won second place in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, and was published in the January 1958 Magazine, also won an award in the published poetry section. —Olive W. Burt Salt Lake City, Utah Page 714 I have been reading the Magazine since I was a girl in my mother's home. The lovely stories and poetry have always brought me comfort and peace, and I await eagerly each new issue. We are fortunate to have such literary talent in the Church to entertain and uplift us. —Beverly R. Hamilton Cheshire, Conn. I enjoyed Mabel Law Atkinson's little story "Silent Carillons" in the October issue of the Magazine. I called on her recently at her home (in Dayton, Idaho). She is bedridden, except for doing a little work in a wheel chair. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The thought came to me that in presenting the fine literary lessons you have put out in recent years, you have raised the level of literary taste throughout the Church, both now and for time to come. It is a wonderful achievement. —lIns W. Schow Brigham City, Utah I think I have always enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine and look forward to its arrival each month. Needless to say, the poems are of special interest to me and I look for them first. It is always a joy to read and study them. The stories and articles are also the best to be found anywhere. 'Thank you for sending us such a wonderful Magazine. —Viola A. Cornwall Salt Lake City, Utah Thank you for giving us such a wonderful Magazine. I really enjoy it and look forward every month to receiving it. I only wish it would come to us once a week instead of once a month, —Beverly Culwell Little Rock, Arkansas THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford 4 Marianne C. Sharps - - - - m Louise W. Madsen - - = - = - = = Hulda Parker - - -: _ Anna B. Hart Aleine M. Young "Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Winnietred S. Josie B. Bay Manwaring Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - S: G c Associate Editor - - - oS o oO a = General Manager - S - -. ' 7 bs Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth - President - First Counselor - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Irene B. Woodford Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford VOL. 45 NOVEMBER 1958 NO. 11 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Mission of Womankind Belle S. Spafford The Grand Key-Words of Relief Society 00000. Marianne C. Sharp 7: Danger—Curve Ahead on... Cceeeccecseeeeeceeneees 739 FICTION The Right Climate Vera H. Mayhew 731 "Not to the Swift' —Chapter 9 oo... Ceteeeeceeeec eee Deone R. Sutherland 745 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 714 MIBGEV, VOCS AGO... Ee e.-cernene-ccoseccacecsesesseresorneseseeanessasanvesneuaseseuserscaseees on 734 Notes to the Field: Christmas Gifts for Relief Society Women 728 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 751 Birthday Congratulations 784 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Festive Foods for Fun and Fancy. 200.. E. E. EcesscecsseessceeeeccoceseseecenesecereceeeneseceseeesscsesaeeseeaeesMaren E. Hardy 740 Olive Rhoades Westenschow Enjoys Hand work HObbics cccecsccsssesssssseessseteesvsessevevessssvntensessessnsees 750 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Theology—The Church Organized in the Last Dispensation...0...... C ceceRoy W. Doxey 758 Visiting Teacher Messages—''... Seek Not to Counsel Your God".... Christine H. Robinson 765 Work Meeting—Operating the Household. A OoVesta Barnett 766 Literature—Two Puritan Poets: Wigglesworth 'and "Taylor. _.. Briant S. Jacobs 768 POETRY As Tangible As Gross. O. Cc. Icece cece cccece ceceeceesseneneeeecnneeesscosussisseaetensenecanseaesoeaneeseeEva Willes Wangsgaard 720 A Song for lnmipaadseite -.......4Grace Ingles Frost 725 Young Mother...... Elsie McKinnon Strachan 725 Like a Kernel... Vesta Nickerson Lukei 730 Prairie Autumn Bernice Ames 730 Thanksgiving.... "Mabel Law Atkinson 737 Footsteps _.......-...... Annie M. Ellsworth 737 Plymouth Winter Maude Rubin 757 Perspective Beulah H. Sadleir 781 ' PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL | BOARD | OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by the General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 715 The Key Is Turned oo... Eccesceccsceccecnsesceneesseceeseessecsseceaececarenecsnaesseeneene Report and Official Instructions 2.2... Ese csee ee cece Woman's Sphere nae see ee eeee i ieee cseeeeee setaeenacenaes coer Editorial: Accepting a Call to Service....... You Can Sew IX. — Fitted Facings 2... Ccecececccece cc ccecene oc cnceceseeeeenneeesscnsceecoceeaee Social Science—The Restraining Hand @.00..2...... Ccccccccceecccsenceescoeteneeneeeetecsseenee On the Rim—Frontispiece oo... Cee eee cece eee BUGS ACUNGHNNY CS) ooo en cs accearesctoccccseszaceceneaenas-nenscaeessncesereacannasscseeseceossewene7 Louise W. Madsen 723 Belle S. Spafford 726 Ramona W. Cannon 735 Marianne C. Sharp 736 Jean R. Jennings 743 John Farr Larson 774........ Christie Lund Coles 713.. Maryhale Woolsey 737 The Mission of Womankind President Belle S. Spafford (Address Delivered at General Session, Relief Society General Conference, October 8, 1958) HIS afternoon I wish to speak to you on a subject very near and dear to the hearts of Latter-day Saint mothers; namely, our homes and families. 'This subject has been treated from this pulpit and elsewhere in Church gatherings times without number through the years, but it remains an ever important one to the mothers of the Church. If I were to ask most any faithful Latter-day Saint mother what were the two dearest things on earth to her, I think she would unhesitatingly reply, "The restored gospel and my family." The gospel gives to Latter-day Saint mothers the loftiest concept of home and family life known to mankind. Recently I visited a mother whose forty-year-old son had _ suddenly passed away. He had lived an unusually successful and exemplary life. His devotion to his mother and his watchcare over her had been of the highest order. Familiar with the deep affection of this mother for her son and knowing her reliance— yes, even her dependence — upon him, I expected to find her prostrate with grief and anguish of heart. Rather, I found a composed, albeit a sorrowing mother. She said, "Had the Lord told me when he gave me this son that I might have him for forty years, but at the end of that time I would have to part with him forever, I feel sure I would have gladly accepted him. But the Lord was good to me. He gave me a choice spirit, an exceptional son, with the knowledge Page 716 that he would be mine eternally. While I now must part with him for a few years, the knowledge of our eternal relationship forbids me to be aught but grateful to the Lord." What a moving demonstration of the sustaining power of gospel truths! The knowledge which the gospel gives us of the eternal organization of the family is precious to all true Latter-day Saint mothers and serves as a guide in all of their activities in relation to their families. The gospel teaches that marriage is an eternal principle ordained _ before the foundation of the world. It teaches that in our existence here, through husband and wife, the spirits which God created shall be given tabernacles of flesh. It is here we prove ourselves and prepare ourselves and our children for the place we shall hold in our heavenly and eternal home. 'The doctrine of the continuation of the marriage covenant and the family as a unit, has been referred to as among the most sublime of the theological doctrines of the Church. In explaining this doctrine, President Joseph F. Smith has said: Our associations are not exclusively intended for this life, for time, as we distinguish it from eternity. We live for time and for eternity. We form associations and relations for time and all eternity. Our affections and our desires are found fitted and prepared to endure not only throughout the temporal or mortal life, but through all eternity. Who are there besides the Latter-day Saints who contemplate the thought that beyond the THE MISSION OF WOMANKIND grave we will continue in the family organization? The father, the mother, the children recognizing each other in the relations which they owe to each other and in which they stand to each other? This family organization being a unit in the great and perfect organization of God's work, and all destined to continue throughout time and eternity? (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, page 277). Surely with such a concept, husbands and wives should be inclined to love one another with a deep, a sacred, and an enduring love. Children should be cherished with the strongest bonds of affection; there should be the greatest solicitude on the part of the parents for their children. No effort should be too much, no sacrifice too great to protect them from evil and preserve them in nghteousness, that none shall be deprived of his eternal blessings. 'The love and the sanctity of the home should be zealously safeguarded. Just as the knowledge which we have of the divine destiny of the family is a comfort, a strength, and a blessing to us, so it also places upon Latter-day Saint parents, and today I speak particularly to mothers, a greater responsibility, a more solemn obligation than that held by any others to make all else in life subservient to the well-being of our homes and families. (CHURCH leaders have continually emphasized the importance and significance to us of the doctrine of the eternity of the family unit, and they have guided us in the application of this doctrine in our individual lives. Always in the Church, people have been admonished to marry in the House of the Lord, to establish homes, and _ bear 717 and rear children in righteousness. An appealing picture comes to us in the teachings of President Brigham Young, wherein he said: Young man, set you up a log cabin, if it is not more than ten feet square, and then get you a bird to put in your little cage. You will then work all day with satisfaction to yourself considering that you have a home to go to and a loving heart to welcome you... Strive to make your little home attractive.... Let your houses nestle beneath the cool shade of trees and be made fragrant with perfume of flowers (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 301). To the young women he said: It is the calling of the wife and the mother to know what to do with everything that is brought into the house, laboring to make her home desirable to her husband and children, making herself an Eve in the midst of a Paradise of her own creating, securing her husband's love and confidence, and tying her offspring to herself with a love that is stronger than death, for an everlasting inheritance (Ibid., page 307). From such humble homes as are pictured in these words of President Brigham Young, lacking perhaps many of the pretentious, material comforts of life, but by no means impoverished, have come some of the Church's and the Nation's most stalwart men and women. Our own great president, President David O. McKay, came from such a home. In writing of the ancestry of President McKay in the Relief Society Magazine, his sister, Jeanette McKay Morrell, describes the home of President McKay's childhood as follows: Following their marriage, David [President McKay's Father| took his bride, Jennette to the log cabin in Huntsville, and they commenced life as young pioneers.... Iwo daughters... Were born in the log cabin before the front part of the rock house, now known as "The Old Home," was completed. It was a happy day when this small family moved into the larger and more comfortable home, and it was in this house that President David O. McKay was born (Relief Society Magazine, September 1953, pages 580-581). When President McKay was eight vears old, his father was called on a mission to Scotland. Sister Morrell writes of this: "The hopes and plans that had been in their minds for so long, regarding the enlargment of the house and furnishing it, seemed almost within their grasp, and now because of this call everything must be postponed." But the mother of President McKay was equal to the sacrifice. Her great goal was the eternal well-being of her family. Today we are not called upon to live in log cabins, and the physical make-up of our homes has greatly improved. But the past has proved that pretentious houses, with fine furnishings, are not essential to happiness within the home nor to the development of children of strong and righteous character. Not only does the physical makeup of our homes differ today from those in the past, but homes as we have traditionally known them are undergoing other basic changes. Many functions formerly performed in the home are now performed outside the home. Scientific advances have provided labor-saving equipment, and so-called "built-in maid service" comes to the homemaker in such things as frozen, canned, and packaged foods, relieving mothers of much of the drudgery formerly required of them in thcir homes. Perhaps the most basic change affecting homes today, and the one fraught with the greatest uncertainty insofar as the ultimate well-being of the home and children is concerned, is the growing trend of mothers to enter the labor market. Leaving their homes, mothers are going to work each day, the same as are fathers, returning home at the close of the work day to pick up the duties incident to their role as mother and homemaker. T a Manpower Conference held in 1957 at Montana State College, conducted by the National Manpower Council, it was reported that one-third of all the women in the United States ages fourteen or over are in the labor force in any given month, and well over two-fifths— some tw enty-cight million — three out of every ten married women — are now working. Nearly two out of every five mothers whose children are of school age are in the labor force. It was predicted that during the next two decades, there will be tremendous pressures for more married women to engage in paid employment outside the home. The Manpower Council considers that in the course of the present century a revolution has occurred in women's employment. They compare it with the Industrial Revolution, of the latter part of the eighteenth and the early part of the nineteenth centuries, in its impact upon American life and in its influence in bringing about changes in national attitudes, programs, practices, home and family life, and social and economic conditions generally, with the end results difficult, if not impossible, to foresee. There are varied views among Socalled authorities as to the effect upon homes and children of moth- 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 THE MISSION OF WOMANKIND ers entering the labor market. At a conference of the International Council of Women held in Montreal, Canada, in June of 1957, a delegate from Great Britain, declaring her opinions to be based on survey and study, said that "when the mother was in employment, the home was not less well-kept nor were meals neglected, nor the children less clean. When the mother was a capable woman and able to make satisfactory arrangements for the care of her children when she was not at home, the children did not appear to suffer." It was apparent, she said, "The condition of the home, the happiness of the marriage, and the care of the children depended more on the character and competency of the mother than on the fact that she went to work." She claimed that, "There was an overwhelming consensus of opinion that there had been no increase in juvenile delinquency due to mothers taking up employment." At the same International Council of Women conference, another authority, a Canadian woman, gave a counter view. She declared that, undoubtedly, some of the problems of child waywardness, and adolescent upheaval are related to the weakened discipline and influence of the homes, due to mothers being away from home at business and being too occupied with household tasks during the hours they are in the home to give proper attention to the emotional, spiritual, and disciplinary needs of their children. She warned, "If the mother who embarks on home and marriage underemphasizes the home, it is inevitable that the husband, the children, and the community in the 719 end will follow her lead and all will suffer proportionately." The Manpower Council summarized the situation by saying, "What all this means to the home and family has not been validly appraised. Research, study, and time are all needed." CERTAINLY women are facing a curious combination of certainty and uncertainty. The choice between their homes to the exclusion of a career outside the home and their homes plus a career outside the home is one of the most pressing questions before women today. Latter-day Saint women are not immune to present-day trends, attitudes, opinions, influences, and practices in these matters. I say this, my sisters, by way of warning. However, there are no women in all the world so well positioned to make wise decisions with regard to them. They have the doctrine and teachings of the Church to guide them. They know the essential elements of good home and family life. 'They know the factors that are important in the well-being of children. 'They also know where to place their values. They must be concerned with long-range consequences, eternal values, not with short-run gains. To bear and rear children, for a mother to feel the dependence upon her of husband and family, to know that upon her rests, in large measure, the health, character, and the happiness of human beings whom she has brought into the world and for whom she is responsible, to see herself laying and preserving the foundations of so basic and necessary a structure as a family, to build so that this family will be of service to 720 the Church, society, and the Republic, is a responsibility of greatest magnitude. The Latter-day Saint mother knows that no other work to which she might set her hand could be so broad and inspiring, so filled with interest, so demanding of intelligence and capability, so rewarding. Moreover, the Latter-day Saint mother knows that hers is a divine calling; that she was created and placed on earth to be the mother of spirits that were created by our Heavenly Father to come to this earth and prove themselves whether or not they would obey all the comRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 mandments which the Lord their God should give them. She knows that this is her great and _ all-important mission. Everything else is subordinate to it. Blessed are women in this day who have this knowledge. May the Lord bless Latter-day Saint mothers that all of their decisions in relation to their homes and their families may be made in the full light of the knowledge which they possess. And may they fulfill their divine calling to the eternal joy and well-being of themselves and their families—I sincerely pray. > As Jangible As Grass Eva Willes Wangsgaard Today I lived a miracle, For Beauty's self grew tangible. She walked so airy, tall, and proud I saw her reach and touch a cloud. The iridescent-breasted dove Revealed her one with Peace and Love. Her motion caught in swallow flight Was garlanded across the light; And in a robin's song I found That beauty wore the form of sound. Where birch trees dangled leafy lace I learned her other name was Grace; She tripped among the garden blooms All petal color and perfumes. While up the mountain range's length Her name was limned in silent Strength. Wherever else I saw her pass She lived as tangible as grass. She touched my eyes, my every part; I felt her pulse flow from my heart. The Grand Key-Words of Relief Society Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (Address Delivered at General Session, Relicf Society General Conference, October 8, 1958). WO months after the Relief Society was organized, the Prophet Joseph Smith again met with the sisters. He counseled, "Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' 'These are the grand key-words for the society to act upon." These inspired words are the mainspring of Relief Society work today. The work done by Jesus was a work of service for everyone who lives in this world. He spent the entire time of his mortal ministry in service to others; he devoted himself unceasingly to bringing light and truth to his fellow beings. He had no home of his own. To a certain man who said, "Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest," Jesus replied, "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head" (Luke 9:57-58). In his ministrations, Jesus served those who sought him. You will recall that when one said to him, "Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee," Jesus answered, "Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my _ brother, and sister, and mother' (Mt. 12:47-50). And at another time Jesus advised, "Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant." If we would do the work which Jesus did, we must serve one another. A Relief Society member has an obligation, first of all, to serve her husband and those of her own household. She engenders a spint of love and service in her home as she respects the Priesthood and ministers to her husband, upholding him as the head of the family and obeying him in righteousness. Her love reaches out to encompass her dear children. By example and precept she trains them, in turn, to serve their father and each other. The tender service which a mother gives in the home will light a straight path for her children to follow. A Relief Society member, however, if she does the work which Jesus did, will not confine her service to the members of her own family. She will not reply as did a certain widow, who when her friend asked her what she was doing, replied, "Oh, I'm just biding my time until I go to my husband." The work of Relief Society offers countless opportunities to serve others—to emulate the work which Jesus did. It may be to go into the homes of the sick, the sorrowing, the downhearted, the dependent, to encourage and enlighten. It may be to go from door to door carrying Page 721 the spirit of the gospel. It may be to labor physically to assist those less fortunate. It may be to lift the spirit—through song, through a kindly, understanding word, through a handclasp—through being one's sister's keeper. A mother of five children became discouraged and despondent. She felt alone and she did not seem able to manage with the means at her disposal. A neighbor reported the situation to the Relief Society president, who took the matter in hand. No longer did the sister feel alone. She was given understanding, friendliness, advice, and help, and a serious mental disturbance was averted. Relief Society "is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." When a sister reaches a crossroad, and the way before her is clouded, then Relief Society offers understanding and love to help clear the path ahead. Recently another sister needed a special type of home in which to live. Those who were interested suggested that there were many wards in which such a home could be found, but it was never the interested person's own ward. 'The grass over the hill always looks a little greener. Let us, as Relief Society sisters, realize that Relief Society is you and [. If someone in our ward needs a service, what about you and I being the ones to take the responsibility and not the sister on the next block, or in the next ward? Relief Society was instituted for the purpose of "looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." 'These services are the heart of Relief Society today, and are being fulfilled under the direction of the Priesthood. The question each one of us—and every Latter-day Saint wom- — an must answer, is "Am I doing my part?" A wonderful example of a special call for service which came to about seventy-five Relief Society members was given a few weeks ago. These sisters were asked to serve for four days from five o'clock in the morning into the afternoon. 'The first morning their eyes were sparkling and their smiles were cheery. The fourth day their smiles were just as cheery, although their eyes had taken on a look of patient endurance. The spirit had remained unchanged, however, obedient, kindly, unselfish, understanding, and loving. They were carrying out the grand keywords of the society. Outward conditions have changed since the days of Nauvoo, but the spirit of Relief Society continues the same. The words of the Savior remain: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren ye have done it unto me." May you and I live by this great truth, may you and I be one in love and charity, and may you and [ accept the calls that come to us to serve. May each of us act upon the grand key-words of Relief Society, "Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do,'" I pray. 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 The Key Is Turned Counsclor Louise W. Madsen (Address Delivered at the Annual Gencral Relief Society Conference, October 8, 1958) "T now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Socicty shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth...." HESE soul-stirring words _ of enduring import were spoken by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the sixth meeting of Relief Society, April 28, 1842. This prophetic action has had beautiful consequences for the women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We see the hand of the Lord, and the order of the kingdom of God, in that he to whom all keys were given should turn the key in our behalf. The Prophet was chosen to usher in the dispensation of the fulness of times. The word dispensation as connected with the Gospel of Jesus Christ means the opening of the heavens to men; the giving out or dispensing to them the word of God; the revealing to men in whole or in part the principles and ordinances of the Gospel; the conferring of divine authority upon certain chosen ones, by which they are empowered to act in the name, that is, in the authority of God, and for Him. That is a dispensation as relating to the Gospel; and the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times is the dispensation which includes all others and gathers to itself all things which bear any relation whatsoever to the work of God. Also it is the last dispensation, the one in which will be gathered together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in Him (D. II. C. 1, Introduction, page 25). "Christ is the creator and owner of the carth. But he appoints agents or stewards to act for him. To them he gives keys so they can open the doors of his storehouse for the benefit of all men" (McConkr, Bruce, Kelicf Society meas, March 1950, pages 149-150). These keys have two specific purposes. One is "the right of presidency," which is the right to direct all of the affairs of the Church; the other is "the way and means whereby knowledge and intelligence may be gained from God." Thus, the Prophet, by divine authority, using his key of presidency, turned the key in behalf of women, to unlock the doors and to open up the way whereby "knowledge and intelligence shall flow down" from heaven. He restored to them all that God intended they should have and gave to them eternal truth. In the beginning the Father created Eve as an "help meet" for Adam and gave her the right to share the blessings of his Pnesthood. 'The Savior, in his reign on earth, ennobled women and again placed them in the position to receive knowledge and _ intelligence. It seems right, therefore, that the "fulness of times" should have a "fulness" for women. It seems right that the restoration of all things should give to women their true position in the cternal plan. The turning of the key paved the way for the fulfillment of the prophecy of the Prophet Joel quoted again Page 723 by Peter on the day of Pentecost, "And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh.... And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit..." (Acts 2:17-18). Of great significance, also, is the Prophet Joseph Smith's use of the phrase "in the name of the Lord." We know that when a_ prophet makes a statement "in the name of the Lord," he is acting under revelation, and with the authority delegated to him to act in the position he holds. The question has been asked as to whether the women realize and appreciate the blessings that have come to them since the Lord directed the Prophet to turn the key for them. In answer, if we have not heretofore fully understood, let us follow the admonition the Savior gave the Nephites when he perceived that they had not comprehended all that he taught them: I perceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my words which I am commanded of the Father to speak unto you at this time. = Therefore, go ye unto your homes, and ponder upon the things which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may understand... (3 Nephi, 17:2-3). As we go into our homes and ponder these things in our hearts let us remember that we are blessed above all other women. "This Society shall rejoice," the Prophet promised. Indeed, the Relief Society was given us as an organization through which knowledge and intelligence can be meted out. We have been blessed in that more has been given to guide our lives. "Under the direction of the Priesthood," wisdom and inspiration have come to us. More has been given to teach us. The educational program of the Church encourages us to seek diligently for the kind of knowledge which builds faith. More has been given us to motivate our actions. The way and means have been provided for us to serve the Lord and our fellow men. President David O. McKay has said, ""Truly when the Prophet turned the key in the name of the Lord, he bestowed a power upon that organization {Relief Society] which has wielded an influence beyond comprehension by any individual" (McKay, Davin O., Relief Society Magazine, December 1953, page 790). The keys of the kingdom of God are committed to man on earth, and from them shall the gospel roll forth unto the ends of the earth—until it shall fill the whole earth. We are fortunate to live at this time when the gospel is being taken to many countries of the world. Relief Society, following the lead of the Priesthood, is becoming world-wide. Now, at this time, we have organized societies from Hong Kong to Tripoli, from Finland to South Africa and New Zealand, and many isles of the sea. The way is being opened for sisters in far-off lands to have the blessings of Relief Society membership. The key, which the prophet turned in their behalf, is giving women throughout the world blessings and opportunities. "There is not a remote hamlet in any part of this Church but is benefited by the lifting influence of the Relief Society" (McKay, Dav O., Relief 724 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 THE KEY IS TURNED Society Magazine, December 1953, page 790). The Savior gave his last instructions to his apostles, before his crucifixion, at the Last Supper. Knowing that Peter had not yet fully understood all he had been taught, Jesus gave to him this commission: "|... When thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren" (Luke 22:32). My dear sisters, let that commis- 725 sion be ours. "When thou art converted," when you know that the Prophet was acting under divine commission to turn the key in our behalf; when you know that this society is to serve the Lord; when you know that membership in Relief Society is a blessing to you; when you understand the magnificence of our opportunities and the extent of our responsibilities—strengthen your sisters! Oi we Song for Shanksgiving Grace Ingles Frost I thank thee, Heavenly Father, For the harvest autumn yields— The fruitage of the orchards And the bounty of the fields. I thank thee, too, my Father, For the autumn's regal grace, For habiliments of beauty, And the glory of her face. I thank thee, Heavenly Father, For all thy kindness sends; But most of all I thank thee For the gift of gracious friends, Young Mother Elsie McKinnon Strachan I knew her when her face was springtime-growing— A periwinkle ribbon in her hair; Exchanging talk with birds and flowers blowing, Her words were April patter on the air. And now she's summer! Young and lovely summer! The willow's lullabies, the robin's wings, And, oh, these shining, rose-blown hours become her Who folds her small one heaven-close and sings. Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 8, 1958) ELIEF Society is growing in numbers and accomplishments, and officers are to be commended for the wise and able direction they are giving to the work. All combine to bring about, under the direction of the Priesthood, a strong and growing organization blessed by our Heavenly Father. New General Board Members A recent change has occurred in the Gencral Presidency. Sister Helen Woodruff Anderson, appointed Second Counselor, January 2, 1957, was released August 11, 1958 to accompany her husband, Brother Alexander P. Anderson, who was called by the First Presidency to preside over the New Zealand South Mission. Our love and prayers are with Sister Anderson in her new field of labor. On August 11, 1958, Sister Elen Louise Wallace Madsen was named by the First Presidency to succeed Sister Anderson. Sister Madsen is well known to you through her eleven years of service as a General Board member. She is loved and admired by all who know her and brings great strength to the General Presidency in her new position. Sister Gladys Boyer who was named to the General Board on March 18, 1953, was released on August 11, 1958. Sister Boyer will serve as matron of the London Temple. We acknowledge with gratitude the service of Sister Boyer. Page 726 During 1957, three sisters were named to the General Board: Sisters Pearle M. Olson, Elsa Peterson, and Irene Woodford. The General Board now has a total membership of twenty-seven. Organizations and Rcorganizations Relief Society organizations are growing in number. At the close of 1957 there were 248 stake Relief Society organizations, an increase of thirteen over the previous year. There was a total of 4,133 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase of 195. 'There were forty-five missions, the same number as in 1956. During 1957 there were forty-cight reorganizations in the stakes, and eight in the missions. We welcome the new officers and wish them happiness in their callings. Membership There was a gratifying increase in the Church-wide Relief Society membership during 1957 of 10,714, making a total of 183,436 enrolled members. 'The membership gain for 1957 was 1,505 greatcr than the 1956 gain over 1955. Delighted as we are that so manv sisters have been enlisted as members, we still realize that our figures show there were 368,303 Latter-day Saint families, in each of which it is assumed there would be at least one sister eligible for Relief Society membership. Based on this premise we are reaching only 49.8 per cent, or approximately one-half of our po- REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS tential. When one considers the need of our sisters today for Relief Society, and the need of Relief Society for every eligible sister, continued, intensive effort in behalf of membership seems imperative. Meetings to Be Formally Conducted It is the feeling of the General Board that meetings should be conducted in the spirit of sisterly friendliness, but they should be dignified, formal meetings, conducted in accordance with the rules set for them. Executive officers should sit together in a place arranged for them as presiding officers. It is the feeling of the General Board that we should be in harmony with the teachings and general practices of the Church in using the terms "Sister' and "Brother" when addressing persons in our meetings. It is recognized that in some informal activities and associations there may be occasion when it is natural and desirable to address sisters by their given names, but in the regular Relief Society meetings, it seems proper to address a member as "Sister" and to use her surname. Attendance We note a slight increase in average attendance at meetings, it being 36.7 per cent for 1957, as against 36.1 per cent for the previous year. We are delighted to see so many young mothers in attendance. It has been found stimulating to the work and highly desirable to have the young mothers, with their richness of youth, their enthusiasms, interests, and skills, numbered with the mature women, with their rich life experiences, their wisdom, mature judgment, and firm testimonies. 727 Missions Through the missionary program of the Church. The work of Relief Society has been extended to the far corners of the world. It mav be of interest to you to know that on April 3, 1957, the first Relief Society was organized in Hong Kong in the Southern Far East Mission for the Chinese sisters. (There are now four Relief Societies there.) The Relief Society President wrote as follows: Nineteen Chinese ladies were present at the first meeting, and sixteen paid their membership dues the first day. They all are very eager to learn all about sewing and cooking. They felt a little slighted because the men have the Priesthood, and now they think it is wonderful to have something special for the women, too. To have a special organization for them really pleases them. We are very grateful for the Relief Society and for the joy it is bringing to the women here. Many splendid Relief Societies are being conducted by the wives of servicemen, some of them in very faraway places: for example, Libya and Okinawa. Many of these sisters are young mothers. We pray for their well-being. We know they are blessed through their Relief Society activities. The work of Relief Society in the missions is going forward along recommended lines, and great good is being accomplished. 'The members are serving one another. They are developing their talents and increasing their abilities. 'Their testimonies are growing strong under the influence of Relief Society. Welfare and Visiting Teaching It is not uncommon for us to say, "Welfare is the basic work of ae lief Society, and our original assign- ment from the Prophet." The record of our service during 1957 is creditable. 'There was a total of 344,183 hours contributed by the sisters to the Church Welfare Program upon assignment of Relief Society. There were 275,469 visits made to the sick and homebound, almost 20,000 more than the previous year. 'There were approximately 30,000 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given the sick on a volunteer basis upon assignment of Relicf Society presidents. Yet, when measured against the need for these services, I am wondering if we are doing all we could do, or all we should do. Never before in history have there been so many homebound, particularly homebound aged, among us. Are we exercising sisterly watchcare? Are we calling sufficiently often to cheer them? Are we willingly rendering them little, necessary personal services such as doing a little shopping for them, writing a letter for them, or similar kindnesses? Are we willingly giving a day now and then to put their homes in order as desired? Are we meeting our full responsibilities to the sick, particularly the convalescent, the young mother home from the hospital with a new baby, or the chronically ill? Are we sufficiently aware of and active in meeting the needs of the sorrowing and broken in spirit? These are traditional services of Relief Society, my sisters. We are all united in believing this to be our great work; yet, are we, in reality, giving to our great work the same degree of devoted, conscientious effort we are giving to other divisions of our work? There is no division of our work to which we may set our hands that will bring to us such great happiness in its fulfillment as the rendering of our so-called compassionate services. Let us not lose sight of the value of the visiting teaching program in meeting our responsibilities along these lines. Visiting teaching is far more than friendly calling at the homes. It is more than the discussion of the spiritual message in the homes, important as this is regarded by all of us. Visiting teaching is monthly coverage of Latter-day Saint homes designed primarily to keep ward Relief Society presidents, and through them ward _ bishops, apprised of the needs of families within the respective wards, so that none shall go unattended. Visiting teaching figures for last year are heartening insofar as the number of women engaged in the program is concerned, and the number of visits made. There were 75,928 visiting teachers, constituting 41.39 per cent of the membership, who made 3,125,813 visits, or an average of 8.49 per cent to each Latter-day Saint family. With regard to our activities in co-operating with the Church Welfare Program, may I remind you that stake Relief Society presidents and counselors designated to conduct the Relief Society departments at the bimonthly regional welfare meetings are referred to by the General Church Welfare Committee as "sroup leaders." 'The function of these group leaders is to help plan the agendas for the departments, submit them for approval to the executive committee of the regional council, and lead the discussions in the departments. The group leaders in the employment and work director departments have no jurisdiction over the other employment 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS or work director counselors. 'The group leader in the presidents' department has no jurisdiction over the other stake Relief Society presidents, except with regard to their assigned responsibilities in the clothing program as outlined in the clothing bulletin. She should not of her own volition initiate programs involving the other presidents, nor should she commit them to any action or program. We further remind you that the Relief Society departments of the bimonthly regional welfare meetings are for the purpose of considering Church Welfare matters only. Other aspects of Relief Society work have no place there. In addition we appeal to you sisters, when requests are made by persons Or groups other than our own for cash or commodity contributions or service from Relief Society, to refer the request to the General Board. Education Program The education program is a highly important factor in the growing membership of the Society and in the general success of the regular meetings. Courses of study are well received. The quality of work being done by the 15,065 class leaders is commendable. Only one new course is being introduced—a course in American literature entitled "Meet the New World." This new course lS very promising in terms of interest and value for Relief Society members. Singing Mothers We are delighted with the growing interest in our Singing Mothers groups. At the close of 1957 there 729 was a total of 2,398 wards and branches with Singing Mothers choruses, with 35,923 singers participating in the choruses. Just a word of caution to presidents with regard to Singing Mothers choruses. We must safeguard them so they will not become organizations apart from Relief Society. Singers should not be asked to pay Singing Mothers membership dues, and the practice of making collections from the singers for music, flowers, and gifts is discouraged. Magazine Generally speaking, an excellent work is being done by stake and ward, mission and branch Magazine representatives. 'Ihe General Board, however, is feeling the need to intensify our efforts if we are to increase our subscriptions in proportion to our increased enrollment. The Magazine is essential to the Rehef Society program. Its content is indisputably good. It is one thing to publish a high standard Magazine, and another thing to distribute it widely to those for whom it is designed. 'The first is the responsibility of the General Board. The second is yours. At the close of 1957, the subscription list totaled 150,988. This was a very slight increase over the year before, not nearly in proportion to our increase in membership. In 1957 there were sixteen mussions and $59 districts and branches listed on the Honor Roll. There were 220 stakes and 1,854 wards. 'These latter figures reveal that twenty-eight stakes and 517 wards still must strive to obtain subscriptions equal to at least threefourths of their membership. Presidents, we call upon you to lend full support to the Magazine program for the benefit of your organizations and the sisters of the Church. Relief Society Building We are happy to report to you that your Relief Society Building ls a point of great interest to visitors coming to Salt Lake City. We feel it is a good missionary for Relief Society. Since the dedication of the building two years ago, there have been approximately 100,000 persons visit the building. The work of the Society is greatly facilitated through the convenient working conditions. We are thankful for the beautiful headquarters building. A Great Organization Sisters, we have a great organization; we have a great work to do. To those of us who are entrusted with leadership responsibilities, I say let us approach our callings humbly and prayerfully, with faith, confidence, and devoted effort. Let us be discreet in what we say and do, holding in strictest confidence those things which are confidential in nature. Let us look for the good and the strength in one another. Let us rise above petty slights and hurts, being big as our organization is big. Let us honor and be obedient to the Priesthood. Doing this, the Lord will bless us, and our administrations will be happy and fruitful ones. May the choice blessings of the Lord be with you all and with the wonderful women who comprise the membership of Relief Society throughout the world, I sincerely pray. Like a Kernel Vesta Nickerson Lukei A poem is like a kernel of wheat Which needs the fragrant soil, the heat Of sun, the timeliness of rains Before the planted seed attains Completion in the heavy head Of swaying grain, husk-bonneted. - A poem, wheat-like, grows with time Into perfection — rhythm, rhyme, And words slow-winnowed from the store Of wealth that is the poet's lore. Prairie Autumn Bernice Ames With flaxen heads wind-bent The range grass subtly smooths to sky With nothing between to jar the eye; Wave after wave, unshored, Until a covey of partridge lifts A spiral of flight from the grassy drifts, Or in the blue distance a fringe Of ears where hidden antelope lay, Their wheat-rippled motion folded away. 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 The Right Climate Vera H. Mayhew pub HIS work meeting is the hardest one we have to plan," Stella Graves said, as she tapped her tecth with the pencil that should have been writing down suggestions. Only no one made any suggestions. The other three women secmed as fresh out of ideas as Stella herself. "T think we make it harder for ourselves than we need to," Marge Sanders said. "Every month Stella just knocks herself out." "How do you mean harder? We have a discussion to lead. We have a luncheon to prepare; we have skills to teach. Now, how can you make it harder?" Stella looked at Marge out of snapping black eves. "T mean why have a luncheon? The P. T. A. Board, the Dental Auxiliary board, and the Handicapped Children's committee all have allday meetings. We just put a sandwich in our bags, and if we need to work nght through we can. I can't go for all these frills." "Hmmm, you have something there," Stella said, and looked at Melba Chase. "You're in charge. What do you say we try an easier way and see how it works?" Melba was silent for a minute, as if she hardly knew how to put her thoughts into words. When she did speak her voice was as gentle as her face. "The work meeting is a little hard to plan because, as Stella mentioned, it has three aims, and they have to be correlated. It is a day for learning, though, like all the other days, and we can fit each of the three aims into that big one, learning. We learn better ways to handle our jobs as women, as mothers; we broaden our skills by learning how to do something that we couldn't do before, or at Icast how to do it better. But the most important thing we have the opportunity to learn, is something of the hearts of people, our sisters. I don't want to preach, but I think that's why we have the luncheon, and somehow I can't feel that a sandwich in a bag from home is very helpful in promoting friendship, especially when the sisters sew mornings and early afternoons." Marge didn't say anything, and, after a minute, Stella said, "Well, luncheon it is. Now come up with suggestions, please." Melba smiled, "This week's meeting is planned, and you have a whole month before the next one. If you don't mind, Stella, I'd like you and Marge to change jobs for this month. I'd like Marge to take over the luncheon." "T try to make it easier for Stella and end up by giving her a complete vacation," Marge said ruefully. Stella reminded her, "You know Pll help in any way I can." "T didn't mean for you to do all the work," Melba said, "just plan it. Ask anyone you wish to help." "Work day for the drones," Marge said, and her tone was not entirely good- -natured. - a io os ie N spite of her flippant words and small feeling of rebellion, Marge knew she had been given a challenge and she couldn't decide just Page 73] 732 what it was that Melba wanted to show her. Does she think I'm lazy or that I don't understand the objectives of the work meeting? She asked herself. As Marge prepared dinner for her family that night her mind was filled with menus that might work for the Relief Society luncheon, and with the names of women she might ask to help. There was Nola Gardner, but everyone thought of her when there was anything to do and, in spite of her five children, Nola was always willing to help. I won't ask her, Marge thought, I'll meet this challenge all the way and get a whole committee that has never helped before. Sounds big, but how do I go about it? She found herself looking at the women in the ward with different eyes. At Sunday School, when the roll came to her to sign, she glanced at all the names already written there. Now which of these women has a talent I don't know about, and how will I find out about them? She mused. The first answer to her problem came the next day when she went teaching with Nola Gardner, because Nola's regular companion was out of town. They walked up the path to the front door of a small house. A wide flower bed bordered the path, and the house was almost covered with flowering shrubs. "Sister Furness really has a 'green thumb," Nola remarked. "Every time we come teaching, her garden looks like this." "I don't believe I know her," Marge said. "She has never come to Relief Society. We got her name from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 the ward clerk. She seems willing enough to have us come, but she just isn't interested in anything." "She is interested in gardening, evidently," Marge said. The small brown-skinned woman, with work-stained hands, who answered their knock greeted them pleasantly enough, but, as Nola had said, she had hardly a word to say. Marge cast about in her mind for a way to begin the conversation, looking about the room for a clue to Sister Furness' interests. On a low table by the fireplace was one of the most beautiful flower arrangements Marge had ever seen. "You certainly are artistic, Sister Furness," she said. "Your garden is beautiful, but the way you have brought the beauty inside is even more wonderful." Sister Furness glowed with pleasure. "There're not many to see my flowers," she said, "but I have to have them outside and inside. 'That's about all I have left." She caught her lip as if she had revealed too much. "T've been asked to supervise the luncheon at Relief Society next work meeting. If you'd decorate the tables, I'm sure it would be the most beautiful luncheon we have ever had," Marge said. "Td like to, but I don't know how I'd get my flowers to the Church," Sister Furness said, her voice uncertain. "You see I... 1 don't have a car any more." "Tl come and get you. About 9:30 the second Tuesday morning." Sister Furness seemed to be trying to find another excuse. 'Then she answered Marge's waiting smile with one of her own and said firmly, "Tl be ready." THE RIGHT CLIMATE After that it seemed to Marge almost as if she were led to people who had a special talent and would be glad to use it for Relief Society. Only a day or two after her visit to Sister Furness, she stood at the check counter of the supermarket behind a woman she had seen at Relief Society a few times. "You go ahead, Sister Sanders," the woman said. "I have such a full basket, I'd keep you waiting a long time." "Why thank you, that's very kind," Marge said. "It does look as if you're one of the market's best customers." "Tt isn't always this way. I'm making baked beans for the cub pack meeting. 'This isn't beans," she laughed. "It's all that goes with ite "Is it something special, the recipe, I mean?" "T don't know whether it's special. It's one my great-grandmother used, and my husband thinks it's wonderful. He's pack master and asked me to do this." "Now you've given me an idea. I've promised to take care of the next work meeting luncheon. Maybe you'd make your bean dish and part with the recipe so that some of us could help you." "Well... I didn't mean to put myself forward. But if you really want me to, I'll be happy to make enough for the crowd. I can do it in my electric roaster." She seemed oddly pleased to be asked, Marge thought as she picked up her bag of groceries and said, "Tl get in touch with you." Then she couldn't remember the woman's name. I'll have to watch out for her and ask someone, she thought. 733 I wonder how it is that IT know so few people. I've lived in the ward three years and if it hadn't been for my school friendship with Stella Graves, I probably wouldn't know anyone. That was a disturbing thought. It suggested that she was just sort of skimming the surface of life. I'm plenty busy, she thought. I go every place I'm supposed to and do everything I'm asked. Do I just care about activity and not about people? Is that what Melba wanted to show me? She began to pay more attention to people in the ward. As the deacons went down the aisles on Sunday she tried to place each boy with the proper parents. She worked hard at remembering names. OX the morning of work meeting Marge was amazed at the armloads of things Sister Furness carried out to the car. She had expected a box or basket of flowers but not so many things. "T didn't know whether you had tablecloths, so I brought my own," Sister Furness said. "We usually cover the tables with white paper that can be rolled up and thrown away," Marge answered. "Tl use mine. I chose the ones that match the flowers." Marge didn't know what to answer. Sister Furness talked as if she had unlimited tablecloths, and her shy manner and small house didn't indicate that sort of woman. Later, as Marge helped put up tables and cover them, she learned a little about the small, shy woman. "I used to entertain a great deal when my husband was living," Sister Furness said. "We had collap- (Continued on page 782) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, Novembcr 1, and November 15, 1898 P » 109 "Por pur Ricuis or tire WomMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or ALL Nations" GENERAL RELIEV SOCIETY CONFERENCE: President Zina D. H. Young spoke a few words of cheer and comfort to the sisters and bore a strong testimony of the truth of the Latter-dav work.... She spoke further upon humility and overcoming by the powcr of the testimony of the truth until we shall be able to sing the song of the redeemed.... President Jane S. Richards urged the sisters to be faithful m attending their mectings.... Advised the sisters to hold their meetings at the time appointed, the angels might be there waiting. Counsclor B. W. Smith referred to the bountcous harvest and the great necd of laying up grain.... She urged the sisters to teach purity, truthfulness, virtue, and industry, don't go outside of your income, don't go into debt.... —FE. B. Wells, Scc. POLITICS AND WOMEN: Current politics affect the lives and homes of women af various points.... However closely a woman may entrench herself inher home and proclaim her difference to politics, the burdens, penaltics, and results of politics will in some way find her out. Law and government are politics crystallized into power. 'The quality of city and state laws and the character of national policy are determined by the elections and the men elected.... —Sclected AUTUMN What we prize so quickly fades, All we love must someday die, Even thou must leave us soon, And soar above yon azure sky, 'There summertime with garlands fair A crown will make which thou shalt wear. —Nina Winslow Eckart THE CASTLE MOUNTAINS (UTAIT): Up the mountain, through the canvons, down into the valleys, always failing to find the best road.... Here we are on the buckboard slats, so well and aptly named, as we are thoroughly bumped in nding over the many undulations.... These are the Castle Mountains! 'This beautiful chain now full in view challenges our admiration.... 'Uhe mountains are appropriately named, for they indecd resemble castles.... Golden shadows of light reflect below them showing off their grand designs.... In meditation we gaze on these vast and wondcrful piles of rocks and their solemn silence guards well their secrets of long ago.... —Lydia D. Alder THE DESTINY OF WOMEN: Woman's hour has struck — there is no denying that truth. It is everywhere apparent, and the time is hastening on when the women of this intermountain region will be able to prove the grcat intellectual and moral as well as spiritual strength that has come to them through the forces operating in their behalf to fulfill the prophecics that have been made in years gone by with regard to this chosen land. —KEditorial c 72 Page 734 Mss BERTHA ADKINS of Washington, D. C., was recently appointed Under Secretary of Education, Health, and Welfare, by President Eisenhower; and Mrs. Barbara Bates Gunderson of Rapid City, South Dakota, was appointed to the three-member Civil Service Commission. President Eisenhower has appointed more than one hundred women to important official positions since he took office. ELEN HINCKLEY JONES, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has written, in cooperation with Najmeh Najaf, Reveille for a Persian Village. 'Vhis book, a sequel to Persia Is My Heart, has been highly praised by many critics and has been called "as moving an account as one can find in literature of Asia's villages." R. IDA B. ALSETH, newspaperwoman from Lake Preston, South Dakota, spent last year in an American school for girls in Istanbul, Turkey. She reports that the people are very progressive and most friendly to Americans, opening their homes to them freely and showing eagerness to learn of all things American. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MES. MARY BOOTS MANN, Louisville, Kentucky, and Mrs. Evelyn Boots Madsen, Yokum, Texas, twins, born in November 1858, will celebrate their one hundredth birthdavs together in Louisville this November. ISS EDITH HAMILTON, famed Amcrican classical scholar, has made ancient Greece come alive with the utmost fascination to modern Americans through — her books, The Greek Wav and Ichoes of Greece. In August 1955, in an old Greek theater, Miss Hamilton, now go, was ccremoniously made an honorary citizen of Athens. Deeply touched, she referred to Greece as the mother of beauty and of thought —and, most important, the mother of freedom. RS. AGNES KLEIN is VicePresident of the Grolicr Society, the largest publishers of reference books in the world. In 1936, Mrs. Klein's husband died, and in order to support her children, she began selling books from door to door. From this self-employment, she gradually worked her way up to her present position of executive responsibility. Page 735 DIT ORIAL ~~ VOL. 45 NOVEMBER 1958 NO. 11 Accepting a Call to Servi "QISTER Jones, we are in need of a _-- in our Relief Society, and we would like very much to have you accept this position. The bishop (stake president) has given us permission to ask you." Only one who has experienced such a request knows what the feelings of that sister may be. She may think, "Oh, I could never do that," or "That will mean an awful lot of work," or "That is the very office I have tried to avoid all these years," or "Someone else could do it much better."". Any one of these feelings may struggle for expression; but the one who is called to a position need voice only one reply, "I will do the best I can and will be happy to try to fill the position satisfactorily." Basic to this attitude of a Relief Society member is the exercise of faith. First there is the knowledge that the call for her to serve in this particular position came from the Lord through the proper channels. One is not called to serve the individual who requests the service in behalf of Relief Society, one is called to serve the Lord in assisting to accomplish the work given to the Relief Society to do. In view of this consideration alone, any Latterday Saint woman would consider a request seriously and prayerfully before declining to serve. The impulse to decline a calling because of inability, in one's own estimation, to fill the calling as well as another sister, calls for the furPage 736 ther exercise of faith. When one humbly accepts a position, she relies on the inspired words of Nephi, "T will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them" (I Nephi 3:7). So far one has accepted the call to serve based on faith that the call has come from the Lord and that he will inspire, enlighten, and support one in the fulfillment of the call. But, as the weeks pass, one realizes the growth that is taking place in oneself — the increase in knowledge and overcoming of personal weaknesses. 'Then there is borne in upon the soul the truth that the Lord is Father of us all. He knows what each one of his spiritual children needs for development and perfection. As one is humble and teachable, accepting of opportunities to serve, doing the will of those placed over one in authority, one becomes a partaker of the further words of Nephi, "he that is righteous is favored of God" (I Nephi 17:35). Instead of considering the work one is doing as alone helping the Lord, one awakens to the conviction that through fulfilling the service, one is being favored with the opportunity to grow, develop, and improve oneself. Instead of a EDITORIAL spiritual shrinking through inactivity, the spirit enlarges. 'Through association with the sisters in the ward and stake, understanding and tenderness for them increase, realizing the truth of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith to Relief Society. "You must enlarge your souls towards each other, if you would do like Jesus, and carry your fellowcreatures to Abraham's bosom" (D. H. C. LV:606). No matter how zealous one may be in serving the Lord, one remains in debt to him. As one increases 737 in service and faithfulness, so much the more does the Lord shower blessings on the righteous, hearing and answering prayers, and leading one along the path of eternal life. The words of Benjamin are burned into one's heart: "He {the Lord| doth require that ye should do as he hath commanded you; for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless you; and therefore he hath paid you. And ye are still indebted unto him, and are, and will be, forever and ever (Mosiah 2:24). —M. C. S. Sha nksgivin g Mabel Law Atkinson There is assurance In a head bowed low And worn hands folded In a pattern old hands know Before a table Spread with simple fare— There is assurance In a grateful prayer. She Auditing (Triple Cinquain ) Maryhale Woolsey Sometimes The child I was Calls past the years to ask The fate of dreams a child heart dreamed For me. Would eyes Child-wide and clear Show disbelief and hurt And see in change, betrayal of A trust? Or would A child's pure faith See through, and recognize The altered shapes of dreams that came To pass? Ki ootsteps Annie M. Ellsworth God made the mountains and the trees, The rippling waters, cooling breeze; The scented flowers, every kind, Each blade of grass and climbing vine. He frames the clouds and sends the rain The ripened fruit and golden grain. Designs the deserts, rolling seas; The far-flung forests, sun-kissed leaves. He makes the sunsets in the west, The blue horizons, mountain crest; The fertile valleys, purple hills, The rosy summers, dancing rills. In every clime, and every land, One sees the touch of the Master's hand. Wotes. TO THE FIELD Chime Gifts for Relief Society WD onsen PECIAL Relief Society gifts for the women on your Christmas list are available at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Included are the following items, any one of which would make an appropriate and treasured Christmas remembrance: THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING SOUVENIR PLATE A ten-inch plate made of exquisite Staffordshire china, with a border design of golden wheat, centered by the official Relief Society seal, with its motto "Charity Never Faileth." Portraits of the nine General Presidents of Relief Society circle the plate around the central motif—a lovely picture in full color of the Relief Society Building. Price $3.50, including postage. "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" A beautifully illustrated book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., containing six chapters which narrate the journey of Jesus from Nazareth to Jerusalem, the temple sacrifices on the day of the Passover, and the appearance of Jesus in the temple. This scholarly volume is written with great precision and beauty of language, and authoritative interpretation. The paper is of excellent quality, and the book is bound in dark blue fabricoid, with gold lettering of the title. Price $2, including postage. PICTURES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING Black and white glossy prints: OO i ln$3.00 ay a" Ths x a wotetenee tees nceee ste eec secon nenenenescecnacenttee ces 1.75 MO _ e 1.00 _—- Conlon Ward and Branch Organizations Listed in Annual Report August 1958, page 528 Attention is called to the correct figures for this report: 1957 1956 Increase 'Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) -................-.- 4,133 3,938 195 In Stakes... 2,371 2,281 go In Missions 1,762 1,657 105 Page 738 Da nger— Cu rve Atead DANGER curves ahead! Be Honest with Yourself N every lifetime pathway, there are dangerous curves ahead. There are unknown problems and sorrows to be encountered, and there are wayside perils where a wise decision must be based upon a pattern of thought and action firmly developed in each traveler. The road of life is in truth a journey where the present vision may be clouded occasionally, and one must face the future with faith in the signs and directions which have been given for guidance. Knowing the destination of our journey and the steadfast promise of eternal life in companionship with our loved ones in the light of the Saviors kingdom, then the curves on the carthly pathway may be traveled with spiritual composure and with the security of a known and charted direction. It is a blessing to us and a manifestation of the Father's concern for his children that he has given us a plan of life in which. Each facet of the eternal design is patterned for the direction and growth of the earth traveler from childhood to the farewell vears. 'Though the particular manifestation of each curve on the pathway cannot be discerned in advance, still the ways of guidance are given, and lifc 'iieetise be comes not a temporary path beset with darkness, but rather an illuminated journey toward an everlasting destination. It is a moment of sacred import when parents bring a child before the Priesthood in fast mecting to be given a name and a father's blessing, for this is the beginning of aul guidance and spiritual security within the gospel plan. 'The receiving of a name and a blessing is the first step, and as the child grows, his awakening mind and spirit are tcnderly cherished by parents and teachers. 'The child learns to love his Sunday School class, his Primary activities, and he comes to the time of baptism with his pattern of life directed towards a wise and rewarding solution of his problems. He then goes forward in the family pattern and in the auxiliary orgamizations guided by the gospel and given courage and conviction to face all the dangerous curves that lic ahead in his life. 'Thus the gospel is like an lumi nation, a glorious light which reveals the pathway through each succeeding phase of life, and eventualh carries the traveler to the end of the earth journey, not in sorrow and regret, but with a joyful certaimty of i. Direction and his destination. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Pag Festive Foods for Sun and Fancy Maren E. Hardy HE holiday season is swiftly upon us, and it goes just as quickly, leaving memories of happy times with family and friends. A special touch to your holiday menus lends the unmistakable air of festivity. Whether it is making spiced cider for the fireside group or creating a light fruit cake for the aesthetic effect at your Christmas buffet, you will enjoy trying something different. Licut Fruit Cake 1 Ib. Butter 1 |b. Brazil nuts halved 1 dozen eggs 2 lbs. White raisins 2 Cc. Sugar 1 Ib. Candied cherries 4 ¢. Flour 1 lb. Candied pineapple in three colors 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 |b. Peel (citron or orange ) grated rind and juice of 1 lemon few drops of cinnamon oil. Cut pineapple slices in eighths, dice peel, leave cherries whole and mix with % of flour. Mix butter and sugar. Add egg yolks then lemon juice and rind. Add remainder of flour sifted with baking powder. Add cinnamon oil, nuts, and fruits. Beat the egg whites and add last. Have four pans ready, lined with greased waxed paper. Fill with batter and decorate before baking with whole pecans, cherries, and pineapple saved out from batter. Bake at 300 degrees for 2 hours. Cool on cake racks. Texas Date Cake has the reputation of being that favorite fruit cake. Wrap a loaf and tie with a red ribbon for a special gift. Do the same with Cranberry Bread. Texas Date CAKE % Vb. Plain candied pineapple cut in 1 Cc. Sugar small wedges 1 c. Flour % Vb. Candied cherries halved 4 eggs 1 lb. Whole shelled pecans 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 Ib. Dates cut in fourths- 1 tsp. Vanilla Beat eggs. Sift flour, sugar, and baking powder together. Pour over cut fruit and nuts. Run hands through mixture until fruit is coated. Add beaten eggs. Pack into greased tube pan or 3 half-size loaf tins. The batter is stiff so pack well imto corners. Bake 1 hour at 300 degrees, CRANBERRY BREAD a 1 ¢. Sugar 4 ¢, orange juice 1 egg 2 tbsp. Water 2 c. Flour 2 tbsp. Melted butter 1 tsp. Soda 6 ¢. Cranberries (cut in half) 5 tsp. Baking powder 6 c. Coarsely chopped nuts % tsp. Salt SIESS Beat egg and add sugar. Add sifted flour, soda, baking powder, and salt. Add orange juice and water, then melted butter. Add cranberries and nuts. Bake I hour and 10 minutes at 325 degrees. Cool on racks. Wrap in foil and store in refrigerator. Makes 2 half-size loaves. Page 740 FESTIVE FOODS FOR FUN AND FANCY 74l Better THan Butrer 1 Ib. Soft butter (must be butter) 1 c. Whipping cream 1 egg Whip in mixmaster adding cream gradually. Use as a spread on fruit and nut breads. Store in refrigerator. Carrot Pudding is a perennial favorite. Herc is a tried and true formula. STEAMED Carrot PuppING 1 Cc. Raw carrots grated % ¢. Whole-wheat flour 1 C. Raw potato grated 1 tsp. Cinnamon % c. Raisins 1 tsp. Nutmeg % c. Dates 1 tsp. Cloves 2 tbsp. Melted butter 1 tsp. Salt % c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Soda ¥% c. White flour Grind raisins and dates together. Combine all ingredients and mix thoroughly. Turn into buttered casserole or can. Place in pan containing a little water. Cover pan and steam one hour or until done. ANGEL SAUCE % c. Butter 1 unbeaten egg white 2 c. Powdered sugar "2 ¢. Heavy cream whipped % tsp. Nutmeg flavoring 3 tbsp. Boiling water Put butter, sugar, and nutmeg in a bow] and add the boiling water. Mix and add egg whitc. Beat until creamy and fluffy. Fold in whipped cream and flavor to taste. Refrigerate until served. Your holiday salad should be something special. Try these for color. CRANBERRY Mot3p 1 can whole cranberry sauce 1 c. Boiling water 2 small oranges, ground "4 tsp. Salt 1 pkg. Lemon jello Dissolve jello and salt in boiling water. Add cranberry and oranges. Fill large or individual oiled molds half full and chill until set. SECOND MIXTURE: 2 three-ounce pkgs. Philadelphia 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple cream cheese 24 marshmallows, cut small 1 Cc. Mayonnaise 1 ¢. Cream whipped Cream cheese well and add mavonnaise, pineapple, and marshmallows. Fold in cream. Finish filling molds. Lime JEwet Saab 2 No. 2 cans crushed pineapple (drained 2 pkgs. Lime jello juice of pineapple and water to 2 pkgs. Lemon jello make 1 cup) 4 c. Boiling water 2 to 3 cucumbers, finely chopped 2 c. Cold water seeds of 1 pomegranate (optional) juice of 1 lemon 1 ¢. Whole pecans 742 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 Dissolve jello in hot water. Add cold water and pincapple juice, lemon juice, and pineapple. When chilled to thickening stage, add cucumbcr, pomegranate seeds and nuts. Mold in an extra large ring mold that serves 16 or in two smaller ring molds. Unmold on bed of water cress and serve with sour cream dressing. Sour Cream DRressiInG io & c. Sugar juice of 4 lemon 4 tsp. Corn starch % tsp. Grated Iemon pecl 2 ¢. Water "% pt. Sour cream Combine sugar and corn starch and add water and cook over heat, stirring constantly. When thickened, add lemon juice and peel, then cool. Fold desired amount mto sour crcam. The center attraction of many an open house is a good punch. These hot beverages will hit the spot on a cold evening. Hor CranBerry PuNCcH 1 pt. Bottles cranberry juice 12 whole cloves c. Water 1 c. Lemon juice c. Sugar Ys ¢. Orange juice sticks cimnamon kerP NW Combine cranberry juice, water, and sugar. Stir to dissolve sugar and heat to boiling point. 'Tic spices in a gauze bag and add cranberry juice. Simmer 20 minutes and then remove spice bag. Just before serving add fruit juices. Serve hot. Makes 18 servings. WILLIAMSBURG SPICED CIDER 4 c. Sweet cider or apple juice 1 stick cinnamon 1 tsp. Whole allspice juice and rind of 1 lemon 8 whole cloves Heat to boiling. Then simmer 30 minutes. Strain and reheat. Surprise your guests with something completely new. The Chevy Chase Ward Relief Society of the Washington (D. C.) Stake featured Fruit Compote at the closing social last spring. It was beautiful in a crystal punch bowl and only the complement of a simple nut bread was needed to make up a delicious and different refreshment. Fruit Compote 1 pkg. Frozen raspberries 1 c. Frozen pineapple chunks 1 pkg. Frozen peaches 1 pt. Lemon ice (not milk) sherbet 1 pkg. Frozen blueberries Slightly thaw fruit — but not completely. Fold in sherbet quickly just before serving. Serve in punch cups and eat with a spoon. You Gn Saw IK. Ied Sacings Jean R. Jennings BYVERYONE who sews sooner or later encounters the need to know how to make facings. More often than not it comes sooner than you would expect, since a large majority of clothes have some part that is finished with a facing. A facing is primarily a method of finishing an edge. 'There are other types of edge finishes, but facings also support the shape so they are used most frequently. When done properly, they do not show and always lie perfectly flat. This lesson will concern itself with fitted facings rather than those cut on the bias. Fitted facings are most frequently used and are cut to match the garment in both shape and grain. Every fitted facing should be cut on the same grain line as the piece it faces and should be accurately cut to the same shape. For a completely satisfactory facing there should be no deviation from this rule. Fitted facings are invaluable for finishing such sections as collars, cuffs, neck edges, shaped pockets, and lapels. Fitted facings can be cut from the garment pattern unless the garment is refitted or the edges to be faced are revised after the garment has been put together. In this case the facing should be cut following the garment itself. However, facing patterns are generally furnished when a commercial pattern is used. By cutting the facing from the dress itself, it is possible to reduce the bulk caused by darts and seam lines, especially if the facing extends only a short distance from the edge. Shoulder seams in facings for necklines and side seams in facings for lower edges of jackets should be retained. It is important to remember that these seams must be joined in both the facing and the dress and then pressed open before the facing is applied. Pin the facing to the section to be faced with nght sides together. Be sure it lies flat and fits exactly. Pin in place, matching seams carefully. Baste and then stitch. Clip seams at all inside corners and inside curves and notch the seams of outside curves such as scallops and curved collars. At points or corners of collars and cuffs or pockets, be sure to trim off all excess seam allowance, in order to avoid butk when facing is turned back. Facings should never show from the right side, so be careful to roll the seam back a little and_ baste carefully. Seam allowances on sections that are faced should be trimmed with one edge narrower than the other or staggered so that they do not fall together, thus avoiding a ridge. The seam allowance of the facing is usually cut a bit narrower than that of the garment. If an interfacing is used, its seam allowance is entirely cut away. On edges where stitching on the inside will not be seen, turn the facing to the wrong side and stitch through the facing and the two seam allowances very near the seam line. This makes the edge less likely to stretch and prevents the facing Page 743 744 from turning out to the right side. The free edges of facings are usually finished in two ways: by stitching near the raw edge and pinking, or by turning under the raw edge and edge stitching. The method used depends on the weight and firmness of the fabric. No ridge should show through. Slip stitch or tack very lightly to the garment. Faced slits are frequently used to provide openings for garments in which both the center front and back of the blouse are cut on the fold. 'This is called a faced placket and is sometimes used on sleeves and full gathered skirts. A facing for a slit or placket on a blouse usually extends to form the front neckline facing. Since the opening is cut after the slit is faced, this construction is one of the first things to be done on the dress and precedes the first fitting. 'The facing should be cut to extend beyond the bottom of the slit as far as the width of the facing on either side of the slit. To apply, place the center line of the fitted facing to the center line of the garment, which has been marked with a basting the length of the planned opening. ~ With the right sides together, pin the facing in place and baste. Stitch from the garment side to 14 inch from the center line, using small machine stitches. Closely woven fabrics can be stitched closer to the center line than loosely woven ones. Curve in_ slightly when approaching the point and at the end of the slit turn and take one stitch over and return along the other side of the center line. In RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 this way, room is allowed to cut down to the bottom of the slit without cutting the stitches. On loosely woven fabrics reinforce the end of the slit without cutting the end of the slit with a second stitch over the first. Turn the facing to the inside and finish as instructed above. | GRAIN LINE FACING CURVE CLIP CORNER TURN EDGE J AND STITCH JOINING BIAS STRIPS "Not to the Swift' CHAPTER 5 Deone R. Sutherland Svnopsis: Julie Markham and her widowed mother lived in Chicago, where Julie was studying music. When her work at the music school was finished, Julie was offered a scholarship in New York City. However, she gave up the scholarship and married Professor Craig Carlson, a teacher at the school. They went West for their temple marriage and Craig began teaching in a small college. In the fall Julie found that she was expecting a child. RAIG'S and Julie's baby was C born in April. Julie told Craig that this beautiful time of the year was the perfect season for babies. 'The winter had passed quickly. Julie had continued singing with the ward choir and the Singing Mothers because she could sit in the back rows and not feel too conspicuous. But she didn't have time to feel lonely that winter. There began to be frequent visits to the house from Craig's students. Finally Craig and Julie decided on definite nights twice a month for the students to come. 'They also joined a social group composed of the faculty from the music department that met once a month. Craig made final arrangements with his mother to buy his grandmother's house. "We really have a home," Julie said happily when everything was taken care of at the bank. Craig looked contentcdly about the living room. "A home that's not only lovely, but has a_ definite character," Craig said pompously, trying to tease Julie a little. "No, seriously, this house does have a feeling, Craig, a kind of continuing-on feeling. I mean, no matter how much we've decorated or changed things, there's still a feeling of the families of the past and the families of the future in_ this house." Julie drew the drapes slowly, for it was time to turn on the lamps. "I know I'm being silly and imaginative, but sometimes I have a feeling that I've known your grandmother. Of course, it's just from the things you've said, but there's a gentle, loving feeling about the house." Craig put his hand on Julie's and stopped her from closing the drapes. For a moment they did not turn on the lights. The white snowy night outside gleamed palely through the window. "She was a gentle, loving woman, Julie, like you. 'The house was waiting for you." They finished two more bedrooms upstairs during that winter, one for the baby and one for Julie's mother. "If she will only come," Julie sighed. She had written asking her mother to come to stay with her after the baby was born. Her mother had written that she would try. But could make no promises. The first of the recitals of graduate students began in April, and Craig had to attend many of them. "You must come, too," Craig told her. "I would be too worried about you at home." But much as Julie enjoyed the music, the evenings began to be too tiring for her. "Tm really better off at home," Page 745 746 Julie told him. "T can call Sister Baer or any of our neighbors." "Tl have Sister Baer come over and sit with you," Craig said worriedly one evening, but Julie laughed. "T really don't need a sitter. Tl be all right. Besides, you're only gone two hours or less." Julie kissed him goodbye and leaned back on the sofa until the front door closed. She should catch up on her ironing. There were only those few things from this morning's washing, but she had rested most of the afternoon, so she had left them. She got up heavily from the sofa and avoided the mirror in the hall. She set up the ironing board in the kitchen and attached the iron. She carried the clothes in from the back porch. They would take only twenty minutes or so. 'There was a catch in her back again. She got the stool and sat down. It must be her weight that was making her back ache so unexpectedly tonight. Unless this was the time for the baby. Her heart began to pound. Craig had just left. She began to iron. She would watch the clock. Maybe those aches were coming regularly. 'They were. - — finished the ironing and put everything away. She walked slowly through the house. Everything was in order. She hated to leave the house, even for a few days. "Please let everything go all right," she whispered. She brought her suitcase and coat down to the front hall. Everything was ready. Well, she would phone Dr. Carter and alert him. "TP call the hospital," Dr. Carter assured her. "You come tight on in. 'Tell Craig not to drive RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 too fast; there isn't that much of a tush, but you can leave now. They'll call me when you get to the hospital." Julie put the receiver back on the hook. Craig had been gone a little over an hour. She hated to call. She waited another fifteen minutes. Vhen she dialed the number and listened to the lonely, unanswered rings at the other end. There would be no one in the box office, but surely someone would hear the call, would come out of the music hall and walk across the echoing foyer to stop the shrilling rings of the phone. It was not going to be answered. She would have to hang up and then what? "Hello, hello!" It was Craig's voice. Julie felt weak with relief. "Craig, darling, I'm sorry to disturb you, but...." "Tl be right home. Will you be all right until I get there?" Jule reassured him. She was perfectly all right now that she had heard his voice. She knew he would be there in plenty of time. She leaned back to wait. Everything was all nght. The ride to the hospital in the sparkling April evening began a series of sharp and wonderful memories for Craig and Julie. Their baby boy was born shortly after midnight. Drowsily Julie told Craig how beautiful he was, and Craig told Julie that there was no baby to compare with this one. Julie fell asleep holding Craig's hand. She awoke the next morning to the bustle of a hospital day and the miracle of a new baby. Craig's mother came over every day to help her after she came home from the hospital. And Craig was "NOT TO THE SWIFT" more competent than she had ever thought possible. The hurt because her mother had not come subsided with the wonder of the baby. 'There was nothing in the whole world to compare with this. It was harder after Craig's mother no longer helped her. Craig was very busy at school because of the rush at commencement time. Julie worked on a schedule to try to keep up with the housework, but baby Ralph Craig Carlson was oblivious to Julie's plans. As the months passed she wheeled him from room to room so she could straighten the house and keep him happy at the same time. She paused at the piano. "T spend more time dusting this piano than I do playing it," she announced ruefully to the round-eyed chubby Ralph. He looked back at her complacently and swung a dimpled hand in the air. She paused to watch him kick steadily out of his light blanket. Oh, there was no doubt, he was the smartest baby.... | ioral and August were hot, and the baby was fretful. "It's not his fault," Julie defended him. "He's just copying his mother." Craig was teaching summer school, and with another baby due next March, Julie hated to get up in the mornings. By October the nausea was a thing of the past, and Julie was singing occasionally again. She liked the winter here. Of course, it was drier in the West, but the best thing about the snow was its wonderful cleanness. How it sparkled on the hillsides and in the gardens. Julie sang at stake conference, her eyes resting briefly on Craig's mother smiling at baby Ralph on 747 her knees while Daddy played and Mama sang. She had such joy to sing about now. And the new baby they were expecting. Oh, how they would love him. The speaker was commenting on her singing, and now he was referring to her as a beautiful young mother. Julie had reclaimed Ralph, and he had gone to sleep against her shoulder. Yes, she loved singing, but this calling was greater than any other. If she could only make her own mother see. After conference, Miss Hightowers stopped her. Oh, yes, surely Julie remembered her. She had once taught Craig. Yes, she taught the fifth grade. Miss Hightowers wondered if it would be possible for Julie to come to the school. She would like her to sing in her class, Thursday or Friday afternoon would be fine, though Friday would be better. "Children should hear good music when possible." Sing to fifth graders! Julie had graciously agreed, but surely a roomful of squirming children.... What had her mother said, "They'll expect you to perform at impossible places for no reward, not even appreciation... She would ask Craig about this. Why, it wasn't even a school in the town, but one further out than they were. She could telephone and say she couldn't do it. 'That Miss Hightowers was definitely eccentric; look at the way she dressed—those long skirts and that old-fashioned hair style that hadn't been changed for how long? Craig smiled when Julie told him about the invitation. "Yes, she is a little different, but don't underestimate her. She's a real teacher. Mother can tend Ralph; she's always looking for an excuse to come see him. Id accept if I were you, Julie." joule drove the station wagon carefully through the snowy streets. 'The chains were on, but still it was shppery going, and it was a little frightening going up these hills. 'There was the school now, an old red brick building, square and ugly. She parked the car and picked up her music. Miss Hightowers had offered to accompany her on the piano, if necessary. Well, it would be necessary, she imagined, though what to sing was a real problem. Something light or semi-popular, she supposed. Something for children. She climbed the dark stairs, smelling the odor of snowsuits and damp rubber boots. It was a small country school; rooms five and six were upstairs. The door was open, and Julie caught sight of Miss Hightowers' wispy hair. She had evidently been reading and now had paused. She was seated in a straight-backed chair by the window. In a moment she began to read again. Julie had regained her breath after climbing the stairs, but now she must remove her boots and wraps. Anyway, Miss Hightowers surely had good control over her room. 'There was no noise except the rumbling sound of Miss Hightowers' voice. What was she reading to those children? Something from Manfred. Mont Blanc is the monarch of mountains; They crowned him long ago On a throne of rocks, in a robe of clouds, With a diadem of snow.... The voice paused and again there was no sound. Miss Hightowers was watching the snow outside the window. Finally a boy's voice asked, "Did somebody write those words, Miss Hightowers?" The teacher's eyes turned to the seat, to the boy, to the question, "Yes, someone named Lord Byron." Now Miss Hightowers was not reading. She leaned her head against the chair and finally her rich deep voice began again: The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself, Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve; And, like this insubstantial pageant faded, Leave not a rock behind. We are such stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life Is rounded with a sleep. Julie leaned against the coat rack in the hall. "Say it again, Miss Hightowers, one more time," a child suggested. Julie closed her eyes. Could she do anything for these children that would be comparable to this? Again a long pause and then a boy's voice. "Where can you find that to read, Miss Hightowers?" "In the Shakespeare book on my desk," the teacher answered. "T'll find you the place after class if you really want to see it." Now, she was quoting something by William Blake. No wonder Craig appreciated poetry now. He had had a teacher like this. It was past time for Julie to be there. She waited a moment and then came in the door. Miss Hightowers looked up at her vaguely for a moment, then smoothed at her wispy hair and came forward. But this time Julie saw the dark intelligent eyes behind the glasses, the long line of her forehead and the firm chin. This woman would know exactly 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 "NOT TO THE SWIFT" what anyone could really do, Julie felt. Julie took her hand briefly. Miss Hightowers said only, "Mrs. Carlson has come to sing to us for awhile this afternoon." ULIE felt her hands moisten. She was facing a group of fifth graders, and she was as frightened as she had ever been in her life. "Would you like the piano?" But Julie scarcely glanced at the brown wooden upright in the corner. "No, it isn't necessary, Miss Hightowers," and she smiled and relaxed and began to sing. Her music lay unopened on the desk. Afterwards, she was never sure just how she had decided the songs. Greig's "I Love 'Thee,' Dvorak's "Songs My Mother Taught Me," Mendelssohn's "On Wings of Song" —she sang to those listening children, children who listened because their teacher had led them to listen. Julie thought about Miss Hightowers. Perhaps such moments were possible with students because Miss Hightowers respected their ability to listen and appreciate. She gave them each that gift, that dignity. After school as she passed many children sliding and snowballing down the hill and heard their laughter and shouts to each other as she drove home, she wondered if she could have imagined the experience as being something more than it was. She was still puzzling over the afternoon when Craig helped her with the dishes. He laughed a little when she tried to tell him about the afternoon and how hard she had tried to sing her very best. "Yes," he smiled, 'that's Miss 749 Hightowers, she brings out that urge to do your best. 'To do something better than she's ever heard before. She always assumed I'd go on to college, do graduate work. She implied I had a certain talent for music. So, of course, I did. You couldn't disappoint her. But it wasn't simply music. Every individual endeavor was worthwhile, if you know what I mean...." Julie nodded her head slowly. "Yes, I think I see what you mean. I mean I felt it with her somehow. Then Julie laughed, "Mother would say that it's too bad such a woman is buried out here in the country." "Why?" Craig asked seriously, but the telephone was ringing in the hall. Craig dashed to get it before it awakened the baby. Julie folded the dish towels over the rack. Craig was calling her from the hall. She met him at the door. "Hurry, Julie, it's long distance. Now, don't get excited. It's person to person...." He made her sit in the chair, and after she had assured the operator that she was Mrs. Craig Carlson, her mother's voice came over the phone. "Julie, Julie, dear. Are you feeling well?" Julie assured her everything was fine; she was in the best of health, "Julie, Mr. Thayer says I'm going to be able to have two weeks off. No, not in March, I'm sorry to say. That's a terrible month with taxes and all. I'm flying out next week. Julie, can you hear me?" "Oh, Mother, that's wonderful. We'll meet you; just give me the plane and the time you're leaving. What time should you arrive?" It's Mother. After she hung up the phone, Craig was there to lean against. He put his finger against her lips. "PIL help houseclean every afternoon the rest of the week and all day on Saturday. I'll postpone my private lessons because this is a real emergency...." He was teasing her, but he knew how she felt. She didn't deserve such a perfect husband. Her mother would be seeing Ralph for the first time. Everything would have to go perfectly, for her mother was coming at last, and she would see how wonderful everything was. (To be concluded) Olive Rhoades Wrostenschow Enjoys Handwork Hobbies RS. Olive Westenschow, Salt Lake City, Utah, has crocheted doilies, tablecloths, vanity sets, and many other articles of exquisite workmanship, including a lovely bedspread. She specializes in making edgings of beautiful and unusual designs for pillowslips, dresser scarves, and other articles for household use and decoration. She has made sixteen hooked rugs, and many shag and braided rugs in colorful patterns, some of them in her own designs. She is an excellent quilter and loves to design quilt blocks and piece them into quilts of unusual patterns and fine stitching. For a time, she supported herself and her family by sewing and making and selling paper flowers. Mrs. Westenschow has been an active Church worker since young womanhood, and has held teaching and executive positions in all the women's auxiliary organizations. For twelve years she and her companion, as visiting teachers in Relief Society, achieved a onc hundred per cent record. She is the mother of ten children, fourteen grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren, 750 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent throngh stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relicf Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Sylvia R. Stone TONGAN MISSION, VAVA'U DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE AND MISSION CONFERENCE Front row, seated, left to right: F. Jackson; Lusi Vaini; "Ana Vea; Luisa Palu; Lolohea Toki; Manu Lein; Mina Naeata; ''Ofa Naeata; Ana T. Langi. Second row, seated, left to right: Licti Wolfgramm, Seini Fauniteni; Ilina Sanft; Melelini Nau; Emeline "Ulwave; 'Ofa Fa'anunu. Back row, standing, left to right: \fanu Netanc: Siale Lolohea; Lw isa Latu; Petesiola Vailama; 'Ana Wolfgramm; Lavina Wolfgramm; 'Tupou Pita Pauni; Teu Latu; Pclenaise Satuala; 'Ofa Kau; Senitila 'Tongolei. Sylvia R. Stone, President, 'Tongan Mission Relicf Socicty, reports: "These women work very hard to help feed and clothe the 'Tongan labor missionaries, both in Vava'u and Liahona." Dage 751 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 Photograph submitted by Eugenia N. Logan OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) RELIEF SOCIETY FASHION SHOW AND SONG FESTIVAL, April 4, 1958 Eugenia N. Logan, former President, Oahu Stake Relief Society, is seen standing in the center, wearing a white muumuu, and a hat. Some of the articles represented in the fashion show are: remodeled dresses, mother and daughter outfits, and muumuus — modern and old-fashioned. Prizes were given to the winners. A pot luck supper followed the program. Wards represented in the song festival: Hauula, Halawa, Kalihi, Laie First and Second Wards, Lanakila, Moanalua, Nanakuli, Pearl City, Wahiawa. Members of the stake board also participated. Lily D. Kama is the new president of Oahu Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Marjory Hyde Eldredge HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) PRESENTS "SHAKESPEARE IN OUR LIVES" AT CLOSING SOCIAL, April 25, 1958 Left to right: Peggy Tueller; Joseph A. Kjar; Mary Riley; Irma Neilson; Beverly Probert; Donna Alexander; Vilda Campbell; Kathryn Dallimore. Marjory Hyde Eldredge, President, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "Looking in retrospect over our past years' Relief Society programs, we felt most blessed NOTES FROM THE FIELD 753 and grateful for the spirit of love, unity, and co-operation among our sisters throughout the ten wards of our stake. As leaders of Highland Stake Relicf Socicty, we wished to show our appreciation to each one of them, and so prepared a closing social centered on the literature department, since we w ~ culminating a very successful two-vear course on Shakespeare. The delightful pageant 'Shakespeare in Our Lives," by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board, was used as the entertamment of the morning, "We were gratified as the course came to a close to note the increased attendance throughout the year and that the enthusiasm of each teacher had inspired every member with a new interest in Shakespeare and all worthwhile literature. 'The literature teachers in the wards were used either as members of the cast or participated in its production. Margaret Brown, stake literature class leader, directed the pageant. "The program was enhanced by the thrilling singing of 100 Singing Mothers directed by Glenna Peterson, accompanicd by Norma Krantz, stake music directors. Refrcshments were served to 335 sisters. We were delighted to have Sister Leone G. Layton of the General Board of Relief Society as a guest." Photograph submitted by Rachel W. Park MILLCREEK STAKE (UTAH), VALLEY CENTER SECOND WARD PRESIDENTS HONORED AT CLOSING SOCIAL, May 27, 1958 Left to right: Hazel A. Udy, President since July 1956; Mary B. Phillips, 1955-56; Rachel W. Park, President, Millcreek Stake Relicf Society; Flora King, first Phenident of Valley Center Second Ward Relicf Society, 1951-53; Edna Parker, second President, a 3 er Udy reports: "The Valley Center Second Ward Relief Socicty past and present presidents and Millcreek Stake Relicf Society president met together for the first time since the organization of the ward in 1951, at a closing social." Pe RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 Photograph submitted by Lona C. Hepworth RAFT RIVER STAKE (IDAHO), MALTA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March 17, 1958 Left te right: Alice O. Neddo (1922-1944); Helen O. Kelsey (1944-1948); Sarah D. Wight (1948-1953); Lois Z. Elison (1953-1958); Leona Bell (1958-: The Malta Ward Relief Society was organized in 1910, with Martha Hutchinson (deceased) as president. She served twelve years. At the anniversary social, the ward presidents were honored. Lona C. Hepworth is former president of Raft River Stake Relief Society. The new president is Thua E. Harper. Photograph submitted by Electa P. Hilton ALBUQUERQUE STAKE (NEW MEXICO) VISITING TEACHERS GIVEN SPECIAL RECOGNITION AT CONVENTION, May 31, 1958 Electa P. Hilton, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society (seated at the left in the front row), reports: "Special recognition was given to these women. Each one is wearing a blue and gold badge which identifies her as a '100 per cent visiting teacher' who has completed her teaching every month since the stake was organized in October 1957. Their names also appeared on a beautifully constructed honor roll display. "The convention program was presented in the form of a court hearing where the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 755 visiting teacher was 'on trial.' Witnesses for the defense testificd in behalf of the visiting teacher through talks, musical numbers, and clever skits bearing out the importance of visiting teaching. Cleverly worded invitations in the form of a court summons were mailed to all the teachers in the stake. The program, combining humor, spirituality, and beautiful music, was enthusiastically received by all those in attendance. We felt that we had a wonderful convention, and that through the combined efforts of ward and stake workers, we have succeeded in arousing a great deal of enthusiasm for visiting teaching in our stake." f ez Photograph submitted by Grace C. Gamble ONEIDA STAKE (IDAHO), WINDER WARD RELIEF SOCHYTY SOCIAL May 28, 1958 Seated, left to right: Secretary Mable 'Talbot; President Zilla Winger. Standing, left to Tight: First Counsclor Loretta Sharp; Second Counsclor Sara Ballif. Grace C. Gamble, President, Oneida Stake Relicf Socicty, reports: ~ 'Let's Get on the Relief Socicty 'l'rain' was the theme for an unusual social given by this new Relief Society presidency in an effort to gain new members. Dinner was served to all the women and their husbands. 'Tables ran the full length of the recreation hall. 'The centerpiece was a small electric train with tracks on each table. 'The place cards were ycllow stop signs mounted on toothpicks standing in gumdrops. At the head of the table was a large poster showing a stop sign with 'Rclicf Socicty Crossing' on it. 'This was followed by five more posters, cach showing a clever illustration of a tram representing each department in Relief Socicty. "The social was lively as well as inspirational, and full of surprises. It began with the sound effect of a train approaching, which was very effective, as it came through the loud speaker system, and the guests were instructed to board the Relicf Society train and go into the dining car and be seated. President Zilla Winger, who announced the program, wore a conductor's hat, and also the other officers and class leaders who were special conductors on this train." 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-NOVEMBER 1958 LEIS BE WISE AND ECONOMIZE | NEW WAYS: WITH. E "CASTAWAYS RESTYLE AND og ee BHOetrank submitted by Effie K. Driggs NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY FEATURES MODEL WORK MEETING AT ANNUAL LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, April 26th and 27th, 1958, Portland, Oregon Left to right: Lois S. Rawls; Ethel L. Peasnall; Velma Page; June Brown; Loudene Klock; Sylvia Spooner; Ruby Odd; Francis Powell; Melba Burris; Orvilla Rosille; Calysta Stratford, First Counselor; Nedra Pollock; Effie K. Driggs, President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society; Beulah Murry; Grace Bloom; Edna Orave; Anna M. Stone; Betty MacDonald; Doris MacDonald; Evelyn DuRitte; Alta Wilson; Ruth L. Long, work meeting leader; Sonoma Toolson, Second Counselor. "Sister Driggs reports: ""This photograph was taken at the work-day session of the conference. 'The program, planned by Sonoma 'Toolson, work director, was carried out as a model work meeting. 'This session commenced with a twenty-minute discussion and concluded with refreshments, featuring favorite recipes which were simple and beautifully arranged on a table decorated in the blue and gold colors of Relief Society. "The sisters were instructed how to renew and restyle old, but usable, clothing. The entire instruction was based on the theme pictured at the front of the photograph 'Let's Be Wise and Economize—New Ways With Castaways — Restyle and Wear Awhile.' "Shown on the large table are a pattern and arrangement of material from a man's castaway suit which had been ripped apart, washed, and pressed. The pattern was basted on ready for cutting. "Sister Ruth Long of the Mid-Columbia District, and work director of the mission, cut and restyled a beautiful suit, size 10, from a man's suit, size 40. This suit is displayed on the left of the small table in the lower right-hand corner of the picture. Many other stylish articles were fashioned and put on display, as well as gift items for bazaars and work meeting projects. "All districts except Alaska were represented at the two-day conference. "The Sunday morning session was under the direction of the Education Counselor, Calysta Stratford. A preview of next year's lessons and helps in the preparation of the lessons were given. The Sunday afternoon session, under the direction of Effie K. Driggs, President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, featured visiting teaching and The Relief Society Magazine. Sister Driggs presented cach leader with a beautiful folder in which to file helps and hints for the coming year.' [ ¢g Photograph submitted by Annabell W. Hart OAKLAND-BERKELEY STAKE, (CALIFORNIA) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CLOSING SOCIAL, May 16, 1958 Hettie King, who stands at the left in the back row, is eighty-six years old, has served as a visiting teacher for fifty-five vears, and is still active in that capacity. Lena Klein, seated by the piano, is eighty-five years old and has served sixty years as a visiting teacher. Annabell W. Hart, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Socicty, reports: "All thirty-one of the women in the picture have served as visiting teachers for twentyfive years or more." Plymouth Winter Maude Rubin There was no turning back, the ship had sailed.... Thought quailed At silent distance, unknown forest aisles— Dark miles Where danger lurked... Yet here they planted corn. Stillborn And unvoiced, every doubt, each brief regret. But still when Maytime came—hedgerows in bloom At home— Old memory whispered, "Now in England's spring Larks sing!" Though winter's ice had melted, snowing done, They longed for misty hawthorne— But walked forward Into sun! NOTES FROM THE FIELD 757 Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 13—The Church Organized in the Last Dispensation Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 20:1-36; 21) For Tuesday, February 3, 1959 Objective: To emphasize the preparations made for the formal organizing of the Church and to indicate a relationship between the teachings of The Doctrine and Covenants and The Book of Mormon. Historical Background ANY events had transpired in the life of Joseph Smith and some of his co-workers by April 6, 1830. Both the Father and the Son Jesus Christ had appeared to Joseph ten years before this date. The angel Moroni had declared "... The fulfillment of the prophets — the book to be revealed..." (D & C 128:20). To Moroni had been committed the keeping and revealing of the record of the stick of Ephraim (D & C 27:5). Many times this angelic personage had instructed the Prophct in the work assigned him, and finally, in March 1830, The Book of Mormon was available for purchase. The two Priesthoods — Aaronic and Melchizedek — had been restored that man might represent the Lord again. The commandment of the Lord to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery to ordain each other elders in the Church was given in the chamPage 758 ber of Peter Whitmer, Senior, where Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were living. 'These ordinations could not be performed, however, until:. Our brethren, who had been and who should be baptized, assembled together, when we must have their sanction to our thus proceeding to ordain cach other, and have them decide by vote whether they were willing to accept us as spiritual teachers or not... (D. H. C. 1:61). This commandment was given, according to Elder B. H. Roberts, in or before June 1829. Reference to it was made by the Prophet in his letter to the saints in Nauvoo, Ilhinois, under date of September 6, 1842, in this manner: And again, the voice of God in the chamber of old Father Whitmer, in Fayette, Seneca county... (D & C 128:21). The fulfillment of the command to ordain each other occurred on LESSON DEPARTMENT April 6, 1830, when the brethren were present to approve of this action, together with the formal reorganizing of The Church of Jesus Gimist on the eatth (D. H. C. I:60-61, footnote). The Church Organized In introducing Section 20 "A Revelation on Church Government" (D. H. C. 1:64), the Prophet wrote that the Lord had given many instructions relative to duties and tesponsibilities devolving upon him and his fellow-laborers, and that the instructions given therein were obtained "... By the = a of prophecy and samalectiGu. " (D. H. C. 1:64). With six persons (Joseph Smith, Jun., Oliver Cowdery, Hyrum Smith, Peter Whitmer, Jun., Samuel H. Smith, and David Whitmer) present at the Peter Whitmer farm on the day appointed by the following commandment, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came in existence: The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April (D & C 20:1). Following prayer, the brethren present consented to the proposition that the organization be effected, and that Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery be approved as the First and Second Elders, respectively, of "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." With these ordinations taken care of: We then took bread, blessed it, and 759 brake it with them; also wine, blessed it, and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present, that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the Church of Christ. The Holy Ghost was poured out upon us to a very great degree — some prophesied, whilst we all praised the Lord, and rejoiced exceedingly (D. H. C. I:75). Although apparently nine persons had received baptism by April 6th, this ordinance had been performed for the remission of sins, and with the kingdom of God now established by divine commandment, they were again baptized that they would become members of the kingdom of God. (See John 3:5; D. H. C. 1:76, ruin On this memorable day, which will yet be acknowledged in the annals of modern history as an epoch-making event, others were baptized and some were ordained to offices of the Priesthood. How celestial beings must have rejoiced, as the followers of Satan raged, in contemplation of what this event meant in the salvation of the living, and the eventual release of the spirit dead from their state of bondage! This was a day prophesied of centuries before the birth of Jesus. (See Daniel 2:44.) It was one of the great events of the "... Restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began" (Acts 3:21), "... The dispensation of the fulness of times..." wherein God would "... Gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him" (Eph. Lao' )is The Day the Savior Was Born In consideration of the foregoing facts, would it seem at all incon- sistent that when the day was appointed for this event it would be on the anniversary date of the Savior's birth—April 6th? And, also, as President Joseph F. Smith one time suggested, the anniversary date of the Lord's crucifixion? (Quoted in Y. M. M. I. A. Manual 1899-1900, Dispensation of the Fulness of Times, Part I, published 1899, page 45). Joseph Smith and Youthful Weaknesses It is apparent from the Prophet's journal that the reference in verse 5 to his being "... Entangled again in the vanities of the world" (D & C 20:5) refers to certain weaknesses of youth and the foibles of human nature, but he was not guilty of any great malignant sins. Joseph declares that it was never in his nature to commit such sins. But I was guilty of levity, and sometimes associated with jovial company, etc., not consistent with that character which ought to be maintained by one who was called of God as I had been (D. H. C. 1:9). Then Section 20 recounts that by Joseph humbling himself, an angel (Moroni) ministered unto him "... Whose countenance was as lightning, and whose garments were pure and white above all other whiteness" (D & C 20:6). Joseph was given commandments which inspired him and he was given power to translate The Book of Mormon. (See D & C 20:6-8.) The Fulness of the Gospel The Book of Mormon is declared to contain the "fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ," a statement which appears in other places in the revelations. (See D & C 20:9; 27:5; 42:12; 135:3.) What does this expression mean in connection with The Book of Mormon? There seems to be some confusion in the minds of some members of the Church concerning the meaning of this point. Fulness of the gospel does not have reference to a fulness of knowledge, but that there is sufficient knowledge available for salvation. 'The Lord has placed considerable stress in his scriptures regarding the necessity of having saving knowledge (D & C 131:6; 88:77, 78). Included with saving knowledge, there is the necessity for the Priesthood and its keys to be present in order to make effective the principles and ordinances for salvation. Where the keys of the Priesthood and the knowledge are, there is the fulness of the gospel. Some Purposes of The Book of Mormon What does this revelation, Section 20, declare to be a purpose of The Book of Mormon? It is to prove to the world "... That the holy scriptures are true" (D & C 20:11). In this way, the Lord answers the argument of some who have said that because they cannot see anything new in The Book of Mormon there is no reason for there being another book of scripture. In reality, The Book of Mormon has the function of being a witness for the ancient scriptures (Bible) and also in witnessing that Jesus is the Christ. According to this revelation, the Nephite scriptures are also in the world that men may know that to other people the Lord has given his guidance by revelation. (See D & C 20:9-12.) 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT The world shall be judged by the teachings of The Book of Mormon, for this volume of scripture constitutes a witness for the Lord's work in this generation, and because there are witnesses for it (see verse 13). If people will accept it for what it is "... And work righteousness..." the promise is made that they shall receive a crown of eternal life, while those who reject it will stand condemned before the Lord. (See D & C 14-15.) Fundamental Book of Mormon Teachings With these purposes indicated and the testimony of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery given (See D & C 20:16, 35, 36), the Lord makes known some fundamental truths revealed in The Book of Mormon. (See D & C 20:17-34.) As these teachings are set forth below, notice the order in which they are given. The quotation from The Doctrine and Covenants is given first and then a Book of Mormon reference. 1. The existence, eternal nature, and creative power of God. By these things we know that there is a God in heaven, who is infinite and eternal, from everlasting to everlasting the same unchangeable God, the framer of heaven and earth, and all things which are in them (D & C 20:17). In all scripture the existence of God is assumed. There is one place in The Book of Mormon, however, where the existence of God is argued. It is in the discussion between Alma and Korihor the antiChrist. (See Alma 30:37-45.) 2. The creation of man in God's image and likeness. 761 And that he created man, male and female, after his own image and in his own likeness, created he them (D & C 20:18). Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh (Ether 3:16). 3. Man should love, serve, and worship the only living and true God and no other being. And gave unto them commandments that they should love and serve him, the only living and true God, and that he should be the only being whom _ they should worship (D & C 20:19). And now, ye remember that I said unto you: Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of things which are in heaven above, or which are in the earth beneath, or which are in the water under the earth. And again: Thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them, nor serve them... (Mosiah 13:12-13). 4. The fall of man came by transgression of God's commandments. But by the transgression of these holy laws man became sensual and devilish, and became fallen man ( D & C 20:20).... The devil has power over them |the wicked]; yea, even that old serpent that did beguile our first parents, which was the cause of their fall; which was the cause of all mankind becoming carnal, sensual, devilish, knowing evil from good, subjecting themselves to the devil. Thus all mankind were lost; and behold, they would have been endlessly lost were it not that God redeemed his people from their lost and fallen state (Mosiah 16:3-4). 5- Because of the fall, Jesus' sacrifice was made as foretold in scriptures. Otto Done PALMYRA, NEW YORK The Book of Mormon was printed in the Fixchange Building, third building from the left on upper side of the street (the building with the flat roof). (See D. ILC. 1:58.) Wherefore, the Almighty God gave his Only Begotten Son, as it is written in those scriptures which have been given of him (D & C 20:21)... And when the day cometh that the Only Begotten of the Father, yea, even the Father of heaven and of earth, shall manifest himself unto them in the flesh, behold, they will reject him, because of their iniquities, and the hardness of their hearts, and the stiffness of their necks. Behold, they will crucify him; and after he is laid in a sepulchre for the space of three days he shall rise from the dead with healing in his wings; and all those who shall believe on his name shall be saved in the kingdom of God. Wherefore, my soul delighteth to prophesy concerning him, for I have seen his day, and my heart doth magnify his holy name (2 Nephi 25:12-13). 6. Jesus, though tempted, sinned not. IIe suffered temptations but gave no heed unto them (D & C 20:22). Know ye not that he was holy? But notwithstanding he being holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesscth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments (2 Nephi 31:7). Jesus was crucified, resurrected, and ascended into heaven. He was crucified, died, and rose again the third day; And ascended into heaven, to sit down on the night hand of the Father, to reign with almighty power according to the will of the Father... (D & C 20:23-24). And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying: Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world (3 Nephi 12:13-14). 8. Salvation in the kingdom of God is dependent upon acceptance of the gospel and endurance in faith to the end. That as many as would believe and be baptized in his holy name, and endure in faith to the end, should be saved— And we know that all men must repent and believe on the name of Jesus Christ, and worship the Father in his name, and endure in faith on his name to the end, or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God (D & C 20:25, 29). And he commandeth all men that they must repent, and be baptized in his name, having perfect faith in the Holy One of Israel. Or they cannot be saved in the kingdom of God. And if they will not repent and believe in his name, and be baptized in his name, and endure to the end, they must be damned; for the Lord God, the Holy One of Isracl, has spoken it (2 Nephi 9:23-24). G. Salvation is for faithful believers who lived before as well as after the carthly ministry of Jesus. Not only those who believed after he came in the meridian of time, in the flesh, but all those from the beginning, even as many as were before he came, who believed in the words of the holy prophets, who spake as they were inspired by the gift of the Holy Ghost, who truly testified of him in all things, should have eternal life, As well as those who should come after, who should believe in the gifts and callings of God by the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of the Father and of the Son... (D & C 20:26-27). For he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the way is prepared for all men from the foundation of the world, 763 if it so be that they repent and come unto him. For he that diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto them, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old, and as well in times of old as in times to come; wherefore, the course of the Lord is one eternal round (I Nephi 10:18-19). 10. The Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God! ' "They are one in essence, in purpose, in spirit, 1 attributes, in power, and glory, rm they are, nevertheless, three personages' (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 103). Which Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are one God, infinite and cternal, without end. Amen (D & C 20:28). And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for behold, verily I say unto you that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; and I aim in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one (3 Nephi 11:27). 11. Justification and sanctification through the grace of Jesus Christ are just and true. And we know that justification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true; And we know also, that sanctification through the grace of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is just and true, to all those who love and serve God with all their mights, minds, and strength (D & C 20: 30-31). Nevertheless they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger and stronger in their humility, and firmer and firmer in the faith of Christ, unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation, yea, even to the purifying and the sanctification of their hearts, which sanctification comcth because of their yielding their hearts unto God (IIclaman 3:35). 764 12. Despite grace, man may fall from God. But there is a possibility that man may fall from grace and depart from the living God; Therefore let the church take heed and pray always, lest they fall into temptation; Yea, and even let those who are sanctified take heed also (D & C 20:32-34). Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away captive by him (3 Nephi 18:15). Following these great truths concerning the plan of salvation, there is further testimony given relative to these fundamental Book of Mormon teachings. (See D & C 20:35-36.) (Note: the remaining part of Section 20 will be discussed in the next lesson.) Section 21 At the time the Church was organized, the Lord gave this revelation (Section 21). It sets forth the important fact that a record or history is to be maintained, and also defines the duties and responsibilities of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Briefly stated, the titles given to him at this time are important in that they show functions which may be exercised by the one who is the Lord's prophet on the earth. (See D & C 21:1.) The seer is one who "sees" or has visions. He is declared to be a revelator and a prophet. (See Mosiah 8:13-18.) 'The prophet speaks for the Lord by divine appointment; consequently the Lord declares that Joseph Smith's word "... Ye shall receive, as if from mine own mouth, in all patience and faith" (D & C 21:5). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 If we do this by waiting on the Lord in exercising faith, we shall be blessed that the "gates of hell" shall not prevail against us. (See D & C 21:5-6, 9.) By divine inspiration one who speaks for the Lord may also translate. In continuing the revelation, Joseph Smith is declared to be the First Elder of the Church and Oliver Cowdery the Second. (See D & C 21:10-11.) Interesting items are found in verse 12 wherein Oliver Cowdery is designated as the " first preacher of the church... (D & C 21:12). He gave the first public discourse in this dispensation. He also became a missionary to the Lamanites or the "Jews" as the Indians were sometimes named in the revelations. (See D & C 32; 28:8.)?? Questions for Discussion 1. What is the historical background of Section 20? 2. Relate the events which occurred when the Church was organized on April 6, 1830. Why do you think it is important that the kingdom of God would be restored on the anniversary of Jesus' birth? 4. In what way does The Book of Mormon contain the fulness of the gospel? 5. According to Section 20, give two purposes for The Book of Mormon being in the world. 6. What reasons are given by Alma to show that there is a Supreme Ruler in the universe? 7. Name as many fundamental Book of Mormon teachings as you can from Section 20. Why is each one of them important? 8. What has the Lord revealed concerning the salvation of those who lived before the meridian of time? What attribute of God does your answer suggest? G. Briefly indicate the contents of Section 21. Which one or more of these items apply most directly to your life? INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH RESWHOD rosR SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 94107 Usitin cleacher Tlessa 7es — g g Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 13—"... Seek Not to Counsel Your God" (D. & C. 22:4). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, February 3» 1959 Objective: To emphasize the importance of secking the Lord's counsel in faith and meekness. HE idea that any of us might ever seek to advise or counsel our Father in heaven would seem, on first thought, to be incredible. Only the most rebellious among us, it would appear, would ever resort to such action. However, the truth is that, on occasion, all of us, often unknowingly, have sought to counsel the Lord. We are guilty of this attempted action, if, for example, in our prayers, we seek to instruct our Father in heaven in the way we expect him to fulfill our requests, rather than to petition him humbly for guidance and help. We also fall into the error of seeking to counsel the Lord if, at any time, we attempt to interpret the Lord's teachings so that they fit our own particular interests and desires. Sometimes when we fail to understand a principle of the gospel, or are not fully in accord with it, we seek to counsel God by minimizing the importance of the principle. We might even attempt to alter the meaning of the Lord's word in our minds to suit our own convenience and purpose. The essence of full compliance with the Lord's counsel is to be obedient to all his laws and commandments as he has given them and as they have been interpreted by his prophets. We should not seek to find ways to circumvent his teachings and interpret them according to our own desires. Elder Marion G. Romney emphasized this point in an address at a general Church conference when he. Said: We ought to obey the Lord's commandments as they are given. We ought not to twist and turn and bend them to our will. Sometimes, when we are faced with life's pressing problems, unconsciously we counsel the Lord by asking him to solve our problems in a certain way. A few years ago a fine Latter-day Saint woman was facing a crisis in her life. In her limited knowledge she could see only one solution to her problem. She prayed earnestly to the Lord for that particular solution. One night when she couldn't sleep she opened The Book of Mormon to Jacob 4:10:.. Seek not to counsel the Lord, but to take counsel from his hand. For... He counseleth in wisdom, and in justice, and in great mercy, over all his works. She slipped out of bed and humbly asked forgiveness of the Lord for the way she had prayed previously. She then proceeded to Page 765: 766 pray for guidance in the solution of her problem, yielding herself completely to God's will. For the first time in months a peace came into her soul. Her problem was never solved in the way she originally wanted, but she knew the Lord's solution was the right one. A year or two later she could see clearly the wisdom of the Lord's answer to her problem. We all need to search our souls and make sure we do not fall into the error of seeking to counsel the Lord. When we pray to our Heavenly Father we should approach him in humility and in obedience with complete faith and trust in his allseeing wisdom. We should seek the Lord's counsel in all things with the full assurance that he knows what is best for us. We should have uppermost in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 our hearts the thought, "Teach me thy way, O Lord (Psalms 27:11), rather than "let me have" my way. We must remember that the Lord is our ever-loving Father in heaven who is interested in our well-being. He knows the full purpose of our lives and can see the beginning and the end. If we are faithful and prayerful and submit ourselves to his will, the Lord will direct our paths for good. Jesus, the supreme model, gave us the true approach. Although he possessed all knowledge and wisdom, still he prayed constantly to his Father in heaven, acknowledging his Father's superiority in all things. Christ's very life exemplified his meaningful words when he said to his Father, "... Not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42). Work ]Tleeting— Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 5—Operating the Household Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, February 10, 1959 Objective: To recognize that money management is a problem in all homes, but when considered by the family under parental direction, it can be worked out to advantage. ANAGEMENT of the family income is recognized by all home-management experts as the most difficult task in the management area. The battle is half won if a good attitude toward money is shared by all members of the family. A happy working partnership of husband and wife and a feeling of unity among the children will help in money management, as well as in every other place. Such a plan should provide for major family expenses and for individual responsibility in spending. It should take care of personal allowances, education, and cultural and spiritual growth opportunities for members. It should provide for the daily needs—food, clothing, shelter, LESSON DEPARTMENT recreation, and health. It should also provide for tithing, Church contributions, and savings. A financial plan is an individual family problem, because no two families are exactly alike in make-up, desires (goals), likes, or dislikes. The Importance of Keeping Records Many recent studies in sociology show that better family relationships exist when the family, under parental guidance, talk over their finances and plan together. Experences suitable to the child's age level can help him gain an understanding of the worth of money and familhiarize him with family policies in relation to its use. For this reason the allowance is a commonly accepted method of teaching children how to handle moncy. An account keeping system makes it possible for us to evaluate our spending; to recognize our strengths and our weaknesses in handling money. A good account keeping system is simple, adequate, flexible, and convenient. Many families prefer to make their own account book. If it is to be of value it should be kept daily. Checking the planned monthly expenditures can be a valuable experience in family co-opcration, when the family sits down at the close of cach month to balance the books. When the family finances become a family concern, no one member will demand more for selfish reasons than the family budget can stand. Making a Budget The financial plan (budget) for a family is just as important as a road map is to the traveler. When you sit down together and estimate 767 the money you will be spending for the next several months, you get a better understanding of the family financial problems. 'The family account records for past years are the best possible guide in making a financial estimate for a new vear. An account system can tell us exactly how much our vacation cost last vear, how much our food costs were for October, etc. All thriving businesses operate on a planned budget, and it is just as helpful in family finances. 'The fnancial plan we make may not work out exactly as planned, but that is no reason for being discouraged. Any plan is better than no plan at all. Allocation of Funds It is difficult to savy exactly how much of one's income should be spent in the various areas. Families are different in so many ways that we can only talk about the mythical "average" family when suggesting amounts to be spent in operating a household. 'The following percentages have been suggested: 5 per cent for food 5 per cent for clothing o to 25 per cent for shelter, depending whether heat and some other utilities are included 10 to 15 per cent for houschold operation 5 per cent for savings 15 to 20 per cent for everything clse (tithing and Church contributions might be included in this item or deducted in part from other allocations listed). 12 = ld We all know expenditures vary from time to time, from place to place, and from family to family, and they vary at a different rate than income. One set of percentages 768 just won't do for all people. You have to develop a plan that fits you and your family. Suggestions for Activities or Discussions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 1. How many have made family financial plans (budgets)? Discuss. 2. How about allowances for children? What factors have been found to be important in order to have the allowance serve its best purpose? Aieanentere — Natnenie Literature— Meet the New World Lesson 5—Two Puritan Poets: Wigglesworth and Taylor Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 50-53; 57-60) For Tuesday, February 17, Objective: N any age are to be found undercurrents of ages past and foreshadowings of trends to come. Americans are in no position to choose Puritanism as their own tradition; yet for more than two hundred years it has been one of the great influences, both in establishing the fabric and tone of individual minds and in shaping profoundly all public institutions: business, education, and church in the United States. The question which can never be fully and finally answered is, "Has the Puritan tradition been an influence for good or ill?" Abundant evidence exists to justify supporting either side of the issue. Those who rely on study, wisdom, and the perspective of time have come to see in Puritanism both good and ill, then as now. But in attempting to see the Puritan truly, perhaps the most difficult caution is to avoid easy generalizations on either side. 'The moderate position 1959 To contrast two different modes of Puritan poetry. Taken by Ralph Barton Perry in his comprehensive and penetrating study, Puritanism and Democracy, at least demands our consideration when he states that English and American institutions were favorably stamped with desirable characteristics, such as self-reliance and sobriety by the Puritans, and that they have formed a pool of spiritual vigor upon which we continue to draw. The "Human" Puritans In 1781, Samuel Peters published his General History of Connecticut. An Anglican minister who hated all forms of non-conformity, he detailed the infamous "Blue Laws" which ostensibly were used by the Puritans to dominate early Puritan Connecticut: none could travel or cook on the Sabbath, nor could parents kiss their children on the Lord's Day. They were also forbidden to "make mince pies, dance, play cards, or LESSON DEPARTMENT play on any instrument except the drum, trumpet, or jews-harp." Largely fictional, these "Blue Laws" have been coupled with paintings of somber-clothed, long-faced Puritans sitting in drab churches to form the over-simplified, popular generalization of Puritan. Such an extreme view is not without some basis in fact, but is a small basis, playing a minor part in the Puritan mind. While Cotton Mather did preach against gambling, taverns, dancing, and Sabbath-breaking, and while laws existed against dice, card playing, ninepins, bowling, and shuffleboard, they were little respected, for all these forms of amusement flourished, as well as soccer, target contests, and others. Children played games and had toys and dolls as they do today. Boston had a fencing school in 1673 and, for a time, a dancing school. Puritans loved fine clothes. William Brewster owned blue and violet coats and a green waistcoat; women wore silks and laces. And while novel-reading was frowned upon as a "meere waste of time" and plays were still considered so evil that New England had no early theaters and Shakespeare was practically non-existent in large private libraries, poetry was loved and esteemed by cultivated Puritans. Classical and Renaissance poets were well represented in almost every library list which has survived. Along with logic, rhetoric, geometry, astronomy, ethics and natural science were taught subjects prompted by Renaissance interests: Greek, Hebrew, ancient history, and Latin. Amorous Elizabethan verse was well known to most Harvard students. 769 Love of Learning Fearing ignorance and the unrestrained enthusiasms of the Quakers and others, desiring to advance learning for its own sake as advocated by Francis Bacon and other Renaissance scholars, the Puritans believed in education — one of their greatest contributions to our heritage. Furthermore, that every man might read his own Bible for himself, the famous law of 1647 was passed, requiring each community larger than fifty families to provide free elementary schools. Most of all, they felt the constant need of a learned clergy to guide them in every avenue which might lead to God. President Increase Mather admonished his students at Harvard: You who are wont to philosophize in a liberal spirit are pledged to the words of no particular master, yet I would have you hold fast to that one truly golden saying of Aristotle: find a friend in Plato. Yes, find a fnend in Socrates and in Aristotle, but above all find a frend in Truth. And if the truth was to be theirs, believed the Puritans, it was well worth earning. One of the most central teachings of Puritanism was succinctly put by the Reverend John Ehot, "We must not sit still and look for miracles. Up and be doing, and the Lord will be with thee." Indeed, much was to be learned if the truth were to be found. Poetry Was Useful Poetry which appealed too strongly to the senses or which yielded too much delight was suspect. In his Manaductio ad Ministerium, written in 1726 as a guide to young ministers, Cotton Mather advised, "Be not so set upon poetry as to be always poring on its passionate and measured pages. Let not what would be sauce rather than food for you engross all your applications." But, on the other hand, rhetoric and poetry were given to mankind that they might more easily understand God's word. Poetry's "measure and sweet sounds" were to be used as adornment for great truths; some felt that before the fall Adam must have spoken pure poetry. Those men who "from their natures" despised poetry, possessed distempered natures, for through poetry the greatest truths could be taught most effectively. As their great teacher, William Ames pointed out, "That key is to be chosen which doth open best, although it be of wood, if there be not a golden key of the same efficacy." Michael Wigglesworth (1631-1705) Harvard graduate, minister and physician at Malden, Massachusetts, from 1656 until his death, so frail in body that he preached but seldom and turned down the presidency of Harvard, Michael Wigglesworth was the "Poet Laureate" of Puritanism. More than any other man, save possibly Jonathan Edwards, he has been cited as the most horrible example of "hellfire and damnation" Calvinistic Puritanism. Yet his accomplishment was merely to set, in easily memorized dogtrot doggerel, the beliefs of his age regarding man's wickedness, the fiery awe surrounding the day of judgment, and the smug satisfaction of the righteous as they witnessed with felicity the destruction of their evil "brothers." He believed that "a verse may find him when a sermon flies." So popular was his The Day of Doom when it appeared in 1662, that, within the year one person in thirtyfive throughout New England had bought a copy, making it percentage-wise the most popular book ever printed in Puritan America. It was printed in broadsides and hawked at country fairs, much like the igth century penny dreadfuls (a piece of cheap popular literature) which it so much resembled. At least eight editions were called for, three of them since 1900, the last in 1929. Children were asked to memorize it along with their Bible and Catechism. During the late 19th century, many older people were still alive who could recite the entire 224 stanzas by heart. His similar work, most aptly titled, God's Controversy With New England, was written in a time of severe drought to prove that God punishes his chosen people when they sin. The Day of Doom begins with a description of sinners' complacency as they wallow in sin, yet grow bold in their indifference to God's threatenings. Sleeping securely, they are caught unawares by God's vengeance: For at midnight brake forth a Light, which turn'd the night to day, And speedily an hideous cry did all the world dismay. Sinners awake, their heart to ake, trembling their loynes surprizeth; Amaz'd with fear, by what they hear, each one of them ariseth. With "giddy heads" they rush forth to find the night as day, the heavens rent asunder. His scene set, Wigglesworth feels it is not too soon to rebuke: 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT Ye sons of men that durst contemn the threat'nings of God's word, How cheer you noe? Your hearts [ trow, are thrilled as with a sword. Now atheist blind, whose brutish a God could never see Dost thou perceive, dost thou believe that Christ thy judge shall be? Mind No heart so bold but now grows cold and almost dead with fear, No eve so dry but now can cry and pour out many a tear... Mean men lament, great men do rent their robes and tear their hair; They do not spare their flesh to tear through horrible despair. All kindreds wail; their hearts do fail; horror the world doth fill With weeping eyes and loud outcries, yet knows not how to kill. As the mountains smoke, a trump is sounded and the Judge draws nigh. Placing his pure lambs on one side of his throne, he then condemns the various sinners to whatever depth of hell they deserve. After reproving them for their "licentious mirth" and "Carnal Pleasure" while ignoring him, he prepares the condemand for their eternal punishment: With iron bands they bind their hands, and cursed feet together And cast them all, both great and small, into that lake forever. Where day and night, without respite, they wail, and cry, and howl For tort'ring pain, which they sustain in Body and in Soul. When babes who died in infancy approach the bar for their sentence, Christ, the Judge, acknowledges their sinfulness to be much less than that of mature men, yet he temporizes: A crime it is; therefore, in bliss You may not hope to dwell; But unto you I shall allow 771 The easiest room in hell. The glorious King thus answering, they cease, and plead no longer; Their consciences must needs confess his reasons are the stronger. In contrast, God's perfect saints find wondrous happiness as "Its light Divine" is reflected from every face, for soon his worthy children are to be embraced within his arms of love. Edward Taylor (1645-1729) Though he lived to be eightyfour, Edward 'Taylor was driven from within to write poetry constantly throughout most of his maturity, yet he published none of it. Indeed, so sensuous is his poetry, so intimately does he create within its lines a closeness to God, even a mystical union with him, that his faithful parishoners who had _ for decades listened to his usual, dry sermons on some theological disputation would have been astounded had they read his poctry. Furthcrmore, so evident was his delight in the process of imaginative creativity itself, that some of his contempporaries, with lesser gifts of insight and communication, surely would have accused him of enjoying poetry for its own sake rather than as a means of worship. Had they so accused, nothing would have been further from the truth. In the words of 'Thomas Johnson, his discoverer, "his sole inspiration was a glowing passionate love for Chnist." While his poctry has become a classic of Puritan literature, and while far and away he wrote the greatest poetry in America before 1800, his largest bequest to us might well lie above the poems themselves, deep and exciting as they are. Sus- tained and surrounded by a culture which esteemed reason, the intellect, logic, and a literal reading, just as they abhorred emotion, enthusiasm, imagination, and the delights of artistic creativity and beauty for their own sakes, his secret effort stands as living proof that the whole man will not be denied. 'That such unnatural, authoritarian decrees violate the integrity of man is proved once again by Edward Taylor. As intellectual, artistic, spiritual patterns change, often the many will bow down and capitulate, often for decades or centuries. But sooner or later there is always one to speak. Taylor is that one, toward whom we must exert gratitude, "the memory of the heart." Scarcely more than twenty years ago Edward Taylor did not exist; no anthology of American literature before World War If included him. At his death, his poems having served their purpose fully, he left instructions with a grandson, Ezra Stiles, President of Yale during the Revolution, that they be destroyed. Instead, they were deposited unopened in the Yale Library, first to be discovered by Thomas Johnson in 1937. This momentous event forced a complete revision of opinion about Puritan poetry. Edward Taylor is a Puritan poet for four reasons, among others. 1. His sources and influences are within the Puritan tradition. Most of his images and conceits are expanded images drawn from ordinary folk-life: cooking, spinning, building, nature. His "Meditations," which make up the bulk of his poetry, were composed five times yearly as his own private communings on texts from the Bible which he was to discuss in a sermon the day following. He was a poet of The Book. 2. Intellectual intensity. Central in Puritanism was the Renaissance spirit which loved learning, logic, intellectual excellence. So intent was Edward 'Taylor on making his poems as concentrated as possible, that he omits prepositions and. Articles, which omissions accentuate the intentional roughness he seemed to feel best maintained the homely folk quality of his lines. Even in his most grave poems he used wit play and puns. Predominantly he is a metaphysical poet, or one who by force expands an image or conceit to its farthest (sometimes incongruous) extremes, that this new association between simple image and intense, lofty idea or spirituality might excite the reader through surprise. 3. Supports Calvin's view of man. In certain of his poems made public for the first time in 1957 (and therefore not in our text), Taylor reveals what hitherto was not generally known; namely, how fully he saw exemplified in himself the Calvinistic concept of man. For example, consider the vivid figure or conceit he uses in these two stanzas from "Meditation 31," Series 1, to express his own self-revulsion: Oh! Sad-Sad thing! Satan is now turned Cook: Sin is the sauce he gets for ev'ry Dish. I cannot bite a bit of Bread or Roote But what is sopt therein, and Venomish. Right's lost in what's my Right. Hence I do take Only what's poison'd by the infernal Snake. But this is not the Worst: there's worse than this. My Tast is lost; no bit tastes sweet to mee But what is Dipt all over in this Dish 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT Of Ranck ranck Poyson: this my Sauce must bee Hell Heaven is, Heaven Hell: yea, Bitter Sweet: Poison's my Food: Food poison in't doth keep. 4. Mystic Union with God. Puritanism's great power was its other worldliness: its sense of the immediacy of God now and, most of all, in the glorious bliss of the life to come. His feeling of identity with God here and now is the great common denominator of the Puritan movement from Bradford through Jonathan Edwards, as seen in these stanzas from "Meditation 23," Series I: I know not how to speak't, it is so good: Shall Mortall and Imortall marry? Nay, Man marry God? God be a Match for Mud? The King of Glory Wed a Worm? Mere Clay? This is the Case, the Wonder too is Bliss Thy Maker is thy Husband. Hear'st thou this? My Maker be my Husband? Oh, strange joy!... I am to Christ more base than to a King, A Mite, Fly, Worm, Ant, Serpent, Divell is Or can be, being tumbled all in Sin; And Shall I be his Spouse? How good is this? It is too good to be declar'd to thee: But not too good to be believed by mee. In the preceding excerpts we see how widely Taylor fluctuates from day to day, from mood to mood. Because the purpose of his poems was to translate his present feeling toward himself and his God into a poem to be seen by his eyes alone, he could be only entirely honest and unpresumptuous. Though he is up and then down, his dowinant tone is one of ecstatic joy and inner peace at being near his God: 773 In Heaven soaring up, I dropt an Eare On Earth: and oh! Sweet Melody: And listening found it was the Saints who were Encoacht for heaven that sang for Joy. For in Christs Coach they sweetly sing, As they to Glory ride therein. Oh! Joyous hearts! Enfir'de with holy Flame! Is Speech thus tassled with praise? Will not your inward fire of Joy contain; That it in open flames doth blaze? Meditation Eight begins with an exalted image, studded with opulent detail yet ending at one's kitchen door, in which he envisions God's sending down from the heavens the sacramental bread of life. After comparing himself to a starving, wastrel Bird of Paradise, unable to obtain even from the angels any soul-bread, he concludes with one of his most apt conceits: a skillful, effective enlargement of the sacramental bread until it becomes truly the staff of his own spiritual life. Note again how he uses the most common everyday objects to convey his own inward delight and joy. (Bowells is used here as the source of pity or compassion. ) Alas! Poore Bird, the Worlds Whiteloafe is done. And cannot yield thee here the smallest Crumb. In this sad state, Gods Tender Bowells run Out Streams of Grace: And he to end all strife The Purest Wheate in Heaven, his dearedear Son Grinds, and kneads up into this bread of Life. Which Bread of Life from Heaven down came and stands Disht on thy Table up by Angells Hands Did God mould up this Bread in Heaven, and bake, Which from this Table came, and to thine goeth? 774 Doth he speake thee thus, This soule Bread_ take; Come, Eate thy fill of this, thy Gods White Loafe? Its Food too fine for Angells, yet come, take And Eate thy fill. Cake. Its Heavens Sugar What Grace is this knead in this Loafe? This thing Souls are but petty things it to admire. Yee Angells, help: This fill would to the bnim Heav'ns whelm'd-down Chrystall meele Bowle, vea and higher. This Bread of Life dropt in thy mouth doth Cry: Eate, Eate me, Soul, and thou shalt never dy. Intense, yes; and reverent, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 poetry indeed, completely devoted to a more poignant expressing souljoy than any other. For then we'll possess more fully an insight into the art and belief of America's most provocative Puritan poet. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How could the Puritans suspect the — imagination while at the same time they we ed" poetry?. Why did Puritans believe in education? 3. Can you account for Wigglesworth's tremendous popularity? 4. Contrast Puritan beliefs as set forth in the quotations from The Day of Doom with revealed knowledge. 5. For you what is the greatest source of 'T'aylor's appeal? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 18—The Restraining Hand Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, February 24, 1959 Objective: "HOw should I discipline my child?" "Will spanking help?" and "When do I apply restraint?" Parents are asking questions of this kind in order to improve their parenthood. 'This lesson seeks to help parents search for the answers to these and other allied questions. Most people think of discipline and punishment as synonymous and that punishment may be either soft or hard. 'The "spare the rod and spoil the child" school of thought believes in rather strong, repressive methods, while the "freedom of action" group believes any restraint To learn the role of discipline as an influence in our lives. Is damaging to the child. Fortunately, neither position is wholly wrong nor wholly right. Excessive restraint does not always repress. More often than not, when it is repressive, it produces behavioral problems of a more serious nature than those originally sought to be curbed. The absence of restraint is equally undesirable. Its "freedom" produces persons who are non-conformists to community and personal standards, persons who do not act as intelligent adults. If we have a proper concept of discipline, we think of it as a process or training which "corrects, LESSON DEPARTMENT "? Molds, strengthens, or perfects. Basically, it is the process by which we persuade others to accept our ideas of behavior as their own. Growth and Control Two important factors run through the entire disciplinary process, growth and limitations. 1. Each person grows in the sense that he develops increasingly greater activities and relationships with others. This growth entails physical, mental, and emotional changes as well as changes in conduct patterns. Maturity, which is the acquisition of desirable conduct patterns, is an everie goal. Every person needs controls to keep within permissible behavior. Discipline is the process by which we transmit controls from one to another. But discipline has other and deeper meanings. We want children to learn to think and act independently. Yet in this civilized world, no one can always do exactly as he pleases without regard for others. A child needs to learn what he can do safcly and what he can't, how to respect other people and gain their respect, and how to use his endless energies in constructive and satisfying ways (The Why and How of Discipline, Child Study Association of America, Inc., page 8). (Reprinted by permission ) Self-Control Is Acquired We are not born with self-control. It must be acquired. Selfreliant and _ self-disciplined persons have thrown off their foolish and imprudent behavior because they have adopted as their own, controls which they have observed in others. Self-control must be acquired on the terms of "I do this because that's what I think is right." It might well be that the adolescent will come very close to parental standards and values in the end but he needs the feeling that he arrived there on his own.... If this self directive capacity is not developed during adolescence, the individual is likely to... Carry within himself a permanent feeling 775 of inadequacy (Peter Blos: Child Study, Winter 1946-47. The Essence of Adolescent Change, page 54). (Reprinted by permission ) While the repressive influence of community and church attitudes is a persuasive one, probably the greatest influence in developing controls is the influence of parents upon the child. 'The transfer of controls from parent to child is a normal, peaceful process which parents can facilitate through an understanding of certain factors and the wise use of "teaching tools" at their disposal. The development of self-control in a child engages the hearts and hands of parents. Parental influence towards this goal should not be restricted to the spanking hand. (More about this later.) Parental hands may also mold, lift, and applaud. Wise parents, through a close relationship born of love and hope, will lead the child to accept parental standards, not by compulsion, but by desire. 'This influence might be compared to a light. Lead kindly light, Amid th' encircling gloom; Lead thou me on! Effective Discipline In disciplining children, parental influence will be more effective if parents are aware of the following factors: 1. Parents should seek to understand their children. Much of a child's behavior is characteristic of the stage of the child's growth and development. Angels don't say No or get dirty or talk back or use naughty words. Children do. If you know this, you won't lose your faith in children or feel that they have let you down (James L. Hymes, Jr.: Understanding Your Child, Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York, page 97). (Reprinted by permission ) Parents should acquire a general ideal of what may be expected from children in their different stages of development. For instance, what appears to be defiance in the fouryear-old may only be a "testing" of his discov ery that he is a separate individual. 'Testing is tempering. At this stage he learns in a preliminary way that he has some or no independence. 'The alternating grown-up and childish behavior of the adolescent is characteristic of this age. Children of similar ages do not always respond identically. While most children follow a similar pattern, parents should be fully aware of possible variations. Parents should be tolerant of behavior stemming from the stage of growth and development, for the aggravations of each phase will shortly fade away. 2. Behavior often expresses a need. (See Lesson 12, "Families Have Members," Relief Society Magazine, December 1957.) Parents should ask, ""What is my child trying to say by his behavior?" 'The little fellow who throws a toy at the parent buried in his newspaper may only be saying, "Hey, Pop, give me some of your attention." 'This father may conclude his child is incorrigible or he may be flattered and complimented that his child is interested in spending time with him. Whichever he concludes, his reaction will be much different than if he had come to the opposite conclusion. The need for growth and the need for social independence may produce distortions in a child's behavior. In such cases, those parents are wise who channel the child's activities to meet these needs rather than thwart the expressed hunger. Wise parents will continually ask "Why?" 3. Parents should seek to understand their child's fears and frustrations and reflect such understanding in their discipline. The timid child, for instance, may have strong, angry feelings which he is unable to express. Parental discipline can contribute to, or lessen these feelings. The apparent timidity may come from overprotection or sternness. Such a child not only needs parental support in helping him assert himself, but, having been given parental support, he needs opportunities for independent expression. 4. The parental feeling towards the child is of utmost importance. Parents who have an attitude of warmth and love instinctively help their child become selfreliant through the creation of an environ- - ment which encourages this very thing. There is great comfort in knowing that those who love you love enough to take the responsibility of marking out the permissible ('Thornton Wilder: The Ides of March, Harper, 1948, page 194). (Re printed by permission) You will observe that the most potent influence over the mind of a child to persuade it to learn, to progress, or to accomplish anything, is the influence of love. More can be accomplished for good by unfeigned love, in bringing up a child, than by any other influence that can be brought to bear upon it. A child that cannot be conquered by the lash, or subdued by violence, may be controlled in an instant by unfeigned affection and sympathy. I know that is true; and this principle obtains in every condition of life (Joseph F. Smith: Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, page 294) Patience—Direction—Firmness With an awareness of the above, how do parents deal with the problems which are constantly arising within the home? 'The authorities in this field suggest that parents need patience, the ability to substitute or redirect activities, and the determination to stop some behavior. Behavior which is normal for a given stage of development must be received with considerable tolerance, even though it may be extremely irritating. 'This does not mean we should dismiss our responsibilities with the conclusion that the child is in a "phase" which he will outgrow. Quite to the contrary, we 776 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT should recognize that much of this type of behavior is "testing" to find the limits of acceptable behavior. If parents use this experience to set consistent limits, the "'phase" will pass, leaving the child with newly acquired controls available to himself as he meets new but similar situations. Behavior which stems from a basic need can best be met by "channeling." The child who is bad because he needs recognition or security, for instance, is best disciplined by having experiences from which he will receive the security he wishes. Punishment, in such a situation, merely adds fuel to the fire. Creative parents will provide experiences for children to meet their basic needs before they express such a desire through undesirable behavior. These parents will also make opportunities in which children can make decisions and have experience in "play living" from which they learn permissible behavior. Some situations require parents to be firm in order to stop a child's behavior. When a child is in danger, either from his own impulse or some independent source, we should not hesitate to use whatever necessary means we have to protect him. Discipline Is Constant There are many and varied kinds of discipline. 'There are disciplinary features in almost every act of parents. 'The appreciation which they show, the efforts in helping children meet basic needs, and the pleasurable experiences which _parents provide for their children, all involve discipline, for each suggests a course of behavior. Families should 777 seek to be united in their discipline, or confusion clouds the message which parents seek to teach their children. Miss Margaret Mead, in an illuminating address before the MidCentury White House Conference on Children and Youth spoke of disciplinary methods. She said: There are people... Who mainly bring up their children by scolding them when they are bad and taking goodness for granted. As a country, she pointed out, we have passed from the use of punishment to a period of reward for doing good. The eating of spinach is rewarded with ice cream, for instance. Commenting further, Miss Mead said we are now moving towards rewarding "children for not doing the things they shouldn't have done." Now when we have living together grandparents who were brought up on the "wash your mouth out with soap" position, parents who were brought up on the "gold star when you clean your teeth" position, and children who expect to be complimented for "not hitting their baby brothers on the head" position, simultaneously, you will see we have a complicated and difficult problem. One of the important things for us to do is recognize how difficult it is (Margaret Mead, Associate Curator of Ethnology, American Museum of Natural History, New York City, Speaking to the MuidCentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950, "The Impact of Culture on Personality Development in the United States Today"). (Reprinted by permission ) Punishment Punishment is a part of discipline whether it consists of nagging, threats, deprivation, or spanking. In contemplating the use of punish- 778 Music Suggested for Use by Relief Societies in Connection With Course on America's Literature a BEAUTIFUL SAVIOUR.....................16. NOW THANK WE ALL OUR GOD.20 oo O BREAD OF LIFE....................-.....10 — O SACRED HEAD NOW WOUNDED 15. PRAISE TO THE LORD....... Ww 16 ae 1} LOVE THY KINGDOM.................16 = ALL MY HEART THIS NIGHT REJOICES.20 Ah A MY GOD, HOW WONDERFUL.......16 o.. WE THANK THEE, JESUS, DEAREST FRIEND...... -16 | LAMB OF GOD, PURE AND HOLY.18 ss GOD THE FATHER, BE OUR STAY.18 ae ONCE HE CAME IN BLESSING.....25 — AND WITH SONGS, I WILL CELEBRATE..............22.00. Ceseeeeeeeeeeee 25 Bots. JOSEPH, DEAREST JOSEPH MINE.22 a THE LORD, MY GOD, BE PRAISED.22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (J On Approval {0 Charge Cl Money Enclosed Name 4 Address.......... - City & State j VA | Daynes Music AMURAELLAIOLINAL 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 ment, the following suggestions and observations are made: 1. It must be brief. 2. It must be soon after the behavior for which punishment is given. 3. The child must understand why he is being punished. The punishment must be geared to the child. 5. It must be fair. 6. Parents must be willing to accept the. Tears and fuss of the child who is punished. 7. It must not be physically harmful. 8. It must be consistent. On one occasion I had done something that was not just right, and my mother said to me: "Now, Joseph, if you do that again I shall have to whip you." Well, time went on, and by and by, I forgot it, and I did something similar again; and this is the one thing that I admired more, perhaps, than any secondary thing in her; it was that when she made a promise she kept it. She never made a promise, that I know of, that she did not keep (Joseph F, Smith: Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, page 317). Punishment has certain Jimitations. It often conjures up angry feelings within a child which lessen his power to assimilate what we are trying to teach him. It loses its effectiveness if used constantly. Often it points up the conflict in parental talk and action. Punishment can intensify anger and hurt feelings to the point where a child's personality is damaged. Specific Situations Most parents have conflict with children over going to bed. The decision of the parents as to when children should go to bed is constantly tested by the little cherubs. They want a story, a drink of water, or just anything. They are past masters at the art of delay. Parents who are consistently strict in bed- LESSON DEPARTMENT time decisions, find the bedtime struggle minimal. Bedtime is always a problem for parents who succumb to the winning ways of their children by maintaining an unscheduled bedtime. 'This is an area in which parents can unequivocally draw the line, gearing, of course, to the age and circumstances of the child in the family. Mealtime produces parent-child conflict. Parents often become too strict about what, how much, when, and how children eat. Meals will be more enjoyable if parents allow children reasonable freedom in determining these matters. Contented children not only have better digestion, but their personalities assimilate and reflect pleasurable experiences. Food and love are so closely associated in our emotional life we should always strive to make mealtime a happy time. A large number of parent-child problems involving discipline relate to the parent's desire to control] the child for his own good and the child's desire to be independent. Both involve aspects of freedom. This is particularly true in the adolescent period. Parents and children disagree on the appcarance of the child, his hair and clothing, use of the family car, spending money, dating, hours out, places to visit, and so forth. On many of these items parents can be somewhat fluid without danger, keeping in mind always that such situations present excellent opportunities to teach selfcontrol. Parents need to adjust their limitations to the age of the child, and somewhat to community practice. Quite frequently, of late, we hear of groups of parents getting together Te to discuss and formulate rules of social conduct for their children. 'This action forestalls the familiar plea of children that "all the others" can do some certain thing, or can have more expensive things. Parents who have discussed with other parents of the community what their children are allowed to do and to have, and have agreed upon certain restraints, are in a position to refute such complaints. Children are willing to accept controls upon "freedom" if they are fair and consistent. 'Trouble comes to parents who are unwilling to hear the child out or who set different limits at different times when similar circumstances are involved. If parents recognize the importance of the child's growing up and having freedom as he learns control, they will witness with pleasure the gradual development of a desirable maturity in which the little fellow for whom they had so much _ hope, gradually develops the ability to goyern his own life. The most effective time to develop self-control is during the period of childhood. It is, however, a continual process. 'The acceptance of new standards, or conduct patterns, the refinement and discarding of existing ones, is a process closely related to our progress towards perfection. It has, therefore, earthly and immortal aspects. When we build character in ourselves and in our children, therefore, let us "build as if forever." A careful consideration of the words of Dr. James L. Hymes, Jr., a well-known child development specialist will help us, in conclusion, to see the mission of discipline. 780 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah HAWAII TOUR Beautiful Fall Tour Leaving Salt Lake City November 23, 1958 Transportation by Boat or Plane Fourteen-Day Tour Visiting Four Islands CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR Eight-Day Tour Includes Tournament of Roses Parade For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2337, CR 7-6334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 The human has inside of him a unique potentiality: his capacity to think, to reason, to puzzle, to evaluate, to decide. To consider, to compare, to foresee. 'To act according to judgment. 'This is man's crowning glory. This is a developing power, small at birth but enlarging with every passing year. It expands from the specific to the general, from the here and now to the there and then, from a concern with me alone to a feeling for you and all my brothers. What works is what makes it possible for children to grow and develop and mature so that this potentiality becomes a reality. What works is what frees the child to be himself, his human self at every stage of his growing, so this distinctly human facility can come into its own. What works is what allows the child to use the power that is his without the dragging anchor of immaturity (James L. Hymes, Jr.,: Understanding Your Child, Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York, pp. 176- 177). (Reprinted by permission ) Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss: pline. 2. Why is it unwise to correct a child in anger? Before all facts are known? When the child is overtired? 3. Discuss depriving a child of certain privileges as a means of discipline. What are the dangers of threatening a child? 4. Why is it harmful to correct a child in the presence of his friends? Other family members? 5. What does adult self-discipline involve? How is it acquired? 6. What is meant by an under a velvet glove''? 7. Discuss the growing practice in communities of groups of parents getting together to agree upon rules of social conduct for their children. Children appreciate disci- "fron hand Supplementary References 1. "My Father—A True Leader," Emma Rat McKay Asuron, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1957, page wo 2. "Is Your Youngster a Welcome LESSON DEPARTMENT Guest?" Marcarer Hitz, National Parent-Teacher, December 1957, page 31. 3. "Shall the Rod Be Spared in School?" National Parent-Teacher, January 1957, page 16 4. "Many (Sob) Happy Returns," Arr Bucuwatp, National Parent-Teacher, January 1958, page 21. 5. "How Early Does Discipline Begin?" Grorce SueviaKoyv, National ParentTeacher, February 1957, page 4. 6. "How to Discipline Your Children," Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 154, 22 Last 35th Street, New York 16, New York, 25 cents each. 7. "The Shy Child," Public Pamphlet No. 239, 25 cents each. 8. ""The Controversial Problem of Discipline,' KaTHerine M. Wotr, Ph. D., with Atine B. Aversacu, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 30 cents each. G. "The Why and How of Discipline," Avine B. Aversacu with Farrn Laursen, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 40 cents per copy. 10. "The Pre-School Years," Health Education Service, P. O. Box 7283, Albany 1, New York. 11. "The Children We Teach," Nia Rivenour, Human Relations Aids, 1790 Broadway, New York 19, New York. 12. Understanding Your Child, James L. Hymes, Jr., Prentice Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Avenue, New York 11, New York, $2.95. 13. "Maturity — Man's New Horizon," Joun A. Scuinpier, M. D., National Parent-Teacher, September 1957, page 16, Affairs —~oPerspective Beulah Huish Sadleir November walks where autumn's footprints Fade into the quicksand of her shortened days. 781 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH NETTING SUPPLIES NEEDLES — PATTERNS INSTRUCTION BOOKS See ARTCRAFT PRESS Mail Orders Rushed! AS THE HOUSE < X WEDDING " ANNOUNCEMENTS QhFT Py G i SN \\ LTTTTTN\\\ _= AND SUPPLIES PRINTED: ENGRAVEDEMBOSSED THE BEST FOR LESS ry % Meine 402, 21% EAST 2"°SOUTH Salt Lake City The Right Climate (Continued from page 733) sible tables in the rumpus room and I bought lengths of colored oilcloth and white theatrical gauze to put over them. 'That way I could carry out any color scheme I wanted to. I was so afraid I hadn't brought my things with me. But there they were in the same old box in the basement. Somehow it got picked up and brought along." "You haven't always lived here then?" Marge asked. "No, my little house was my grandmother's, and when my world fell apart I just left that world and came here." Her eyes were dark and brooding. "How nice for you that your grandmother's house was here," Marge said. Sister Furness smiled at Marge and went on working. Other women joined them with offers of help, and Sister Furness directed the work, chatting pleasantly with everyone around her. The tables are certainly beautiful, but no more attractive than the women that surround them, Marge thought as she passed the heaping bowls and plates. Everyone seemed to be having such a good time. "Do most of the women seem more dressed up than usual?' she asked Stella when she went into the kitchen. "Probably it's just that they are not wearing their coats," Stella answered, but that answer didn't satisfy Marge. MARGE heard one young mother say to her neighbor, "What Page 782 a good idea this tablecloth is. I'm so rushed that I'm afraid I mostly forget the niceties of life. I could use this idea with nylon net and that would drip dry." "Things like this are not really too much work. It's just that we don't think about them," her neighbor answered. "These get-togethers are good because they sort of jack us up and make us see some of the things we could do to make our lives more attractive." Further down the table someone asked Marge, "Do you know who brought this small-leafed ivy? I'd like to get a start." "All the flowers came from Sister Furness. I'm sure she'd be glad to help you get some started. Remind me after lunch. I'll introduce you." "Pinch me and see if I'm dreaming," Marge heard the mother of four young children say. "I can't believe this is I. Sitting down, being served, and not a child to tip over a glass of milk or orange juice." The women on both sides of her laughed, and one said, "I think I most enjoy the adult conversation." Hearing these young mothers talk brought memories of her own younger married days, and Marge knew that she had felt the same way. She had felt as if the time would never come when she could get away from the four walls of her own kitchen. She remembered how it was to have to hire a baby sitter every time she left home and money so scarce that a sitter was a real treat. She understood how comfortable these women felt with their children well cared THE RIGHT CLIMATE GOOD LIGHT BRINGS BETTER SIGHT Ky \) KL ' Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 783 SPECIAL! SPECIAL! 1959 TOUR TO EUROPE IN JUNE Write for itineraries for the European, Hawaiian, and Historic Train Tours. Get your reservations early as groups will be limited. For further information Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 for in a warm room while they relaxed with other women who had the same interests. Finally the dishes were cleared up. The last woman had gone to Sister Smart for the bean recipe, to Sister Morgan for the molded salad, and to Sister Sheperd for the upsidedown cake. Every one was working at the various handcrafts when Marge felt a timid touch on _ her shoulder, and turned to see Sister Turner, the oldest member of Relief Society. "Thank you for a wonderful party," Sister Turner said. "I always look forward to these parties. It's so nice to eat with people. Seems like when you eat all by yourself the food doesn't have much taste. This is the nicest party we ever had." Marge was touched almost to @ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles... 2. Ans 150 to 300 miles —.......20 0. A) 300 to 600 miles ' 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles.. 1400 to 1800 miles... Over 1800 miles............22ccceeeeeeeeee Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 784 GIFTS GIFTS GIFTS Make Pembroke's Your Christmas Headquarters! Mail Orders are promptly handled. 24 East Broadway SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH WE CAN GIVE YOU IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT ON ALL THE MUSIC FOR USE OF RELIEF SOCIETIES in connection with course on AMERICA'S LITERATURE commencing October, 1958. And also We carry all suggested music for SINGING MOTHERS GROUPS! "Instant Courteous Service' GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 74 So. Main St. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1958 tears. Why had she never thought about the people who ate alone? "Your drones put on a wonderful party today," Melba Chase said as they were locking up that afternoon. "Tm so ashamed I said that," Marge answered. "Everyone I asked wanted to do something. No one wanted to be a drone. They just didn't know how to get started. I'm so thankful you gave me this assignment. Besides everything else, I have three new friends." "That's Relief Society," Melba said. "You'll be the first friend some of those women have had for a long time." "Friends are like flowers, they grow in the right climate, with loving care," Marge said and put her arm around Melba in a grateful squeeze. —<——~ GB irthda y Co ngra tulatio ns Ninety-four Mrs. Cuarsty LArson BAsTIAN Calgary, Alberta Canada Ninety-two Mrs. Errie Wittey Hott Burley, Idaho Mrs. EmMA FuHRIMAN ZOLLINGER Weston, Idaho Mrs. Avice SOULE Little Rock, Arkansas Ninety-one Mrs. Dorruea ZACHER ARAVA Hooper, Utah Mrs. AMELIA COLEMAN Ogden, Utah Ninety Mrs. Atice BytrueEway McDonaLp Salt Lake City, Utah GIVE BOOKS THIS CHRISTMAS FROM DESERET BOOK l. Answers to eZ Gospel Questions: Awe rs VOLUME II Joseph Fielding Smith «PPA. I In this second volume, President Smith gives — (spt lected from a doctrinal point of interest, and many have never been presented to the public before. Among them, answers on non-segregation, the authority of Jesus, cremation of the dead, guided missiles and interplanetary travel. $2.50 VOLUME I—$2.50 Fe oe A Century -. Aie DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) I have an account. Please 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City, Utah charge. Amount enclosed $........... - for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2. INGUUKS ccc ecco LLL EE EEE EEE EO J. Spencer Cornwall The author of this book has been conductor of the famous Tabernacle Choir from 1935 to 1957. He relates the colorful history of this 111-year-old group, cites many interesting anecdotes and offers invaluable information. Readers will especially enjoy the write-up on the recent European Tour. $3.95 answers to 50 vital questions, asked by members of the Church. These questions have been seGit y acca scence cence lands rm (}yestlt; Zone.......... OanSe ee. STITUTE OF pric ie SOUTH RESYOoD ROAD =D LAKE CITY, UTAH 84107 UHI~11~186-iiCis SEP 59 eee 10:; ig | OT: OF = SUGAR < < PUR! Thanks 9 Wwutg FINE a A day for thanks... A day for feasting... A A day for family and friends... Stuffed turkey, cranberry sauce and candied yams, not to mention plum pudding, whipped-cream-smothered pumpkin pies, cookies, cakes and candy, all help to make Thanksgiving the special day that it is. For your fancy Thanksgiving recipes and throughout the year, use U and I Sugar. It's as fine, as white, as pure a sugar as money can buy, and it is available at your grocers in 5-Ib., 10-lb., 25-lb. And 50-Ib. Bags, or in the handy 1-lb. Cartons: Brown, Powdered, Superfine Dessert or Fine Granulated. . MAGAZINE — « VOL. 45 NO. 12 DECEMBER Lessons for Marche. Suan @ ChAAsimas Sree Eva Willes Wangsgaard Here in this wintered garden crisply white I stand in pansy dark, aware of light. Cold shadows lie mauve-blue upon the snow And Christmas-tree bejeweled windows throw Their widening paths of gold. Far hills of blue Are shouldering out the larger world I knew, And, angel-like, the clouds can all but sing, For Christmas is so intimate a thing. At any moment now I'll hear the beat Of sandal scuffs, a donkey's twinkling feet Bringing a Virgin in a deep-blue gown Into my dreaming heart's Judean Town. How wonderful a Babe long-born can lie So warm and real upon my breast while I Am centuries away where drifts of white Have hid the garden where I stand tonight! And angel themes a moment can be heard Above the rocket's shrill and shivery word: Now I can go back to a tinseled star Knowing that God is with us where we are. A Child was born within a hay-sweet stall And even a Christmas Tree grows strangely tall. The Cover: "The Rest on the Flight Into Egypt" (Detail) From a painting by Gerard David National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. From the Mellon Collection Frontispiece: Wintertime in City Creek Canyon, Salt Lake City, Utah Photograph by Frank Millburn Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Tear and Sar I am still in a nostalgic mood after reading and rereading "When Threshers Came," by Alice Morrey Bailey, the frontispiece poem in the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine. For those who remember the sight of the big, bunglesome thresher lumbering its way towards your place at threshing time, Alice Bailey's descriptive poem will surely start you reminiscing. As a girl I loved to watch the threshers lather up their faces, then dip the water up out of the square washtub and blow and splash it all over their faces and emerge looking so shiny! After reading the poem, my mother-in-law recalled seeing her mother gather all the bedticks and fill them with clean straw at threshing time. "How wonderful they felt, so full and fluffy," she said. 'Thanks for the memories! —Marva Hale Chambers North Ogden, Utah My heart is filled with appreciation for so many of the poems, articles, and stories in each issue of our Magazine. —Mabel Law Atkinson Salt Lake City, Utah In the January lesson on_ literature ("Some Puritan Women," published in the October 1958 Magazine), it states that the family of Anne Hutchinson were massacred by Indians. My husband is a grandson of Parley P. Pratt, and in his grandfather's autobiography, page 469, Orson Pratt gives the descendants of Susanna Hutchinson, the one daughter who escaped and returned to her relatives in Rhode Island. Then, on page 465, you will find the genealogical record that gives the connection of the Pratt brothers with the Hutchinson family. —Lorana Pratt Tillamook, Oregon Here in Europe... The German sisters' faces light up when they find The Relief Society Magazine in their Deutsche Post. —Ethelyn J. Madsen A. P. O. 29 New York, New York Page 786 I wish to express gratitude for the fine article ""Whom and Where Will You Marry?" by Elder ElRay L. Christiansen in the October issue of the Magazine. I wish all our young people would follow the inspirational counsel given in that article, so that they might enter into marriage with a full realization of their sacred responsibilities. The frontispiece photograph is lovely, showing the time of falling leaves, and I love the poem "Sung in October," (frontispiece) by Dorothy J. Roberts. —Mrs. Walter A. Christensen Murray, Utah Thank you for the time and effort it must take to prepare the Magazine for us to read. I have always enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine very much. It is wonderful for the women of the Church to have such an outlet for self-expression. —Loya Beck Warner Robins, Georgia I have been looking for a recipe for scones for a long time and now I have found that wonderful recipe on page 666 of the October Magazine in the "Recipes From the New Zealand Mission," by Wealtha S. Mendenhall. I appreciate all the fine recipes in the Magazine, and think that the representative recipes from many countries are a delight to have. All the poetry is lovely. I especially like "Fall Fantasy," by Annie Atkin Tanner, and "Blue Spruces," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, in the October Magazine. —Annabeth Olsen Laramie, Wyoming I enjoy reading The Relief Society Magazine and gain so much help and inspiration from every department. —LaVerda M. Allen Rupert, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - = = = = - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Aleine oa Young Edith P. Backman Mary V. Oe eee Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B Bay Winnietred S. Christine H, Robinson Manwaring Alberta H. Christensen Elna P. Haymond Mildred B. Eyring Annie M. Ellsworth Afton W. Hun Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Evon W. Peterson Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - o Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - esta Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford VOL. 45 DECEMBER 1958 NO. 12 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Three Realms in Which Woman's Influence Should Ever Be Paramount........... David O. McKay 788 Annual General Relief Society ee en Hulda Parker 794 Elder William Jae Critchlow, Jr. Alma Sonne 797 Elder Alvin R. Dyer Joseph T. Bentley 800 A New Spire Toward Heaven Donna T. Smart 802 No, Thank You! 818 Christmas Seal Scle—1958 ounce ecescececcececeeceeecececeecseseecenesceneeceespensesenensensseansoeseneseceaeeDorthea M. Lindsey 819 FICTION Christmas Is Where the Heart Is Rosa Lee Lloyd 808 "Not to the Swift,''"—Chapter 6—Conclusion........ Deone R. Sutherland 827 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 786 Sixty Years Ago 814 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 815 Editorial: The 128th SemiAnnual Church ConferenceVesta P. Crawford 816 New Serial ''The Silver Leash'' to Begin in january 826 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 834 Birthday Congratulations 864 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Deck The Halls Helen Spencer Williams 820 A Christmas Card Tree for Your Window Sylvia Pezoldt 823 You Can Sew—X—Other Edge Finishes 0... Jean R. Jennings 824 Rachel Ann Giles Specializes in Fine Cut-Work Embroidery 831 Quick Little Gifts for Girls Clara Laster 832 LESSONS FOR MARCH Theology—The Responsibilities of the Members of the Church oo... CuccecccseeeeeeeeeRoy W. Doxey 838 Visiting Teacher Messages—''Beware of Pride, Lest Thou Shouldst Enter Into Temptation" Christine H. Robinson 845 Work Meeting—Making the Most of Time and Energy Vesta Barnett 847 Literature—The Mather Dynasty Briant S. Jacobs 848 Social Science—''We Seek After These Things"' John Farr Larson 855 POETRY Even a Christmas Tree—Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard 785 The Hotiy Land Dorothy J. Roberts 793 Weaving Catherine B. Bowles 799 No Lack of Miracle Maude Rubin 817 Grannies Ethel Jacobson 822 Teacher of Music Elsie McKinnon Strachan 823 Who Can Know the Stars? Oo... Ccesces cceeecceeee nesceeeeneesseenseee soos Maude O. Cook 826 Winter Morning Sylvia Probst Young 833 FR@CIPTOCITY —...---.. Sencres: sesecessceesorsvonssensesasesesessseeasrenesnerecversnenavenensnsesonezascnensnenscansneessscaceerezdGrace Ingles Frost 844 December Violets Mabel Law Atkinson 846 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1958 by oa General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subseription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address, Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 787 Three Realms in Which Woman's Influence Should Ever Be Paramount President David O. McKay (Address Delivered at the General Session, Relief Society General Conference, Wednesday, October 8, 1958) ISTER Spafford, sisters, and S brethren. When Sister Longden in her opening prayer said, ""We thank thee that we are women," I said amen with all my heart. When I think of what you do, the responsibilities you carry in the home and elsewhere, and the sufferings you undergo, I am thankful lam aman. (Laughter.) I wish to offer a few words of commendation and congratulation. I congratulate the Relief Society upon this large attendance. If you all come next Friday morning, I don't know what we will do with the men. (Laughter.) 'They couldn't be replaced by a choicer group in the world than that which we face this afternoon. With all my heart I commend the Singing Mothers. 'Think what they have done in rendering this inspiring service this afternoon! Think of four hundred of them attending practices in their various wards for weeks preceding this event! Four hundred women, paying their railroad fare, bus fares from California, and their own expenses while they are here, practicing together under Sister Madsen, to render the inspiring music! I wish all the world could realize what their presence and their singing this afternoon really signify. I wish to commend, in-your presPage 788 ence, the influence your President, Sister Spafford, exerted over in London recently when she accepted the appointment to attend the dedicatory service of the London Temple. She doesn't know the sources from which I express the thoughts that I am now going to give you. They certainly did not come from her. While the dedicatory service was going on, she was the guest of Lady Reading and others, and rendered a wonderful service which will redound to the good of Relief Society and of the Church generally. I received two letters from Lady Reading in which she expressed great appreciation for her companionship and association with your President. I commend those who preceded me this afternoon, the sisters, and the messages they have given, and I pray for the same inspiration which has accompanied them in_ their speaking. 'This has indeed been a glorious session. I pray that what I say may be in harmony with the instructions given by your leaders. We are living in a_ changing world. We are in the midst of it, so near us that many of us fail to realize or discern while changes are being brought about. I noticed this recently when we were being driven from the airport in London to our hotel, about twenty or twenty-five THREE REALMS IN WHICH WOMAN'S INFLUENCE SHOULD EVER BE PARAMOUNT = 789 miles distance. I noticed the difference in transportation. Sixty years before this recent visit, I crossed on a steamboat to Great Britain. It took, as I remember, about sevenand-a-half days. 'That morning we had been only fourteen hours from New York, and we were delayed by head winds and the pilot thought it best to land at Shannon, Ireland, to refuel. As I say, it took fourteen hours. Think of the progress during those sixty years! Then another thing, as we were being driven to the hotel, I was surprised at the number of autos, or rather, at the absence of the fine Clydesdale horses that I saw sixty years before, drawing heavily loaded lorries. Not one did we see during that entire trip that morning. All had given way to the advance in building and driving of automobiles, trucks, etc. Another thing, I was surprised to see a lady policeman — women policemen. Sixty years before that, even thirty years so far as I was concerned, we hadn't thought that was a field for women to enter. And I learned, while I was in London, of the efficiency of women as women policemen. N 1930, there were over eight million women workers gainfully employed. Today, as we have learned, there are twenty-eight million. There has been a vast increase in women workers during the last twenty-five years in various occupations in which, formerly, only men participated. And this great increase is particularly among married women. Now I don't know that there is any objection to women entering the fields of literature, science, art, social economy, study and progress, and all kinds of learning, or participation in any and all things which contribute to the fulness of her womanhood and increase her upbuilding influence in the world; but I do know that there are three areas or realms in which women's influence should always be felt. No matter what changes take place, these three realms should be dominated always by the beauty, the virtue, and intelligence of womankind. I should like to refer to those three. The first has been covered impressively by Sister Spafford, and that is the realm of home building. Next to that is the realm of teaching, and the third, which has already been emphasized, the realm of compassionate service. "Someday," writes one of our leading columnists, "when women realize that the object of their emancipation is not to make them more like men, but more powerfully womanly, and therefore of greater use to men and themselves, and society, this implicit demand and need of women for a world based, not on mechanical but on human principles, may break through as the most important influence upon history, and bring with it a renaissance of liberalism and humanism." Nor is it necessary to convince us of the potency of home influence in shaping character. 'There are certain trusts to which it is only necessary to call attention and minds instinctively assent to them. Some of these trusts are that the home sentiment is second only to religion in influencing the human mind, and all else may be forgotten, but the experiences of childhood will remain undimmed on the walls of 790 memory. "Napoleon understood well the nature of home and its influence, when he said, "The great need of France is mothers.' "In democratic countries like the United States and Canada, where the fate of the nation is in the hands of the people, the future of the nation is in the hands of the children. They must be fitted for their high responsibilities by the influences of home. 'These countries should fear the disloyalty and contention of the fireside more than nefarious plots of scheming politicians. If boys wrangle and contend at home, if they cannot discuss with dignity the little questions that arise in their daily intercourse with one another, be sure they will not honor the Nation when they take their places in Senate, Parliament, or Congress to discuss the great problems that confront the civilization of the twentieth century. 'SNTOW, if home may be so powerful an influence for good, how important becomes the cultivation of the home sentiment. To be destitute of this sentiment is almost as great a misfortune as to be destitute of the religious sentiment. Indeed, we believe that one cannot possess a true exalted love of home while there is wanting in his character that which unawakened may yield the fruit of a godly life." (And I cannot think of a member of this Church, particularly one who holds a prominent position, being cruel to his wife, especially before children. I think he is not a good member of the Church; he is not a good Christian. And for a man to strike a woman, as I have heard recently, is just beastly.) "What a mighty RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 responsibility rests upon him who essays to make a home, for the founding of a home is as sacred a work as the founding of a Church. Indeed, every home should be a temple dedicated to divine worship, where human beings through life should worship God through the service of mutual love,—the highest. Tribute man can pay to God" (Our Home, page 38). One of the greatest needs in the world today is intelligent, conscientious motherhood. It is to the home that we must look for the inculcation of the fundamental virtues which contribute to human welfare and happiness. Womanhood should be intelligent and pure, because it is the living, life-fountain from which flows the stream of humanity. She who would pollute that stream by smoking tobacco, using poisonous drugs or by germs that would shackle the unborn, is untrue to her sex, and an enemy to the strength and perpetuity of the race. The laws of life and the revealed word of God combine in placing upon motherhood and fatherhood the responsibility of giving to children, not only a pure, unshackled birth, but also a training in faith and righteousness. 'They ought to be taught "to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old." To those who neglect this in precept and example, the Doctrine and Covenants says, 'the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D & C 68:85). There seems to be sweeping over the nations of the earth at the pres- THREE REALMS IN WHICH WOMAN'S INFLUENCE SHOULD EVER BE PARAMOUNT ent time a wave of disbelief in God, of disregard for agreements, of dishonesty in personal as well as in civil and international affairs. 'There is a reversion to the rule and law of the jungle in which might makes right. David Harum's silver rule, "Do unto the other fellow what the other fellow wants to do to you, and do it first," too often supplants the Golden Rule, "Do unto others as you would have others do unto you." Political poison is being administered to the youth of America by advocates of communism professedly interested in fostering liberty, peace, and democracy, but who insidiously attempt to influence youth associated with what they call the National Youth Administration, or American Student Union, and various other organizations, as some other poison being administered, secretly, as we have learned recently, even in the mission field by cultists who do not hesitate to lie and misrepresent supposed _principles of the gospel. N an article recently printed in a current magazine appears this statement: "There are a great many more young Communists in universities in this country than most of the adult population even dares to realize. 'That is because," continues the quotation, "parents do not bother to ask their children what their beliefs are." There is one effective source which can counteract such teaching, and that is the teaching of an intelligent, Christian mother. 'The times cry for more true religion in the home. Now I should like to say a word about teaching. Every mother is a 791 teacher, she cannot help it. Either good or bad, the mother's image is the first that stamps itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world. Her influence, either good or bad, implanted during the first years of his childhood, lingers with him and permeates his thoughts and memory as distinctively as perfume clings to each flower. In her office as mother, she holds the key to the soul, and she determines his character. UT mother is not the only one who exerts an influence as teacher. Often it is a maiden aunt who many times exerts a greater influence than the mother; yet her labors, "gleaming hopes, and obscure sacrifices, her solitary broodings and vicarious ambitions, have seldom received attention from the historian or the biographer. As a molder and shaper of the unpromising material of nephews and nieces, she has been allowed to live, toil, and die unpraised." Thus writes Phillips Russell as he comments upon the influence of Mary Moody Emerson upon Ralph Waldo Emerson. Emerson reflects her influence upon him when he comments as follows: "She is no statute-book of practical commandments, nor orderly digest of any system of philosophy, divine or human, but she is a Bible, miscellaneous in its parts, but one in spirit, wherein are sentences of condemnation, promises, and covenants of love that make foolish the wisdom of the world!" 792 Read Emerson's life and see how his aunt's influence shaped his course and made a sickly boy one who is recognized as the greatest thinker in America. And now I should like to say a word about the young girls as teachers. If we can make our girls think that they are living in a realm where they have power to shape the destiny of teen-agers, it would be a wonderful thing in society. I do not know whether we can, but I shall give a hint. One of the greatest safeguards for a teen-age girl is a consciousness that by her words and acts, she contributes to the betterment or degradation of society— that in protecting or defending herself from the questionable advances of a scheming young man, she honors herself and womankind by resistance rather than by indulgence. She can do this by answering his flattering words of pretended love by saying in her own words, "No man will injure one he loves. 7 Thus, in her early career, she becomes not an enticer but a teacher, her natural and noble calling. EXT to motherhood and teaching, woman attains her highest glory in the realm of compassionate service. One of the most impressive instances in the Bible is the history told by one or of one to whom I apply the title, "a Relief Society sister of the Ancient Church" whose life was full of "good works and almsdeeds which she did." Her name was Tabitha, "which by interpretation is called Dorcas" (which means gazelle, beautiful). This story is told by Luke: "And it came to pass in those days, that she was sick, and died: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber. "And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring him that he would not delay to come to them." (One of the interesting experiences of tourists today is to visit that old town.) "Then Peter arose and went with them. When he was come, they brought him into the upper chamber: and all the widows stood by him weeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas made, while she was with them. "But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled down, and prayed; and turning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes: and when she saw Peter, she sat up. "And he gave her his hand, and lifted her up, and when he had called the saints and widows, presented her alive" (Acts 9:36-41). What a story is told in those few words! This scene implies the kind, helpful service rendered by the women in the Ancient Church. The desire to render service to the wounded, sick, and dying gave to the world one of the most potent organizations among nations today. I refer to the International Red Cross Association. Its beneficent tree, which now sheds its fruit on all lands, sprang from the seed of love and compassion in the heart of Florence Nightingale. I hope I am not — will not be considered as boasting when I say that the most beautiful and, undoubtedly, the most efficient organization in the realm of service is THREE REALMS IN WHICH WOMAN'S INFLUENCE SHOULD EVER BE PARAMOUNT 793 the Relief Society of the Church. Through this channel, your myriad deeds of service sparkle like gems in a crown— To chase the clouds of life's tempestuous hours, To strew its short but weary way with flow' rs, New hopes to raise, new feelings to impart, And pour celestial balsam on the heart; For this to man was lovely woman giv'n, The last, best work, the noblest gift of Heav'n. (—T. L. Peacock, "The Vision of Love," I, 1) Let me emphasize, dear sisters, that woman's realm is not man's realm, though equally important and extensive, and you excel, undoubtedly, I know you do, man in many vocations, which years gone by were considered man's activity alone. 'The greatest harmony and happiness in life will be found when womankind is helped and honored in the sphere in which God and nature destined her most effectively to serve and bless mankind. I have named three of those. There are many more, but the more that men honor her in those realms, the happier will be men and women and children throughout the world. In the words of 'Tennyson: For woman is not undevelopt man, But diverse. Could we make her as the man, Sweet Love were slain; his dearest bond is this, Not like to like, but like in difference. Yet in the long years liker must they grow; The man be more of woman, she of man; He gain in sweetness and in moral height, Nor lose the wrestling thews that throw the world; She mental breadth, nor fail in childward care, Nor lose the childlike in the larger mind; Till at the last she set herself to man, Like perfect music unto noble words: And so these twain, upon the skirts of Time, Sit side by side, full summ'd in all their powers, Dispensing harvest, sowing the To-be, Self-reverent each and reverencing each, Distinct in individualities, But like each other ev'n as those who love. Then comes the statelier Eden back to men: Then reign the world's great bridals, chaste and calm. Then springs the crowning race of humankind. May these things be! (—A. Rrep Lorp Tennyson, "The Princess," VII, lines 259-281) God bless you mothers—home builders, angels of mercy. May your influence continue to spread, and your sweet, tender services bring comfort and consolation to those in need, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. She Holy Land Dorothy J. Roberts Gentle sheep forever walk The cool, green valleys of the clock, Kindly shepherds guard them still From the crown of every hill. The Annual General Relief Society Conference — 1958 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer HE Annual General Relief Society Conference was held in Salt Lake City on Wednesday and 'Thursday, October § and g. For days before the conference convened, Relief Society leaders from all over the Church started converging in Salt Lake City. With the cancellation of the conference a year ago, because of the flu epidemic, there seemed to be a more than usual hungering on the part of these leaders for the inspiration that comes from assembling together in the Tabernacle to receive the counsel and instruction that would help them carry forward in their responsibilities in Relief Society. The opening session in the Tabernacle on Wednesday morning was for stake and mission officers and board members, at which challenging and inspirational addresses were given by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen, the Relief Society advisors of the Council of the Twelve. President Belle S. Spafford also presented the Report and Official Instructions. The roll call in this session showed representation from thirteen missions and all but three stakes in the Church. Although mission Relief Society presidents were not in attendance at the conference, several missions were represented by district officers. 'The total attendance of 2312 included 2265 stake Relief Society leaders and forty-seven mission representatives. 'The music for this session was provided by the Page 794 Bonneville Stake Singing Mothers Chorus of 120 voices, with Shirley Swensen conducting and Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ. The general session for Relief Society members and the general public was held in the 'Tabernacle on Wednesday afternoon. As the main speaker, President David O. McKay delivered a most impressive address counselling the women of the Church regarding their great responsibilities as mothers and homemakers. Sister McKay accompanied him in attendance at this session. Other addresses were given by President Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, Counselor Louise W. Madsen, and _ Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker. The Relief Society General Presidency and General Board members were also sustained. A 450-voice combined chorus of Singing Mothers from Southern California sang ""T'each Me, O Lord" and "My Soul Is Athirst for God." The chorus was conducted by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, with Elder Frank W. Asper at the organ. The participants in the chorus were from the following stakes: Bakersfield, Burbank, Covina, East Long Beach, East Los Angeles, Glendale, Inglewood, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Mt. Rubidoux, Orange County, Pasadena, Redondo, Reseda, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Diego East, San Fernando, Santa Ana, Santa Monica, and South Los Angeles. This chorus also provided the music for the Friday and Saturday sessions of General Conference. ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE— 1958 795 Courtesy Deseret News PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY SPEAKING AT THE GENERAL SESSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE, OCTOBER 8, 1958 Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of the President, is seated at the left, and Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, is seated on the right. Elder LeGrand Richards (left), and Elder Delbert L. Stapley (right), of the Council of the 'fwelve, are scatcd in the foreground. Singing Mothers may be seen at the back. 796 On Wednesday evening the Relief Society General Board received approximately 2200 stake board members and mission representatives at a beautifully appointed reception in the Relief Society Building. Departmental meetings were held in the Tabernacle 'Thursday morning and afternoon for stake and mission officers and board members. In these meetings impressive presentations were given introducing the educational courses of study and visiting teaching messages for the 1958-59 season. Theology and literature were featured in the morning. 'The theology course was discussed by Elder Roy W. Doxey, the author of the current course on the Doctrine and Covenants. This was followed by a presentation entitled, "The Lord Hath Spoken," and a testimony by Sister Jeanne Carr Orchard. 'The new literature course on American Literature was impressively introduced by the dramatic program, "Meet the New World." The afternoon meeting featured visiting teacher messages and the social science course of study. Fruits of visiting teacher messages were portrayed through a demonstration entitled "Family Tell." The social science course on "The Latter-day Saint Family" was highlighted with a dialogue by Sisters Mildred B. Eyring and Edith P. Backman of the General Board and a reading with musical background by Sister Emily C. Wright entitled, "The Perfect Earth Home," which was taken from an address to Relief Society by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in 1940. Separate departmental _ sessions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 then followed for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, Magazine representatives, and class leaders. All stake and mission class leaders met together for special demonstrations and instructions on teaching aids adapted to the current courses of study. Separate departments were also held the entire afternoon for music and work meeting leaders.. One of the outstanding features of the conference was a dramatic presentation given in the presidencies department entitled "A Light Shining," which portrayed the broad horizons of visiting teaching. The music for this presentation was provided by the Holladay Stake Singing Mothers conducted by Sister Wilma Bunker, with Elder Roy M. Darley at the organ. It was the general feeling of those in attendance that this was a most outstanding Relief Society Conference, that the blessings of the Lord were felt in rich abundance in each of the sessions, and that the inspiration, counsel, and instructions given will redound to the good of the work of Relief Society throughout the Church. The following addresses have already appeared in the November issue of the Magazine: ""The Mission of Womankind," by President Belle S. Spafford; "The Grand Key-Word of Relief Society," by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; "The Key Is Turned," by Counselor Louise W. Madsen; and ''Report and Official Instructions," by President Spafford. The address by President David O. McKay, "Three Realms in Which Woman's Influence Should Ever Be Paramount," appears in this issue of the Magazine. Other addresses will appear as follows: by President Joseph Fielding Smith in the January 1959 issue of the Magazine; by Elder Mark E. Petersen in February; and by General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker, in March. Elder William James Critchlow, Jr. Elder Alma Sonne Assistant to the Council of the Twelve ELDER WILLIAM J. CRITCHLOW, JR. RESIDENT Critchlow, as he P is known in the South Ogden Stake, is a product of the Church. Prior to his becoming the President of the South Ogden Stake on December 7, 1941, he had served as second counselor to President Robert I. Burton in the Mt. Ogden Stake and as first counselor to President William H. Reeder in the same stake. On October 11, 1958, Elder Critchlow was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of 'The Twelve. His capabilities as a leader have been demonstrated many times during his long service in the wards and stakes. No worldly ambitions have been allowed to stand in the way of his devotion to the program of the Church. He always found time to meet the requirements of his callings. His ability to organize his time and energies for service, accounts, in some measure, for his success as a leader among his brethren. Those who know him best are aware of his solicitude for others and his untiring efforts to promote good will and congeniality in the ranks of the membership. Elder Critchlow's personality reflects the warmth and friendliness of one who loves his fellow men. He will find a host of admirers throughout the Church as he has within the stake where he has presided so long and well. He began his activity as a leader in the Church when he was made a member of the presidency of a deacon's quorum. Upon being ordained to the office of a teacher he was again chosen and sustained in the presidency of that quorum. It was a signal and a preparation for the responsibilities which were to follow. He advanced step by step as he responded to other calls and as his activity increased. As a Seventy he was the class instructor of his quorum. As a member of the Mt. Ogden Stake he became the president of the ward MIA. In this service he was recognized as an effective leader and was chosen on two occasions as a member of the stake presidency. In the Weber Stake he was similarly in demand. In the Eleventh Ward of that stake he served as a counselor and later as a superintendent of the Sunday Page 797 ELDER WILLIAM J. CRITCHLOW JR. AND HIS FAMILY Children in the front row: William J. Critchlow IV (son of William J. Critchlow III); Kent 'Taylor Critchlow (son of Robert Taylor Critchlow); Terri Maughan; Sidney Marie Critchlow (daughter of William J. Critchlow ITT). Scated in the second row, left to right: Elder William J. Critchlow, Jr.; Anna Taylor Critchlow; Peggy Wood Critchlow (wife of William J. Critchlow II), holding baby Sherry; Clarene Clifton Critchlow (wife of Robert Taylor Critchlow), holding baby Ann Critchlow; Clifton Robert Critchlow, son of Robert Taylor Critchlow. Standing in the back row, left to right: Datus H. Maughan; his wife, Patricia Critchlow Maughan, holding son Dennis Maughan; William J. Critchlow II; Robert Taylor Critchlow. School, a counselor to the President of the MIA and, in the First Ward, he was the Priesthood organist. His activity and his love for the truth knew no bounds. He attended the public schools of Ogden and the Weber Academy. When he was graduated from the public school he was president of his graduating class. When he entered the Weber Academy he was chosen president of the freshman class. He won the love and confidence of his classmates and the next year he was made president of the sophomore class. His popularity and his fitness for leadership soon became known, and he was chosen to be the secretary and treasurer of the student body and later its president. Because of his activities in the school he also became the president of the athletic association, the associate manager of the school publication, and a member of the debating team. His business career began in 1912 as an employee of the Utah Light 798 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 ELDER WILLIAM JAMES CRITCHLOW, JR. And Railway Company, Ogden, Utah. Within a short time he was clevated to the position of chicf clerk with the Utah Light and 'Traction Company, the successors of his former employers. In due course he became the Credit Manager of the Utah Power and Light Company, a successor company, and soon rose to the position of Sales Manager and later Business Development Manager, a position which he now holds. He will retire from this position on November 1, 1958, and devote his time to his Church as an Assistant to the 'T'welve. His record of achievement and recognition are reassuring to those who will look forward to meeting him in his new position of leadership. Elder Critchlow was married to Anna Maria Taylor, a daughter of Patriarch Charles Hyde Taylor, on August 20, 1924. 'They are the parents of three children, Patricia (Mrs. Datus H. Maughan), William James Critchlow III, and Robert Taylor Critchlow. Patricia is a graduate of the Brigham Young University as a music major; Wil- 1 liam J., IIT, after filling a mission to Sweden, studied law at the University of Utah and the George Washmgton University. He graduated from the latter University with a Juris Doctor Law Degree. Robert 'Taylor graduated from the Brigham Young University with a Bachelor's Degree in Marketing and Business Administration. Eight — grandchildren have now been added to the Critchlow family. Sister Critchlow, like her husband, has held many positions of leadership and responsibility in the Church. A union of interests and responsibilities has characterized the Critchlow family. Activity has been their watchword. Sister Critchlow's Church work has taken her into all the auxiliary organizations. Positions in the Sunday School, the YWMIA, and Relief Society, the Primary, and the genealogical class have enriched her life and given her a full knowledge of the aims and purposes of the over-all program as it affects the individual, the home and the family. 2 ——oWVrea vin g Catherine B. Bowles There are many threads in the web of life, A checkered fabric of love and strife; Some somber colors, yet sometimes gay, Go into the pattern that makes our day. The threads are precious, slender, and fine, Worn thin by heartache and deeds that shine. When colors are beautiful, fadeless, and rare They bring richest blessings all can share. Elder Alvin R. Dyer Joseph T. Bentley Superintendent, Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association ELDER ALVIN R. DYER T the Saturday morning general session of the 128th Semi-Annual Conference held on October 11, 1958, Elder Alvin R. Dyer was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Apostles. This great and important calling in the Church and kingdom of God is the climax to a life of great devotion and service, for Elder Dyer has been actively devoted to sincere and effective service in the Church all his life. In fact, the one quality which characterizes his life, perhaps more than any other, is the zeal and enthusiasm with which he undertakes any job. Elder Dyer was born January 1, 1904, in Salt Lake City, a son of Page 800 Alfred Robert and Harriet Walsh Dyer. His grandparents came to this country as converts and were faithful pioneers, having come to Utah in the early days. He attended school in Salt Lake, and distinguished himself in baseball and other forms of athletics. In 1922 he was called on a mission to the Eastern States, where he served for two years. He was married in the Salt Lake Temple June 2, 1926, to May Elizabeth Jackson. The Dyer's have two children, a daughter Gloria May Klein, who lives in Salt Lake City, and a son Brent Rulon Dyer, who is attending the Brigham Young University. They have one grandson, Mark R. Klein, who is a son of Mr. And Mrs. Reed Klein. Elder Dyer has been active in Church work all his life, serving as a ward YMMIA superintendent, superintendent of the ward Sunday School, on the high council of two stakes, as a member of several bishoprics, and then as bishop of the Monument Park Ward for five years. In 1954 he was called to preside over the Central States Mission, where he served until called to the General Superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in June 1958. It has indeed been a great pleasure to work with Elder Dyer these past few months and to feel his spirit and love for the fine young people of the Church. His organizing ability and his penchant for wanting the facts in every situation have pro- ELDER ALVIN R. DYER jected a program of analysis and study of the great MIA program that will be of great benefit to the MIA and the young people of the Church. Elder Dyer has been active in civic work as well as Church work, having been a member of the Exchange Club of Salt Lake City, and he is still a member of the Missouri Historical Society and the Jackson City Historical Society. Professionally, he is a self-made man, having studied professional work through correspondence courses and getting his education largely ELDER ALVIN R. DYER AND THS FAMILY 801 through his own efforts. However, he has been successful in business, and is a former member of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers, and has been 4 consultant for the American Military Enginecrs. Both Elder and Mrs. Dyer are able and enthusiastic and devoted members of the Church; and, because of his vast experience and ability, Elder Dyer will enthusiastically take up the work of his new calling with his usual devoted service to the Church. Front row. Left to right: Elder Alvin R. Dyer, holding his grandson Mark Klein; May Jackson Dyer. In the center, Gloria Dver Klein ed Klein Back row, standing, left to nght: R daughter son-in-law); Brent Dver (son) A New Spire Toward Heaven Donna Toland Smart HEN the book that records W the religious history of this generation is opened, bright on its pages will be the story of the dedication of the London Temple. And at that future time many of the 76,324 pre-dedication visitors may join with Church members in testimony of the power felt within those beautiful, sacred rooms. Approximately 8,000 worthy members enjoyed the Spirit of the Lord through one or more of the six dedicatory services. Untold numbers will yet do so in regular temple ordinance sessions. * OK OK OK Situated some thirty miles from the heart of London, standing white against the brilliant green backdrop of an English countryside, the temple is indeed a house of beauty. Modestly hidden from view except for the sky-piercing spire, this House of God rises majestic behind an ancient, ivy-covered brick wall. Great stretches of lawn sweep templeward, venerable oaks stand in its shadow, bright-headed flowers beckon along its walks. 'The sight bespeaks of God. Soul-absorbed in beauty, the viewer might well contemplate that here rises a new tradition in historical, tradition-conscious England. Nearby is the old—a sixteenth-century manor house, gracious and _ lovely restored residence for the temple president. The new London Temple points as sharply as its spire to the future—eternal family progress for millions long gone, and as many of the living of Britain and Europe as open their hearts to the newly proPage 802 claimed, though old message. The pure whiteness of the temple walls sharply contrasts with time-blackened, nation-revered monuments of glorified British history. Within those walls women, especially, are pleased with the grace and harmony of the decor. 'This is not a large building, only eightyfour feet wide, 159 feet long, spire rising almost 157 feet from ground to sky. Concrete and structural steel are faced with beautiful Portland limestone. Colors are subdued and restful, beige and _ soft greens predominating. Beautiful imported woods glisten in the fifty-eight finished rooms — teak and teak veneer from Burma, African avodire, and agba, warm-toned cherry. Italian-mosaic tiling in soft tones of rose and blue set off the dressing rooms delightfully. Furnishings designed by architect Edward O. Anderson especially for particular spots are elegantly simple. Many visitors were heard to re-. Mark that the baptismal font was lovely —and many others would agree. A glowing stainless stecl font rests on the backs of twelve bronzeantiqued oxen, separated into groups of three. Walls and floor are muted blue-green mosaic, except for one wall of glass windows through which the font may be seen from the main floor. Dominating the whole scene is a painting by Paul F'. Forster (the only painting in the temple) of the baptism of Jesus, a dramatic and moving presentation of text, Matthew 3:15: "Suffer it to be so now...." Much interest in the Church and A NEW SPIRE TOWARD HEAVEN Courtesy Deseret News THE LONDON TEMPLE its teachings has been stimulated by this unique religious edifice. 'The missionaries have found their ways into numerous homes and_ lives through questions asked by visitors about the temple and its purposes. 'They expect this to open a new flowering era of missionary work in Great Britain and surrounding areas. Kok KE OK Beginning Sunday, September 9, 1958, and continuing through Monday and Tuesday for two sessions a day, those assembled in the London 'Temple for the dedicatory services experienced a rich and rare outpouring of the Spirit. How could it be otherwise? 'There assembled were eight of the General Authorities of the Church: President David O. McKay; President Joseph Fielding Smith, and Elders Henry D. Moyle, Richard L. Evans, and Hugh B. Brown, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles; Elders ElRay L. Christiansen and Gordon B. Hinckley, Assistants to the Council of the Twelve; and Bishop 'Thorpe B. Isaacson, First Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric. Present also were Edward O. Anderson, temple architect, A. Hamer Reiser, former British Mission president, and assistant secretary to the First Presidency; Selvoy J. Boyer, President of the London 'Temple; President Clifton G. M. Kerr, of the British Mission, together with the other mission presidents then presiding in Europe. The sisters of the Church were well represented, as well, at this sacred occasion. 'There were the wonderful wives of the brethren just mentioned (except for Emma Ray McKay, wife of the beloved President, who remained home in compliance with doctor's wishes). In addition there were Jeanette Morrell, a sister of President McKay, with her daughter; Leah D. Widtsoe, wife of the late apostle, John A. Widtsoe (who for years presided over the European Mission); Jennie F. 'T. Richards, wife of Stayner Richards who, as British Mission President, began negotiations for the temple site; our own beloved Belle S. Spafford, General President of the Rehef Society of the Church; and Emily Bennett, First Counselor in the General Presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Scattered throughout the audience, of course, were other humble, dedicated sisters. IRST and foremost at the dedication itself, was the attendance of the Prophet of the Lord of his day, President David O. McKay. To sit in his presence, to look into his eyes, to listen to his power in counsel, instruction, and prayer, is, at any time, to feel through him communion with the Father. At the dedication many saints tasted of this experience for the first time. In six different sessions he preached six different sermons—each inspiring to its particular audience. 'The dedicatory prayer he offered twice a day for three days, each time with grandeur and fervor. Faces that recall the warmth of uninvited tears coursing down their cheeks, ears that still throb remembering the thunderous tones of "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" — testify of God's joy and approval of his house and servants. WR OK Ke HAT, then, might some future historian write on the books of his generation as he seeks to abridge the record of this occasion? From the lips of the "special witnesses of Christ" in attendance came much wisdom and advice. These fragments can only leave to the imagination how much more glorious the whole of what they spoke: President Joseph Fielding Smith: Only in the temple can the fulness be received.... Brothers and sisters, prepare yourselves by your faith and prayers to receive the blessings to be granted you. Elder Henry D. Moyle: 'The Lord has called no man to this work anywhere who does not have a desire in his heart to keep the gospel.... Human wisdom applies to human things, God's wisdom to divine. 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 A NEW SPIRE TOWARD HEAVEN Courtesy Deseret News GENERAL AUTHORITIES AT THE at the left Elder Richard L. President David O. McKay (center); 805 LONDON TEMPLE Evans of the Council of the 'I'welve; at the right, President Joseph Vielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve. Elder Richard L. Evans: Keep sweet and simple in your life, keep clean, keep faithful.. Prepare yourselves to come to the house of the Lord and accept these essential ordinances. Elder Hugh B. Brown: The doctrine of the immortality of the soul is basic to all that will be done in this temple, be cause in large measure it will have to do with "that other liv ing called the dead." Temple work brings the here and the hereafter very close together and makes the change which men "call death appear as it really is, a birth, a continuation of the eternity which is now. Elder EJRay L. Christiansen: If we receive the blessings of this 'Temple, we must first of all prepare ourselves to receive them. Hearts must be pure to enter here "here must be a process of sanctification on the part of each of u: How may we become pure in heart? By casting away hate and guile and rancor and il will and jealousy and anger and covetousness. Elder Gordon B. Hinckley: 'This building stands as a testimony of four great fundamentals of our doctrine: first, as an evidence of the faith of this people that God lives, a real personality, and that Jesus, his Son, is the Savior and Redeemer of mankind; second, as an evidence of a conviction that the soul is immortal; third, as an evidence of the assurance that the family is eternal; fourth, as an evidence of our faith that God is just and merciful, that he loves all of his children, and has provided a way whereby all may return to him. Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson: Dedicate your lives to the Lord, pray fervently for faith in Christ and m the a and for strength to live the gospel... We are never better than when we are on our knees. Courtesy Deseret News VISITORS GREETED BY PRESIDENT BOYER At the left: President of the London Temple, Selvoy J. Boyer; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, (center); at right: Mrs. Ruth Winston, Lord Mayor of Southgate, England, the city's first woman mayor. The dedicatory prayer in its greatness pleads for all peoples. Excerpts follow: On the occasion of the dedication of this, the fourteenth temple, may we first express overwhelming gratitude just/ to be alive in this great age of the world. We pause this morning to open our hearts to thee for this special privilege. No other time in world history has been so wonderful — no other age wherein thy secret powers have been more within human control; in no other era hath thy purposes been nearer human comprehension. Help us, O Lord, truly to live.... Thy mercy, thy wisdom, thy love are infinite; and in dispensations past thou hast pleaded, as thou dost now plead, through chosen and authoritatively appointed servants, for thy erring children to heed the gospel message and come to thee. Holy temples are a means of extending thy loving mercy to thy children even beyond the grave.... With humility and deep gratitude we acknowledge thy nearness, thy divine guidance and inspiration. Help us, we pray thee, to become even more susceptible in our spiritual response to thee.... We express gratitude for the right of free peoples to resort to the ballot, and for freedom to meet in legislative halls to consider problems and settle difficulties without fear or coercion of dictators, of secret police, or of slave camps. O Father, help people everywhere more clearly to realize that government exists for the protection of the individual, not the imdividual for the government. Millions... Are being influenced by false ideologies which are disturbing the peace of mind, and distorting the thinking 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 A NEW SPIRE TOWARD HEAVEN of honest men and women. O Lord, guide and protect thy messengers in their efforts to convince honest people in all lands and climes that Jesus Christ is "The way, the truth, and the life," and that "there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved...." Help all, O Father, to realize more keenly and sincerely than ever before that only by obedience to eternal principles and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ may loved ones who died without baptism be permitted the glorious privilege of entrance into thy kingdom.... If any with gloomy forebodings or heavy hearts enter, may they depart with their burdens lightened and their faith increased; if any have envy or bitterness in their hearts, may such feelings be replaced by self-searching and forgiveness. May all who come within these sacred walls feel a peaceful, hallowed influence. Cause, O Lord, that even people who pass. The grounds, or view the temple from afar, may lift their eyes from the groveling things of sordid life and look up to thee 807 and acknowledge thy providence.... We re-dedicate our lives to the establishment of the kingdom of God on earth for the peace of the world, and to thy glory forever.... We OK HK Yes, when the book is opened by which this generation may _ be judged, human mistakes cannot be excused for lack of warning and guidance from on high through ordained prophets. 'This occasion ranks with other glorious spiritual sessions wherein the members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints meet to renew themselves and hear further instruction. If only the spirit of the dedication of the London Temple may inspire a re-dedication of our lives to be diligent in the work, to keep our testimonies steadily aflame, to be doers of the word—thus to please the Lord! Photograph by Irvin T. Nelson MEMBERS OF THE NEW CHAPEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Hattic W. Beckingham, President; Sarah Palmer, Virst Counsclor; Doreen Kenwood; Joan Bennett (knecling) Macaleen, Secretary-T'reasurer.; Phyllis Tart, Second Counselor; Tllen The women are pictured gathering Ieaves from the trees and shrubs on the London Temple grounds. 'They have identified, named, and mounted forty varictics. Christmas Is Where the Heart Is Rosa Lee Lloyd soft leather flats and flopped down on the bed beside her roommate Marcia Sloan. "Whew!" she breathed. "Only two more days until Christmas. I leave for home tomorrow. I can hardly wait!" Marcia raised herself to her elbows, opened her brown eyes with their tentative twinkle, sizing her up. "Youre the silliest!" he said. "Here we are at State Hill College and all you do is brag about going home for Christmas. Why don't you grow up?" Kitsy's blue eyes deepened, sensitively, but she hung on to her smile. She couldn't Jet Marcia know she had hit her weak spot. Being grown-up seemed to be the most important thing to Marcia. You had to be emancipated, as she called it, and think for yourself. You couldn't mope around because you were homesick for your mother and your dad nor talk about how wonderful everything had been at home. That was strictly juvenile, according to Marcia, who was going on eighteen, a year older than Kitsy. "T like your new flats," Marcia said irrelevantly, sliding to the side of the bed and stepping into them. "Look, they just fit. I thought they'd be too smal] because you're such a little twerp." "Tm five feet two!' Kitsy defended herself. "And I'm one hundred and five pounds. Even my brother Bill says that's okay." "T guess it's just your attitude," Marcia said slowly, tipping her dark head sideways, sizing her up again. Page 8C8 Kot Hardwick kicked off her "You're the baby doll type. But you'll learn," she added, hopefully. "Give you another year here at State Hill and you'll be real fun for Christmas. Look at me. I have a date with Cliff Hyland. Howie | Grant will be with us, too, because they aren't going way up home to Montana for Christmas." Kitsy wondered how Marcia could possibly endure a Christmas like that. Then she remembered that Marcia's mother was away traveling. But Marcia never talked about it. She was too busy having fun. "Cliff has told me about turkey newberg at Harvey's Place," Marcia was saying. "Howie might get a job singing there Christmas Eve." "Howie has forgotten Christmas," Kitsy said flatly. Marcia's eves narrowed. "T don't know why he likes you so well, Kitsy," she said tightly. "But he does. You know that. That's why you try to whittle him down all the time." "He likes me?" Kitsy sat upnight. "All he can talk about is football. I tried to help him with his English I, and where did I get? He made fun of all the poets...." Marcia nodded. "I know," she conceded. "Howie is strictly commercial. 'That's because he has to earn his way through school." "He doesn't seem to have a heart," Kitsy said. "He's always clowning and pulling faces. I don't believe he ever really thinks about life and things, or even Christmas!" "Look who's talking big!" Marcia said. Her eyes were very bright as she walked to the door. "I'm going CHRISTMAS IS WHERE THE HEART lS down to dinner. Something sweet," went out. Kitsy lay back on the bed and turned her face to the wall. Hope they have she said as she HE couldn't live through Christmas if she and her brother Bill weren't going home to Orchardville. She had to be with her family in their big, two-story white frame house on Poppy Street. Closing her eyes, Kitsy pretended to sleep, even though it was nearly dinner time. Dinner, Mom and Dad would be having dinner in the dining room with the long French windows that opened out to the garden. Now the trees and bushes would be fluffy white with snow; even the big tall pine by the front porch would have drippy little ice crystals that would glimmer in the moonlight and in the sunlight, too. It was the prettiest tree on Poppy Street. They decorated it every Christmas with gaily colored lights clear up to the tiptop branches. Uncle Sid and Aunt Peg flew up from Los Angeles, because they thought Christmas at the Hardwicks was just perfect. Thinking of Aunt Peg made Kitsy feel warm inside. She was Mom's sister, five years younger, and she was very gay and cute, even if she was nearly forty. "We're one big family," Dad often said to them in his hearty way. "Our home is your home." Home, Kitsy whispered to herself, her throat pinching in. Home. It was the most beautiful word in the world, even if Marcia didn't seem to care about it or wouldn't talk about her parents. Kitsy's eyes went to the clock 809 as she swung her feet to the floor. She had to eat because she had skipped luncheon and had eaten a candy bar instead. The telephone rang sharply. At the sound of Bill's voice her heart quickened. It was good to have a brother here at school, even if he was pinned to Barbara Edwards, who acted as though she owned him. Sometimes Bill had a sort of upper-classman attitude toward her, but tonight his voice was different, solicitous and gentle, trying to tell her something without hurting her. Fear tightened her throat. 'Their father had just telephoned, Bill told her. Mom had been working too hard and she was so tired this morning that she couldn't get out of bed. Dad had called Dr. Wilkins. "A heart attack!" Kitsy moaned. "Oh, Bill, please say she's all right." "But she is," he went on. "It wasn't a heart attack, just tension and overwork getting ready for Christmas the way she does. Dr. Wilkins put a stop to it right off. He had Dad bring her up to the hospital here in Center City so she can have proper care and_ rest. They' ve closed the house up for awhile. Kitsy couldn't breathe. Her world was crumbling into little pieces. "Bill," she ~~ choked __brokenly, "please — take me to her." "Dad's on his way to pick you up," he said, consolingly. Then he added in his usual, big-brother way, "Now don't make a scene, Kit. Dad wants us to let Mom think that we like the idea of having Christmas here in Center City. He hada hard time getting her away from home. So it's up to us to convince 810 her it's a great idea. Meet dad out in front in ten minutes. Tl follow you to the hospital." Kitsy put the telephone back in its cradle with a little sob. Mom was sick. Her precious, lovely, queenly mother, who was the best hostess in Orchardville, taking care of others with ease and grace and never complaining that the big house was too much work, was suddenly unable to do it any more. Now the house was dark and locked up, and Christmas had disappeared like a song blown away on a frosty wind. Shouldering into her coat, Kitsy ran from the room. She was halfway down the stairs when she met Marcia. Brokenly she repeated what Bill had told her. "Dad will be waiting," she said, trying to edge past her. But Marcia stood resolutely in the middle of the stairway. "Now, listen," she said. Her eyes had steely little glints. "Don't go out to meet your Dad until you can smile. He needs you to make him feel okay about all this." Anger flared in Kitsy. What made Marcia think she knew so much about the way to handle parents? "Look who's talking! You don't know what it's like to love a home the way I do—or to have your mother so sick you can't have Christmas. So let me go, Marcia." Blinking her eyes, Marcia turned her head, but not before Kitsy had seen her lips tremble. "Oh, Marcia—I didn't mean...." Kitsy reached toward her. "You did!" Marcia moved so Kitsy could get by. The hospital room was very white and still and Mom looked rested and almost happy. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 "Isn't this ridiculous?" she laughed as she held Kitsy close. "I feel so well! But your father insists that I stay here." "He certainly does!" Dad laughed back. "She's going to take it easy from now on." "But what about Christmas?" Mom questioned anxiously, holding — to Kitsy's hands. ITSY swallowed hard, hoping her smile looked real and not like a dummy's grin. "We'll get along fine," she managed. "So please don't worry, Mom." "Peg and Sid will be leaving Callifornia in the morning," Mom went on. "Why don't you and Bill convince your Dad that the best thing for you all is to go home and have a real Christmas." Dad shook his head. "Without you, Kathryn? Oh, no. We're all staying here in Center City for Christmas. I can have dinner here with you, the nurse says. Peg and Sid will be with Kitsy and Bill. So don't worry, darling. Let someone else take the responsibility for a change." "But, Richard!" Mom protested weakly. "I want Christmas to be the way it's always been for us." Bill came in then and gave Mom a big kiss. "That's for you!" ning. A starchy white nurse followed him in. She gave Dad a telegram. They all watched excitedly as he opened it. His lips quirked the way they did when he was very amused. "Well—tell us!" Mom demanded. "Tt's a big surprise," he laughed. "Peg expects a baby any day now. They were planning to come here he said, grin- CHRISTMAS IS WHERE THE HEART IS hoping the baby might be born at our house around Christmas. But now, since they heard you were in the hospital, they'll stay home, of course." "A baby!" Mom said _ tearfully. "How wonderful. We could've had the baby for Christmas — if I hadn't been sick!" "Now, Kathryn," Dad soothed her. "I think it's high time Peg and Sid made a Christmas for themselves." "Yeah," Bill agreed. "Better late than never. Ill bet Uncle Sid is sitting on the moon." Kitsy felt sick all over as she kissed Mom gently, and tried desperately not to break down when she left the room with Dad and Bill. "T'm counting on you, Bill," Dad said. "See that your sister is taken care of on Christmas. I'll give you a check to cover meals at a nice place. Your gifts are at my hotel." His heavy dark brows drew together anxiously as he looked down at them. "We must let your mother think that this is fun for you both. That is her chief worry — that she is letting you down." Bill touched his shoulder. "Don't worry, Dad," he reassured him. "We'll be okay. Won't we, Kit? We'll have a big time. 'Tell Mom that." RIDING back to the dorm in his old car, Kitsy noticed Bill had slumped down in a sulky pout. "Tm in a spot," he said, avoiding her eyes. "Barbara wants me to go to Lakeridge to meet her folks now that I'm not going home for Christmas. After all, I am pinned to Barbara." Kitsy drew a long quivering 811 breath. Yes, Bill was pinned to Barbara; but did he have to go to her folks for Christmas, now, when she needed him so terribly? She turned her head, squeezing her eyes shut to hold the tears back, and watched the car lights on the slippery wet pavement. Bill was having a hard time steering. How would he ever take Barbara to Lakeridge in this shaking wreck? "You need a car, Bill," she said, impulsively. "Dad should give you his car and get a new one. I'll ask him for you." He gave her a quick glance. "Are you kidding?" he asked. "No — I'm not kidding," she answered. ""This old thing is dangerous. Dad hasn't noticed it. That's all." His eyes were puzzled. "Why should you ask him for me?" he demanded. "Because I want you to look respectable when you go to Barbara's folks for Christmas." There! She had said it in one breath. And she had been very grown-up about it, too. Even Marcia with all her wise talk couldn't have done any better than that. Bill was very quiet and his eyes were worried. Kitsy knew he wanted to keep his promise to Dad, too. He will have to work it out in his own way, she thought sadly. "Where will you have Christmas?" he asked, abruptly. "Oh, here and there." She forced a carefree laugh as Bill stopped the car in front of the dorm. "Maybe at Harvey's Place," she added as she got out. "Harvey's Place!" he gasped. "You can't go there. No sister of mine is going to spend Christmas like that. Where is your friend Marcia going?" "Any place where there's fun!" she answered. "But Christmas!" he exploded. "I won't let you." Kitsy spun around on her toes. "Pm on my own this Christmas, Bill," she said. "Is that so!" he muttered. "Don't forget you're just a little freshman up here." "Tl learn," she called back as she hurried up the pathway. Bill must not know how awful she felt, how deserted. She reached a dark corner of the big porch before she began to cry. HE lifted her head as the door opened. Marcia came out in her wool skirt and sweater. Kitsv could see her plainly in the shaft of light from the hallway. "Hal" she called. "That you, Kit?" Kitsy dabbed at her eves. She wouldn't let Marcia see her cry for a million dollars. Howie and Bart were lounging in big chairs in the living-room, but they unwound their long legs and got to their feet, lifting their hands greeting her. Howie took her coat. "Hello, Kitsy," he said, almost gently. "We thought you might be hungry. Even little frosh should eat now and then." Gazing up at him, Kitsy thought he looked like a gentleman in that white shirt and black tie. And his brown hair was newly clipped to a shiny stubble. He's really goodlooking. Why hadn't she noticed before that his cyes were a nice steady gray? "Tm starving!" she admitted. "We thought you would be," Marcia said. "So I asked Mrs. McBride if we could use the kitchen to fix you some dinner." Kitsy tried to smile. They all knew her trouble. Marcia must have told them. But they weren't going to mention it or notice that she had been crying. 'They knew better than that. They went out to the kitchen and. Howie pushed her into a chair. Then he draped a towel over his arm pretending to be a waiter. "Would Madame like ze hot dog in ze bun or on ze plate?" he questioned, striking a pose. "She'll take it fried," Bart said, pouring grease in a pan. "Boil it," Marcia ordered. "Fry these potatoes in that grease. And there's plenty of jello for all of us, with whipped cream." Sitting there at the kitchen table, Kitsy looked at each of them wonderingly. 'They were being good to her. She was sure they had planned to go to the party at the gym tonight. 'That was why Howie and Bart were dressed up. But, instead, they had stayed here to help her when she came from the hospital. She would always love them for this. "T like whipped cream," Howie said, smacking his lips. "I even like it on fruit cake and mince pie or Swedish short bread like my mother makes. Boy, can she cook and does she always spread it on for Christmas...." His voice trailed off, wistfully. N° one spoke. 'They all pretended to be very busy, eating. 'That was the first time Howie had ever sounded homesick. Kitsy looked at him sideways. He was looking at her. "Tt's like this," he said, leaning toward her. "My mother sent me 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 CHRISTMAS IS WHERE THE HEART IS a big fruit cake. 'That's my favorite. We can have it with whipped cream any time you say. We want you to have a good Christmas, Kit, with all the shiny things like stars and music." There was a big hot lump in her throat. Howie was trying to make her happy; it was in his eyes and his voice and his nice manners. He wasn't just someone who made fun of life and all the poets. He liked everything sacred about Christmas. He had been homesick, too, so he had acted crazy and cut-up all the time to hide his real feelings. So had Bart and Marcia. Kitsy hadn't realized before that all the other students had problems, too, Especially at Christmas. Howie and Bart had to work their way through school, and they couldn't afford to go home, but Marcia had it hardest of all because her parents would not be home. She never mentioned how heartsick she was. I've been selfish, Kitsy thought, as her heart reached out to them, wanting to do something wonderful for them. "Now, look," she said, in a catchy little voice as she got a brave idea. "Td like to fix a Christmas dinner for us all. Right here. If Mrs. McBride will let us." Howie dropped his spoon with a little clang. Bart took a long drink of water, and Marcia wet her lips before she answered. "We can ask her," she said. "This place is deserted on Christmas. | think she'll let us." "Sounds super!" Bart said. Howie had bent over to pick up 813 his spoon. When he raised his head his eyes were beaming. "T'll stuff a turkey!" Kitsy offered. "I've watched Mom do it for years. I know how!" "How many scoffed. Marcia's eyes met Kitsy's for a long, understanding moment. 'They both knew she was grown-up now, but, of course, you couldn't let boys know everything. They had to believe they were the greatest. "Guess what!" Howie stood up and pulled a long solemn face to hide how glad he was. "I've got an extra job for tomorrow singing at Gazett's 'Toyland. And Bart here is their Santa Claus. So we'll be rich. Now Christmas is for sure!" Christmas is for sure, Kitsy repeated to herself. She knew now that Christmas can never be lost. People might go away and situations change, but Christmas is always a shining, beautiful time of loving and giving and helping others to have fun, too. You have to hold on to Christmas and once you are sure of this, you never let go of it again. She smiled up at Howie. "Do me a favor?" she asked him. "Kitsy," he said, "You are now looking at a man who will get you the moon if you ask him for it." "A song will do," she answered. "For Mom. On Christmas Eve. I think she'd like that." years!" Howie "Sure," he said, his eyes crinkling. "It's a date. I'll be proud to do it, kit." Howie does have a heart, Kitsy thought, as her heart lifted and sang. He really does! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" CHRISTMAS AGAIN: Here comes Christmas again with all its delightful accompaniments and memories.... His is the day of love in every household, of peace on earth and good will to all mankind, and everyone who feels the importance of the sweet charity of the Savior should himself exercise that sweet spirit of sublime and heavenly grace which reflects as much upon the giver as upon the receiver,... Children should be taught to give in the spirit of love and sweetness, and then there would be greater pleasure and more satisfaction in small things.... This year, 1898, Christmas comes on the Sabbath day, and therefore festivities will be observed upon Saturday ot Monday.... —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN ALBERTA STAKE (CANADA): President Mary L. Woolf said there is a great mission for mothers.... She wished the sisters to be punctual and enjoy the spirit of God that will be given when in line with our duties. We should look after the poor and comfort those afflicted and downcast. We should also visit those who are coming in our midst and make them welcome. Desired to be energetic and fulfill the labors required of her.... Said, "Sisters, make an effort to attend your meetings, and the Lord will open up the way. Do not be backward in arising to bear your testimonies. It will strengthen you...." —Mary L. Ibey, Act. Sec. EIGHTY YEARS The years have crowned thee, dear, with glory, Though eighty snows have changed thy hair, From glossy dark to tinted whiteness— Thy face e'en now is grand and fair, And round thy life a halo lingers Like Indian summer's crimson hue, And purple fruitage rich with ripeness— Life's golden crown thus rests on you.... —Lydia D. Alder "MUSINGS AND MEMORIES": Musings and Memones (by Emmeline B. Wells) is a volume of poems entirely of home production, and is very suitable as a gift for the holiday. The book is sufficiently clegant in appearance for any drawing room or library table. It contains three hundred pages and includes a stcel engraving of the author, It is for sale at the office of the Woman's Exponent, $2. —Mrs. E. B. Wells Templeton Building We should always keep a corner of our minds open and free, that we may make room for the opinions of our friends. Let us have heart and mind hospitality. —Selected ADVERTISEMENT: "Swift as the Eagle," the Chicago Special and the Colorado Special, fast mail trains inaugurated by the North-Western and Union Pacific. These new trains are a triumph of modern railroading... Six magnificent coaches... Two splendid palace sleeping cars, dining cars, Page 814 IGHT women have been named to the Hall of Fame for great Americans at New York University, all of them pioneers or crusaders in their respective fields: Mary Lyon, educator; Maria Mitchell, astronomer; Emma Willard, educator; Harriet Beecher Stowe, author of Uncle Tom's Cabin; Frances E. Willard, temperance reformer; Charlotte Cushman, actress; Alice Freeman Palmer, educator; Susan B. Anthony, suffragist and reformer. R. SARA JORDAN, who at seventy-four begins her busy days at five o'clock in the morning, commenced the study of medicine at a few weeks under thirty-three and was a specialist in gastroenterology (stomach and intestinal disorders) ready to practice as the third member of the beginning Lahey Clinic when thirty-nine. Except for her first year, she worked her way through medical school, also supporting a daughter. She became the only female president of the American Gastroenterological Association, and she now heads a staff of ten doctors in her field at Boston's vastly expanded Lahey Clinic. Dr. Jordan says that nobody should smoke cigarettes. But smoking with an ulcer is like pouring gasoline on a burning house. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ARGARET MEAD and MINA REES are two members of the Board of Directors of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. They are on the board with ten men. On the editorial staff of the magazine Science (now combined with Scientific Monthly) there are nine women. ME. GENEAL J. CONDON, of Salt Lake City, Utah, has attained an international reputation and won a gold medal at the International Flower Show at the New York Coliseum, for her method of preserving flowers indefinitely by using sand from the shores of the Great Salt Lake. [YY BAKER PRIEST'S autobiogtaphy Green Grows Ivy has tecently been published by McGrawHill Book Company. It is the story of the girl born in a Utah mining camp who became Treasurer of the United States. Mrs. Priest relates her experiences as telephone operator, saleswoman, model, housewife, mother, civic worker, and Government official. 'The book is filled with the pervading influence of a deep and lasting love in family relationships, particularly emphasizing the role of Mrs. Priest's mother, Clara Fearnley Baker, in her daughter's lifetime happiness and success. Page 815 TORIAL c~© VOL. 45 DECEMBER 1958 NO. 12 She 128th Semi-Annual Church Conference HE 128th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the historic 'Tabernacle on 'Temple Square, Salt Lake City, Utah, October 10, 11, and 12, with our beloved President David O. McKay conducting all six sessions and the Priesthood meeting. 'Iwo of the General Authorities were absent. Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve was touring the South African Mission, and Elder ElRay L. Christiansen, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, was visiting the European Missions. Four hundred Singing Mothers, from twenty-two stakes in Southern California, who had sung for the Relief Society Conference, under the direction of Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society, presented music for the Friday and Saturday sessions of General Conference, and on Sunday, the Tabernacle Choir, under the direction of Richard P. Condie, provided the music. Two new General Authorities were sustained as Assistants to the Council of the Twelve: Elder William J. Critchlow, former President of South Ogden Stake; and Elder Alvin R. Dyer, former President of the Central States Mission, and appointed in August 1958 as First Assistant in the General Superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association. The assurance, comfort, and inspiration that result from conscienPage 816 tious adherence to the principles of the restored gospel were expressed as a theme by the speakers at the conference sessions. President David O. McKay, addressing the conference on Sunday morning, spoke of the duties and responsibilities of lay members of the Church in defending the gospel and exemplifying its principles in everyday living. I have in mind and in my heart the feeling that the religious influence, sincere religious influence in the heart, or the life of the individual, is the most refining influence in the world.... God wants us here. His plan of tedemption so far as we are concerned, is here, and we, my fellow workers in the Church of Christ, are carrying the responsibility of testifying to the world that God's truth has been revealed; that men and women can live in this world, free and uncontaminated from the sins thereof, following as nearly as humanly possible, Jesus.... Then the testimony of Jesus abides in the soul, and strength comes to each individual to withstand the evils of the world. President Stephen L_ Richards ascribed the perilous condition of the world as being largely due to ignorance of gospel principles and the lack of Christian attitudes and behavior on the part of individuals. He spoke of the light that should "break forth among them that sit in darkness." That light, my brethren and sisters, has come to the world. It is the light of revelation, and through revelations has come the true interpretation of the EDITORIAL Christ, his mission, and his gospel. All men of al] nations embraced within the family of the Eternal Father are entitled by his decree to receive the light and to receive an understanding of the true, revealed order of the kingdom of God.... The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, established under the direction of the Father and the Son, is the custodian of the revealed principles of the Restored Gospel and the authority to administer its ordinances under divine commission. Speaking of prayer as "the royal road between each of us and our Heavenly Father," President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Discussed the universal need for prayer. I think there is no common denominator for all the peoples of the world that can equal the desire to pray and the resulting prayers.... Brethren and sisters, let us continue to be a praying people. Let us pray, keeping in mind some of the great principles involved therein. Let us go to our Heavenly Father for his advice, his counsel, his help. He will always answer if we are righteous in our asking, and if we are asking for righteous things that would be for our good and benefit. 817 The great foundation in one way of this Church is the doctrine of continuous revelation, continuous revelation to the individual, to the leaders of the Church, all for our good and benefit and for the advancement of his work.. In giving a final blessing to the saints assembled in the Tabernacle and to the saints all over the world, President McKay spoke of his appreciation for the General Authorities and the devotion of all of them and their families to the Church. "God bless Zion, the pure in heart," he said. God bless our friends with whom we associate, who are contributing, too, to the advancement of this great Church. We appreciate their fellowship. God bless those who speak evil against us because they do not know us, and give us charity in our hearts for them, and may He enlighten their minds and open the vision of their souls that they may see Christ's Church as it is and that for which it stands. Hasten the coming of our Lord, when peace shall reign and the kingdom of God be established, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. —V. P. C. > No Lack of Miracle Maude Rubin Here everything is green—the waves, the grass— Green sickles move on eucalyptus trees Cutting the heavy fragrance. Palm trees mass These sun-baked western hills. No need to freeze Red mittened fingers gathering boughs; long-lost That morning sparkle of the fern-leafed frost. Oh, lovelier than greenness, time propels My thoughts on slender tracks of silver sound; The smell of pine and spice and fruity cakes; The mystery of Christmas-coming-round, Instead of all this growingness that makes The winter into spring. Oh, may they feel No lack of miracle, of holy light, These bright-eved children, when at last they kneel To pray for blessings on this sacred night. And teach my truant thoughts to stop and 'know That little Jesus never played in snow. Yourself NO, THANK YOU! OW should you answer the person who invites you to "take a cigarette" or "have a drink" — or do anything which is against your conscience or contrary to the teachings of your Heavenly Father? What should you say? How much do you need to explain or apologize? When, if ever, should you compromise just a little for the sake of appearances? The answer is easy. Just say "No—no, thank you." Don't waver. Don't Page 818 BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF 819 worry about how others may think or act. Be your own natural, honest self. Everyone admires sincerity. If the invitation to indulge in something you don't believe in comes from a host or hostess while vou are a guest, your answer will come even easier. 'The obligation of courtesy is not that of the guest but of the host. The gracious host will never press you, never question your right to be yourself in matters of conscience. He will admire you for your forthright stand. It's natural to want to be liked by the crowd. But compromising with principles is always wrong, often dangerous. What is right? What is wrong? Fortunately, there are ways for members of the Church to recognize right from wrong. Read the Scriptures; listen to the teachings of your Church leaders. And listen, also, to the whisperings of that "still, small voice.'"" When it whispers: "It's wrong; don't do it!" — say firmly, honestly, finally: "No, thank you — no!" BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF > <r Christmas Seal Sale — 1958 Dorothea M. Lindsey Associate, Public Relations REAT strides have been made toward the conquest of tuberculosis. Since the first Christmas Seal was sold, an estimated eight millon people have lived who would have died if the TTB death rate had remained at its 1906 level. But the saving of lives is not enough. The story of TB today is the story of 250,000 Americans suffering from active tuberculosis. It is the story of 1,750,000 Americans with inactive TB who risk relapse unless their health is maintained at a high level. It is the story of some go, ocoo Americans now healthy who will be struck down by TB in the coming year. Whether or not you are among the millions fighting a personal battle against 'I'B, you will share in the tremendous cost. 'The annual cost of TB has increased more than $100,000,000 since 1952 to a total of more than $725,000,000. Most of this comes out of the taxpayer's pocket. Christmas Seal funds contributed by the people to the 3,000 voluntary tuberculosis associations throughout the United States are spent primarily to prevent the spread of TB through health education, through case finding, through rehabilitation, and through medical rescarch. 'Deck the Halls Helen Spencer Williams ToODay the beloved old carol 'Deck the Halls With Boughs of Holly," takes on a new theme and a new look. Christmas decorations by Florence Williams combine all the wonderful modern ideas, materials, and colors, with the precious old traditions of the Christmas season to make this year the most unique one we have ever had. The only essentials that versatile and creative Florence insists on, are that Christmas trimmings must be gay, heartwarming, and, above all, beautiful, and that we should all know the joy of making them with our own hands. She believes that each year something new should be added, that we should not stand still and alw ays look back, but that we should establish a few new traditions of our own each year, using the many new things and materials that are being made available to us in this wonderful modern day, seeking for anything and_ everything lovely and praiseworthy and of good report. Her tables are piled high with materials to make a few type of Christmas balls for tree trimming. There are Christmas tree balls of every color combination imaginable, balls that you and I can make with scraps of velvet and nbbon and with bits of gold and silver trimming, braid, old jewelry, and fancy pins and odd earrings. So now is the time to get out the old button box, scrap bag, and jewelry case. Perhaps the only outlay of money for the creating of these tree ornaments will be in the purchase of styrofoam balls of all sizes at the five Page 820 and dime, florist, or display stores, some tinsel ribbon, narrow baby ribbon, some pearl 'and gold beads, straight pins, and good sharp scissors. 'The florist tinsel and narrow baby ribbon can be purchased in fifty yard bolts which is the least expensive way to buy them. It might be well to begin with a large size ball, at first, until you get the knack of making one. The small balls are a bit more difficult to handle. First, cut your velvet in bias oneinch strips. Florence warns that these should be marked first in pencil so that they will be cut true and even, as the covering of these balls of styrofoam with the velvet is the basis of making these ornaments beautiful and professional looking. Stretch the bias strips of velvet as tightly as possible in pie-shaped sections, criss-cross, until the ball is entirely covered. Secure each section firmly with a pin at the top and bottom of the ball, but be sure to hold the material taut as you pin. After the ball is completely covered with the velvet, cover the raw edges with the narrow baby nbbon. Then the fun of decorating the balls begins. 'The colors and combinations of trimmings are yours for the choosing. On one ball Florence used bright green velvet cut from an old discarded party dress. Next she covered the raw edges with green baby ribbon, then stretched strips of lacy gold, inch-wide tinsel purchased from a florist; next she placed tiny, bright red silk braid and black rattail braid alternately to make the "DECK THE HALLS" h < Hal Rumel 821 7 - ee ge: * ' VELVET AND RIBBON BALLS DECORATE A CHRISTMAS TREE Arrangement by Florence C. Williams ball look exotic. The pins at the top and bottom which hold the velvet ribbon and trim were covered with a gold ornament made of a fancy button and beads. A loop of gold thread was slipped under the last loop of ribbon and trim, and a Christmas ornament hook was added to hang the ball on the tree. Florence has made over a hundred of these balls. And what a glorious array of color combinations she has used in the making! One is of white velvet with gold braid and tinsel ribbon, with pearls and gold beads stuck here and there onto the ball. The top and bottom are adorned with an ornament made of an earring of pearls. Another one is made of shades of red with silver 822 trimming; a blue and pink one, with gold braid trimming, gold rosettes of tinsel at the top and bottom; still another one in shades of pale green and pink; a silver and purple one with an amethyst trim. Each one is a work of art and originality — each different and so lovely that it would be difficult to choose which is most beautiful. This year Florence will trim her tree with these new kinds of decotations and give many of them as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 gifts. She may use small ones as table decorations or place cards. Yes, this year Florence will not only deck her halls with boughs of holly, but she will add a new tradition that is different and beautiful, something that she and you and I will find joy in the making, in the giving, and the using, something different which will make this Christmas season especially gay and warm, beautiful, different, and festive. ——> Grannies Ethel Jacobson Grannies have sort Of a restful look. They smell like the violets By the brook, And their skirts kind of rustle When they pass Like the breeze that whispers Through meadow grass. Grannies know stories Of long ago. They can hum old hymns So soft and low, And their laps are always A just-right size For a small tired child With dream-filled eyes. Te Christmas Card Tree for Your WVindow Sylvia Pezoldt NEW way to display your Christmas cards which will keep them unA blemished is by a "mbbon tree' in the window. It will also do to fill in a wall space and is especially handsome fastened to a mirror, the long narrow kind is just tight. Long narrow windows or door sidelight or a wall panel between doors or windows display the cards well. If you receive many cards, matching ribbon trees can be arranged in pairs, as on both sides of a fireplace or of a door. Use half-inch dark green ribbon. The firm, plastic kind, sold for gift wrappings, stands the strain and light-fading well. To carry out the illusion of a green tree, start at the top of the space and in the center fasten the end of the ribbon with rubber cement, glue, or masking tape. None of these will mar the surface, but a thumbtack or sharp pin insures security for the added weight of the cards. Drape the nbbon back and forth to form a tree outline, narrow at the top, but widening until it fills the space at the bottom. Finish in the middle at the bottom with loops to make a "trunk." Later a long, shim card will arrive which will seem to be made to fill this space, but the loops will add a decorative touch anyway. A small Christmas ornament can be hung at the far end of each loop, if desired. Use pin card-holders, the kind which have a slot to hold the card and a sharp prong for hanging it to display. 'They can be purchased at most stationery stores for a small amount per dozen or ten cent stores sell them for about a penny each. As your cards arrive, slip on one of the pins and hook it to the mbbon. At first you may wish to put one in each loop, but as your card mail increases, they will need to be pushed closer. In a window or mirror, turn some back to back so that both you and the passers-by can enjoy the gay designs. After the cards are taken down, the pins can be removed and kept for another year, the cards unmarred, ready for anything you wish to do with them. > Seacher of Mlusic Elsie McKinnon Strachan Those qualities are yours which let him know That melodies ate written in the willow, That chapel chimes ring out in falling snow, That butterflies are bright notes dressed in yellow. Who else finds red-winged cadences to share, And who sees maples dancing the mazurka, Or hears Chopin break thunder in still air, Or likens wind-tossed shadows to the polka; Who else, but you, cloaks finger scales in fun— And works a charm on my reluctant son? Q92 Page 82 You Can Sew a xX— Other &dge Finishes Jean R. Jennings THE preceding lesson dealt with a fitted facing as an edge finish. However, in the progress of sewing there are times when a facing is not a satisfactory finish because of either the dress style or the type of material being used. In these instances some other edge finish is needed. Binding is one of the most popular and practical methods of finishing edges. A binding, usually made from a bias strip of material, strengthens and decorates an edge. Since a binding is carried over a raw edge, it shows equally on both sides and differs fundamentally from a facing which is not seen on the right side. Bindings are more suitable than facings for edges of transparent fabric. Bound edges can be used instead of facings in places where two layers of fabric would be too heavy. The width of a binding is determined partly by the texture of the cloth. On transparent fabrics and dainty small garments it should be very narrow, even as small as oneeighth-inch. On firm fabrics, bindings may be one inch or even wider. The method of applying bindings should be suited to their width, the fabric, and the shape of the edge being bound. A single laver of cloth is usual for firm fabrics, but a folded bias strip, called a double or French binding, is better on sheers and light weight, slippery materials. The success of good binding depends first on obtaining the true bias grain of the material, evenly cut strips, and proper joinings. As the true bias grain is the diagonal of both lengthwise and crosswise grain, bring the straight crosswise CUTTING AND JOINING BIAS STRIPS LENGTHWISE ASIMSSOWD Page 824 MALS, 4 Bo ya <Z CLASS ®> SEAM Figure 1 \ LE SINGLE BIAS Figure 2 edge parallel with the lengthwise edge. The diagonal fold thus formed is the true bias. Press the fold lightly and cut. 'To insure even edges and strips of even widths always measure accurately with a ruler or gauge. Bias strips are always joined on the straight grain of the goods. In joining strips lay the two diagonal ends together, right sides together, having the edges match at the point where the seam starts. (See Figure 1.) Stitch and press seams open. The width of the bias strips from which the binding is made will be six times as wide as the desired finished width of the binding for the French fold type, used on sheer fabric. For the regular bias binding, cut the strip four times the desired finished width. To make the French fold binding, fold the bias strip double, right side out, and baste or press lightly. Baste in place to the nght side of the fabric with all raw edges together. Stretch the binding slightly on inward curves and ease it on outward curves. *Stitch in place with a seam allowance that is one-third the width of the bias fold. Before turning the binding down, press along the line of stitching. Turn the binding over the raw edges to the wrong side and bring DOUBLE BIAS Figure 3 the fold to the line of stitching. Blind hem in place, catching hand stitches into the machine stitches already in place. In applying the single binding, the seam allowance is just one-fourth the width of the strip. After the first stitching, the loose raw edge is folded over just to meet the other raw edge of the bias. The fold thus formed is brought down and blind hemmed against the machine stitching. After the binding is finished, press lightly on the wrong side. Avoid pressing bias edge finishes too flat. To apply wide bindings to sharply curved edges requires skill and great care. Special pains must be taken in shaping the bias which must be shrunk on some edges in fabrics that are not soft and very flexible. Narrow bindings are much simpler than wide ones and can be applied to shaped edges much more easily. Corded edges are not as commonly used, but are very attractive and give an especially rich look to the garment when used. To make a corded edge finish, begin with a bias strip the same as for binding. 1. Stitch cable cord or heavy string of the desired thickness into one edge of YOU CAN SEW — X — OTHER EDGE F! NISHES 825 the bias strip, using the cording presser foot. The seam allowance below the cord should be at least five-eighths inch. 2. Pin and stitch the cording to the garment with the wider allowance uppermost. 3. Trim the garment seam allowance and the under layer of the bias strip to one-fourth inch or less. 4. Turn under the edge of the upper Javer of the bias one-eighth inch and edge stitch. 5. Turn bias down and tack lightly in place. For a piped edge use the same method as for cording. A piping differs from a cording only in having no cord in the folded edge. Both pipings and cordings are often made in contrasting materials to add a color accent. Cording and piping also add a decorative effect when set in seams. At waistlines, at the top of ruffles, around cuffs and collars, and used to outline yokes. -—<—oWho Can Know She Stars? Maude O. Cook Who can know the secret of the stars, That nightly shine in splendor in the sky? In patterned rhythm, Mars and Venus move, And galaxies majestically glide by. If we could know the meaning of these orbs, And read the secret locked in their embrace, We would see God in dignity and power, Moving in wonder-workings throughout space. > New Serial "She Silver Leash to Begin in January new serial "The Silver Leash," by Beatrice R. Parsons, will begin in the January issue of the Magazine. Readers of the new serial will find vivid characters, mystery, and suspense in a story of changing loyalties. 'The story relates the complex problems confronting LaRue Harding when she visits her sister's family in Fivelakes, Arizona, and how she finally learns that service and sacrifice can make life beautiful. The author, Mrs. Parsons, has written many excellent stories for the Magazine, and her serial "Uncertain Possession," appeared in the Magazine IN 1952. 826 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 "Not to the Swift" Deonce R. Sutherland Cuapter 6 (Conclusion) Synopsis: Julie Markham, who lived with her widowed mother in Chicago and studied music, became engaged to Professor Craig Carlson, a teacher in the school. Julie's mother wanted her to have a career, but Julie and Craig went West for their temple marriage and Craig accepted a position teaching in a small college. Their son was born in April, and Julie was so busy and happy that she almost forget her music. However, she sang for stake conferences and for school programs. She was lonesome for her mother, whom she had not seen since her marriage, and finally Mrs. Markham telephoned to say she was coming for a visit. RAIG and Julie and_ baby C Ralph waited patiently for Mary Markham's plane. The plane was late, and Ralph was beginning to get tired. They didn't want to go home because each delay they had been assured it would be but twenty minutes more. The winter weather, Julie supposed. At last the plane was announced, and Julie and Craig hurried to the fence. Julie's mother looked very smart in her dark suit and red scarf beneath the fur coat over her shoulders. Julie wondered if she looked as dowdy as she felt beside her mother. "Julie, you don't look well enough to be expecting again. Do you think it's wise so soon?" Julie's mother couldn't keep back her fear. Ralph had begun to fuss, and Craig was trying to get him comfortable in his arms and carry a bag at the same time as they walked to the car. They had had to stand in line for her mother's two bags, and this last delay was too much for the baby. "Craig and I want a large family," Julie said. Oh, dear, she sounded too grim for words, Julie thought to herself. Maybe in the car Ralph would go to sleep. Mother would see tomorrow what an angel he really was. When they reached home, things seemed to go a little better, though Ralph woke up and cried. He feels how nervous I am, Julie thought, and he's reflecting how I feel. "T'll have to quit worrying about making things go right," Julie said to Craig later. "Everything goes wrong when I do." Mary admired the house and walked out briefly in the snow to look at the big yard. "Craig and I are really going to get busy on the yard next summer," Julie said. "It seems to me you'll have more than enough to do next summer," her mother said drily. Craig bought an extra ticket to the symphony concert, and Mary agreed that the music was exceptional. She enjoyed driving about and seeing the new beautiful chapels. Craig and Julie wanted to drive her the three or four hundred miles to visit her husband's relatives, but she refused. The weather was bad, and she felt the trip would be uncomfortable for Julie. Julie had almost given up hoping that Ralph would get acquainted with his Grandmother Markham. Craig's mother had just to call from Page 827 the doorway, and Ralph would tumble over himself in delight to see her. "It's simply that Ralph has seen so much of Mother," Craig assured Julie. "Leave your mother alone with the baby. 'They'll soon get acquainted." "I can't do that," Julie protested. "Mother has but a few days more." But Craig insisted Julie go with him to spend an evening with some other faculty members, and Mary agreed to stay with the baby. Jule insisted they come home early. Everything had gone very smoothly. Ralph was being quietly rocked to sleep by his grandmother when they came in the house. "Fe's a very good, sweet baby," Mary told them earnestly. Craig took Mary to the campus, and she spent the morning looking about the college and the town. "T met a very nice man named Mr. Stuart who is the registrar," Mary remarked later to Julie. "Even though it's winter one can see that the campus is very pleasant." The last two days of Mary's visit, she spent staying in the house looking out the windows or rocking Ralph. "She must think this is the dullest place she ever saw," Julie said to Craig after they were in bed. "I really hate to see her go back to Chicago, but I guess she prefers it infinitely to Bradley." "She seems very attached to Ralph," Craig said, trying to comfort Julie. They waited dispiritedly with Mary for her plane at the airport. "You'll come next summer, Mother, won't you? Everything is so lovely here in the summer." "Tl try," Mary assured them, and then the rush for departure began. Craig and Julie drove slowly home. 'They had hoped to encourage Mary to move West to be near them, but they felt they had not succeeded. Yet it was sad to think of her going back to Chicago alone. Ale ale ate ale OBERT Markham Carlson was born in the middle of a blustery cold March. "How can the miracle seem even greater the second time?" Julie wondered happily to Craig as they bathed him together in the first few weeks that he was home. It was more difficult for Julie to get out with the two children, but as summer brought mild warm weather she began to go to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. One ev ening at a neighboring ward Craig sang "In My Father's House" with piano and violin accompaniment. Julie felt the tears wet against her eyelashes as she held Ralph on her lap. Tiny Bobby lay asleep in his car bed in front of the bench beside her. Craig had a great gift and he shared it freely. Was she really beginning to understand that people could contribute all of their talents or abilities no matter where they were? In her heart, now, she knew that. If only her mother could find this peace also. Really learning to love people was the answer to a full and complete life, and it began in the home with a husband like Craig and children like theirs. Craig taught summer school again, so the work in the yard progressed slowly. Julie took the children in the yard with her, the baby in his bed and Ralph toddling about. She worked slowly on the flower beds. They had drawn plans of the 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 "NOT TO THE SWIFT" yard, but in the end had returned to the original old-fashioned general outlines for the flower beds. Julie turned the rich black earth slowly around the new shrubs and flowers. She would have liked to water in the afternoon, but so would little Ralph, so Julie kept peace by waiting until he was in bed for the night. He was dragging his little shovel about the yard, now stooping to inspect a blade of grass, now putting on a burst of speed that sent him rolling happily on the grass. "Julie, I can do that." It was Craig home early. She hadn't heard his car. "I parked in front. I thought you might like to go for a drive when it's cooler." Craig kissed them all soundly and sat down on the grass while Ralph climbed over his shoulders and landed in a heap on his lap. "Say, Julie, I ran into the registrar, you know, Mr. Stuart, and he said he'd written to your mother. What would he have been writing to your mother about? I was already late to a class, and someone else came up right then so I didn't get a chance to ask him anymore." Julie lifted the baby out and held him up to inspect the garden. "I don't know. I can't think that Mother would be interested in going back to school. She hasn't mentioned anything in her letters about him. I guess it couldn't be anything very important or she'd have said something." "Why don't you ask her next time you write?" Craig said, holding onto Ralph's legs. "Come on, boy, let's go get cleaned up and help Mama with the dinner." "Pm going to write anyway, Julie said, following with Bobby. "I was hoping so that Mother would " 829 come this summer. I wish she could meet Bobby. Mr. 'Thayer must owe Mother a half dozen vacations." ULIE'S mother wrote that she was coming the first of September. Julie went into the living room and curled up in the most comfortable chair. She read the letter again. What would Julie think if her mother took a job in Bradley permanently? She had written Mr. Stuart about openings in his office, and he had given her a lead. On consideration of her recommendations and qualifications, she had been offered the job as assistant registrar. She planned to get a small apartment close to the campus. Mr. Thayer had been very nice about everything, and she had agreed to break in her elated assistant for her job. The letter ended, "Would you and Craig mind my being so near?" Julie tried to catch her breath. The letter seemed too good to be true. She would write her mother immediately. No, she would call her tonight. Surely the budget could stand one call on this wonderful occasion. Mw Ke KR Kk K CRAIG and Julie helped her mother get settled in her new apartment. It wasn't until her mother had begun her new job and was quite settled that Julie mentioned how she had surprised her. "I thought you didn't like Bradley at all. I thought that visit with us had spoiled our chances for ever getting you to move here permanently." Mary Markham looked at Julic in surprise. "Why, Julie, I loved having a chance to catch my breath. I kept remembering how peaceful and quiet the snow was outside your big window when I was sitting in 830 your living room one day rocking Ralph. I looked down at him, and I found myself wondering what life was all about. What was I doing living off in Chicago when my heart was with all of you. Yes, I was very depressed at leaving, and I was worse when I got back there. As soon as I was able to make my decision, life began | to have real meaning for me again.' Julie kissed her mother's cheek. That night after dinner when her mother had gone home, Julie sat on the edge of the bathtub watching Craig brush his teeth. "Everything has turned out so well, Craig; do you think Mother will always be happy out here? Do you think she'll ever regret moving West? Id hate to feel responsible...." Julie yawned. It had been a long day. "Time will tell." Craig rinsed his toothbrush. "We'll have to wait and see, I guess." RAIG mentioned the Messiah a few days later to Julie. "But it seems so early to talk about the Messiah," Julie said. "No, you don't understand. 'This is a special big event. It's one of the most beautifully finished music productions out here. 'The music department head wants you to try out for the soprano. They have professional singers or singers of professional caliber sing all the major roles. I want you seriously to consider doing it." Craig kissed the back of her neck. "The children during the rehearsal time will be well taken care of by two grandmothers and the proudest father in the world. I want you to try for the role before the committee which selects the soloists. I'll drive you down and do the accompaniment." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 "T've studied it, of course, but it's been so long ago. I'd have to practice. I'd never get the role, but I believe I would like to do the tryout. What music will I need?" "It's in my brief case. I brought it home today." Julie hadn't known how much she really wanted to sing the role until. It became hers. She went down to the music building and _ practiced with Craig. How little she had understood and felt this most famous of all Handel's oratorios before. Had she really grown up in this respect also? Craig and Julie had family prayer before each of the final rehearsals and before the first of the two performances. As Julie took her place with the other soloists she began to pray in her heart again. She had prepared herself for this role as completely and adequately as it had been possible. Now she placed herself in her Heavenly Father's hands. The first two parts passed as in a dream. 'There was no sound in the great hall. She had a feeling that for this moment she had been preparing all her life. 'This was why she had been blessed with her voice. "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth...." She sang not only with certainty of talent and preparation, but also with the certainty of knowledge in this greatest message of all. Julie's mother wept when she found Julie after the performance. "Julie, I almost failed you. All the time it was in this place that your talent was to come to fruition. How could your own mother have been so blind?" But Julie refused to let her mother say more. She no longer needed "NOT TO THE SWIFT" praise from others to tell her how she had sung. She knew she had done far better than her talents alone could have carried her. After the last performance, which was held on the following day, she and Craig returned to a quiet house. She put some of the bouquets of flowers that had been sent to her about the house in vases. Craig wrestled with Ralph on the living Julie rocked the baby room floor. 831 and chuckled over the great grunts and groans that Craig made with Ralph astride his chest. Craig's eyes met hers for a moment. Then he said lightly, "Is it an antichmax to be home, Julie, and have it all over?" "No," Jule said trying to hide how deeply she felt, "I w ould be no other place." (The End) Rachel Ann Giles Specializes in Chine Cut-work Embroidery ACHEL Ann Giles of Heber City, Utah, now cighty-five years old, has loved her needle and thread hobbies ever since her childhood days when she cut and stitched doll clothes while herding cows on her father's ranch. Later, she learned to make quilt blocks and her quilting was famous throughout the valley. As a seamstress, she acquired the exacting arts of cutting, fitting, and expert finishing. Her greatest delight is her beautiful cut-work embroidery which has decorated hundreds of pillowslips and tablecloths and dresser sets. She has won many blue ribbons at the Wasatch County Fair and at the Utah State Fair. At the age of cighty-one she was awarded the grand championship mbbon at the Wasatch County Fair for her individual display. Since young womanhood Mrs. Giles has been a devoted Relief Society worker, acting In many capacities, including visiting teaching and for nine years as a ward president. She has eight children (including two foster children), twenty grandchildren, and thirtytwo grcat-grandchildren. Quick Little Gifts for Girls Clara Laster pe VERY girl loves a handmade gift, and many of us have the desire to create something really beautiful for our daughters and their friends. Here's how to add glitter and a personal touch that will delight the hearts of girls the world over. — Q = [Qe 90900 > ) 0 of a oo ~ Q eo © C— \9 _ F0 fo? °Os ~"o JEWELED Comes AnD Brusi Buy a plain comb and brush set from any five and dime store. Choose any color you wish, but clear or pink make the most expensive looking sets. Purchase a tube of jewelry glue from a hobby shop. Buy, also, large imitation diamonds and other colored stones that you might like. In order to give these a setting, purchase the small rings of beads to place around the stones. 'They are already made in this manner and cost about ten cents for three. If you wish, buy several small oblong stones and a package of pearls. When you have all your materials, arrange the stones on the comb and brush in an attractive pattern. When you decide on one, take away one stone at the time and squeeze a bit of glue on the brush, in position required, place stone on glue. Continue in this manner until comb and brush are beautifully decorated. Drying time is only a matter of minutes. Page 832 eID,, e YW) Hf, | Ee U Merce GiLpED WICKER BASKET Place a personal gift of undergarments in a gilded wicker basket, trimmed with dainty flowers. The basket can be used the vear round. It can be purchased in drugstores, dime stores, and some grocery stores. 'The gold paint can be bought at paint and dime stores. For best results, buy the spray kind. When the basket is sprayed and dried, tie a cluster of flowers at the center, on the outside. Baskets can be sprayed in colors or with silver paint. Either way, they are truly lovely. Jewetep Borttes ror Batu Sats Old, empty bottles can take on a world of personality when filled with colored QUICK LITTLE GIFTS FOR GIRLS 833 bath salts and jeweled with diamonds of cut glass, rubies, and other artificial glass stones. Most bottles will serve the purpose, but empty bottles with a large neck, work perfectly. When bottles are finished, trim them in gold or silver rickrack, 'This can be secured with jewelry glue. The finished product is most effective. Large, round glasses may be used in this manner also, They are extremely lovely when filled with wrapped candy and tied with a seasonal bow. Frr1t Grove Horprrs Use any color felt. Cut out with pinking scissors, a picce of felt twelve inches by fourteen inches. Fold in middle. Place gold rickrack around the pinked edge. On the top side, place a small glove cut from a piece of different colored felt. 'This can be decorated with sequins to add a sparkling touch. Me oe OK Making gifts can be lots of fun when the cost is reasonable and the appreciation is high. Try these suggestions and gain much pleasure on Christmas morning. Win ter Mo mn ing Sylvia Probst Young White-coated hills are tall against the sky, Touched by the rising sun's pale yellow light; The shrubs and apple tree are bridal gowned— How steadily the snow came down last mght. The breakfast kettle bubbles while I stand Beside the window; out across the snow My eyes have sought the garden corner where In summer days I watched the roses grow; Nostalgically I yearn for days of June— And then the happy whistle of a boy, He bounds into the room. Is breakfast done? I turn from reverie with sudden joy— Here in this warmth the winter has no part, A boy will keep the summer in my heart. Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Maude H. Ludlow PALMYRA STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "SHAKESPEARE IN OUR LIVES" AT CLOSING SOCIAL, June 4, 1958 Front row, seated, left to right: Lois Swensen; Lois Johnson; Thelma Christensen. Back row, standing, left to right: Carrie Hansen; Ann Kempton; B. Davis Evans; Bessie Smith; Martha Simmons. Maude H. Ludlow, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society, reports: "At the closing social for the Palmyra Stake Relief Society, at Spanish Fork, Utah, the playlet 'Shakespeare in Our Lives' was presented under the direction of Edna Wride, stake literature class leader. Ten ward leaders participated in the program. A little book Quotations From Shakespeare was prepared by Sister Wride and presented to each Relief Society member in the stake. "A display of handicraft of various kinds and a fashion show, consisting of blouses, skirts, cotton dresses, and better dresses, modeled by the sisters who participated in the sewing classes in the wards, was presented by Palmyra Stake Work Director Counselor Dale White, and stake work meeting leader Faye Page." Page 834 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 835 fee waits i Photograph submitted by Avez M. Goodman TUCSON STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, June 1958 Virginia Swanson, organist, stands at the left; Jean Dees, chorister, second from the left. Avez M. Goodman, President, Tucson Stake Relief Society, reports that this was the first opportunity for these Singing Mothers to present music at a quarterly conference since the stake was organized one and one-half years ago. Photograph submitted by Charlotte M. Burleigh WOODRUFF STAKE, WOODRUFF WARD (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION Evanston, Wyoming, April 29, 1958 Mae R. Brown, accompanist, is scated at the piano; at the right on the second row (holding the baton) is Mayme Cornia, chorister. In the second row, beginning seventh from the left, are the Woodruff Ward Relief Society officers: Leath Eastman, First Counselor; Mae Hopkin, President; Maude Stuart, Second Counselor. Helen Cornia, Secretary, is seated at the left in the second row. Charlotte M. Burlcigh is president of Woodruff Stake Relicf Society. 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 Photographs submitted by Minnie P. Burton WEST GERMAN MISSION, TRIPOLI, LIBYA, RELIEF SOCIETY (WIVES OF SERVICEMEN), May 1958 Scated, left to right: (Upper Picture) Evelyn Meiners; Olene Baker, First Counsclor; Elaine Carter, Secretary; Abbie Fairchild; Loretta Hardy, Sccond Counselor. Standing, left to night: June Brown, President; Dorothy Davis; Doris Andrews. Sister Brown reports that this photograph represents a typical work meeting. "The women have spent all year (and will continue) making laycttes for Libyan babies out of wheat sacks which were sent full of wheat as a gift from the United States to the Libyan Government. These are distributed by the nurses and midwives in the Point Four Program to Libyan expectant mothers." WEST GERMAN MISSION, KAISERSLAUTERN GERMAN-AMERICAN RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY, March 1958 Front row, scated, left to right (Lower Picture), members of the German Relicf Society Klara Haensler; Berta Wolfenstaetter, Second Counselor; Ingeborg Buerthel, First Counselor; Luise Niemann, President. Officers of the American Relief Society: Laurel Madsen, President; Hazel Jensen, First Counselor; Sonja Zeigler, Second Counselor; Ellen Nicolaides, Secretary-Treasurer. Minnie P. Burton is president of the West German Mission Relief Socicty. Photogra ph MONTEREY BAY STAKE Front row NOTES From THE FIELD 837 burg; Lina Sc] ) race: Williams: ammermann; ive; Site; EmilienI leonore Bau Anna May: Michael; nann; Anna Burton, President, West German Mission Relief Socicty, the Relief Society birthday: Party with Were Present to interpret—the barrier IS one O anguage, responded with 2 song. The decorated table to enjoy a Tcports: "The not of spirit. FF. Something d Ings, and musi Celebration Casion, and the / Variety of } TIcan sisters all Srouped a beautifully Crman pastries, Socicties meet Scparately for Tegular for Partics and special occasions. The Church Singing Mothers are nearly al] recent converts to Ave paid tribute to the Amcrican Relicf Society for newly formed German Relicf Society. "The Spirit: of YO groups must be Precious to our Heavenly lather," ee submitted by LaVee Haws, Icft to right: President LaV ex Haws: ary-Treasurer. Eva Mi Mur Back Tow, left to right: First Counselor Lena Millett; See ond Counselor Gladys Standing, left to right: Siste Kaisers]g pr, through the miss; Programs have | > Maria Be vited their American Sisters of the Ics, told the American Visitors 4 program of history, read. Che German sisters Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 14—The Responsibilities of the Members of the Church Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 22; 20:37-84; 26) For Tuesday, March 3, 1959 Objective: their children. Review and Introduction In last month's lesson, we considered teachings relative to the "fulness of the gospel" as they are contained in The Book of Mormon. In addition, the Lord had commanded the organizing of his Church on April 6, 1830. Inasmuch as we studied only the first part of Section 20, it is now our privilege to examine related revelations and the rest of this revelation. As we do so, let us keep in mind that with the organizing of the kingdom of God upon the earth, there were many things to be made known as to exactly how the Church should function. There are many revelations yet to be studied which point out many phases of how the Lord's Church is to carry on its manifold purposes. This is also true with regard to the duties of those who constitute the membership of the organization. In other words, the Page 838 To set forth Priesthood responsibilities that mothers might teach Lord did not make everything known at one time, but as circumstances demanded, further light and information came through revelations to the Prophet. Section 22 One of the first questions to arise in this newly organized Church, was concerning the important ordinance of water baptism. It seems that some people who had been baptized into sectarian churches were desirous of uniting with the Church without rebaptism. (See D. H. C. 1:79; and superscription of Section 22.) In the minds of some, apparently, it was believed that the important factor about baptism was that it be performed by immersion. There are so many "Christians" today who feel, as in Joseph Smith's day, that authority to administer this ordinance is unnecessary, or that any clergyman is authorized by God to perform it. LESSON DEPARTMENT In order that there may be no question, the Lord made known in Section 22 that there is only one baptism and that is the one administered under the "... New and everlasting covenant..." (See D & C 22:1), which is the gospel of Jesus Christ as restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. (See D & C 66:2.) The 'dead works" of men for salvation in the kingdom of God are futile and although "... A man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing' (D & C 22:2). Divine law from the beginning prescribed only one "gate" into the kingdom of God, and_ that through an authorized baptism. (See D & C 22:1-4; 2 Nephi 31:17; Moses 7:64-68. ) Requirements for Baptism Another question to arise in this newly organized Church, was the important matter of what should be required of those who came into the fold of Christ. With definite emphasis upon the need to be born of water and of the Holy Ghost, as set forth in The Book of Mormon, just published, the Lord stated in plainness what is required of the prospective member of his Church. Notice carefully the thirty-seventh verse of Section 20 which reads as follows: And again, by way of commandment to the church concerning the manner of baptism—All those who humble themselves before God, and desire to be baptized, and come forth with broken hearts and contrite spirits, and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their sins, and are willing to take upon them the name of Jesus Christ, having a determination to serve him to the end, and truly manifest by their works that they have received of the Spirit of Christ unto the remission of their sins, shali be 839 received by baptism into his church (D & C 20:37). These instructions require a high degree of performance. For example, does not the Lord expect a prospective member of the kingdom to observe the Sabbath day in the manner the Lord has revealed through his living oracles? What about being honest in business transactions and, especially, with the Lord in regard to the payment of tithing, also in keeping the Word of Wisdom and other similar requirements? If one believes what the Lord revealed as requisites to receive a "temission of sins,' then there should not be any question concerning these matters. One is expected and one should come before the Lord with a "... Broken heart and contrite spirit" (D & C 59:8) sorrowing for past sins and in true humility seeking forgiveness, " and witness before the church that they have truly repented of all their gms... (D& C 20:37). "Tite Church member, before whom this convert comes to be received into fellowship, should also have a determination to serve Jesus Christ to the end. Responsibility of Mothers Although under a_ patriarchal order, the father presides in the family in giving counsel and instruction, the great responsibility of the mother is to rear the children in light and truth. It is a well-known fact that the mailmenée of 'tiie mother upon her children is very great. The fact that she is with the children so much during their formative years, and even later, giv es her a greater opportunity to influence the children in the home. When the teaching of the children comes from both parents, as it should, the double impact upon the child is apparent. Both parents have this responsibility even in matters relating to areas of Church government and administration which normally are best known by the father. An example of this subject matter is found in our text from The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20. All the leaders of the Church have given emphasis to the need of teaching in the home. Among these was President Joseph F. Smith, who, in the following quotation, places the responsibility upon both parents. Another great and important duty devolving upon this people is to teach their children, from their cradle until they become men and women, every principle of the gospel, and endeavor, as far as it lies in the power of the parents, to instil into their hearts a love for God, the truth, virtue, honesty, honor and integrity to everything that is good. That is important for all men and women who stand at the head of a family in the household of faith. Teach your children the love of God, teach them to love the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Teach them to love their fellowmen, and especially to love their fellow members in the Church that they may be true to their fellowship with the people of God. Teach them to honor the Priesthood, to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church (Gospel Doctrine, 6th Edition, pp. 292-293). The Necessity of Study And Its Application But how shall we teach our children from their cradles until they become men and women, if we are not informed on these important truths? With an understanding of light and truth, the maturity of years often provides wisdom and judgment which give to parents an influence that may be exercised in behalf of their posterity, young and old. There is no one in the Church who is exempt from teaching his children the restored gospel. So emphatic is the Lord concerning this matter, that, in 1833, he rebuked the members of the First Presidency composed of Joseph Smith, Frederick G. Williams, and Sidney Rigdon, because of their failure to comply completely with this admonition. (See D & C 93: 40-48. ) In addition to the need, perhaps this rebuke by the Lord was to be an object lesson for all members of the Church relative to their own responsibilities. 'There comes a time, however, as indicated concerning the Prophet in verse 48 of Section 93, when the members of a family stand condemned, if they do not give heed to the righteous teachings of the parents. A Statement of Truths What do we find in the remaining part of Section 20 which provides opportunities for study in an understanding of Church administration, duties of members, and the law by which we are governed? Here are the elements of this basic revelation which may be referred to as the "constitution" of the kingdom of God. 1. The duties of the elders of the Church are (D & C 20:38-45): To baptize. To ordain other elders, priests, teachers, and deacons. To administer the sacrament. To confirm baptized persons into the Church by the laying on of hands and giving of the Holy Ghost. 840 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT Otto Done 841 BUREAU OF INFORMATION AT THE HILL CUMORAH To teach, expound, exhort, and watch over the Church. To take the lead of all mectings and conduct them as they are led by the Holy Ghost. 2. The duties of the priests of the Church are (D & C 20:46-52): To preach, teach, expound, exhort, baptize, and administer the sacrament. To visit the house of each member and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties. To ordain other priests, teachers, and deacons. To take the lead of meetings when no elder is present; To assist the elders if occasion requires it. 3. [he teachers.. Of the Church should (D & C 20:53-56): Watch over and strengthen the Church always See that there is no iniquity in the hardness with — each backbiting, nor evil Church—nceither other, nor lying, speaking. See that the Church meets together often and that all the members do their duty. Take the lead of meetings in the absence of the clder or pricst. 4. The deacons of the Church should (D & C 20:57-59): Assist teachers with their duties when the occasion arises. Warn, expound, exhort, teach, and invite all to come unto Christ. 5. Law of common consent (D & C 20:60-67 ): a. Every elder, priest, teacher, and deacon is to be ordamed according to the gifts and callings of God unto him by the power of the Holy Ghost b. Conferences of the Church are to meet once in three months or from time to time, and these conferences ate to do 842 whatever Church business is necessary at the time. C. Elders are to receive their license from other elders by vote of the Church or from conferences, and each _ priest, teacher, deacon may receive license to perform his duties from an elder, or by a conference of the Church. D. No person may be ordained to an office in the Church where there is an organized branch without the vote of that branch, but where there is no branch, a presiding elder, high councilor, high priest, or elder may ordain him. E. Every president of the High Priesthood, bishop, high councilor, and high priest is to be ordained by the direction of a high council at general conference. 6. Duties of Church members (D & C 20:68-71): a. All ordinances performed in_ the Church must be done in order. The members shall manifest to all that they are worthy to belong to the Church. B. Every member having — children should bring them to the elders for a blessing. C. No one can be received into the Church of Christ until he has arrived at the age of accountability before God and is capable of repentance. 7. Ordinances (D & C 20:72-79): a. Immersion is the only mode of baptism, and it must be performed by a person who has authority of Jesus Christ to baptize. B. The Church should meet together often to partake of the sacrament in remembrance of the Lord. 'The manner of administering the sacrament is given in Section 20. (Note: the sacrament is the subject of next month's lesson.) 8. Records (D & C 20:80-84): a. Any member of the Church found in transgression is to be dealt with as the scriptures direct. It is the duty of the stakes, wards, or branches to keep a record of those who have been excommunicated that their names may be blotted out, and also of all members. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 b. All members of the Church who move from one locality to another are to take a letter certifying that they are regular members and in good standing in the Church. The specific duties of the elder are indicated at the beginning of this outline. These responsibilities apply not only to the person who is ordained to the office of elder in the Melchizedek Priesthood, but to those also who function in other ordained offices of that Priesthood. In fact, verse 38 points out that ".. An apostle is an elder..." but, as later indicated in Priesthood revelations, the office of ordination known as apostle carries additional privileges and responsibilities. E]der is a title of every member of the greater or Melchizedek Priesthood regardless of the office one may hold. Particular attention might be called to those who are classified as ward teachers. An ordained teacher is called to perform the important assignment of a ward or branch teacher with the responsibilities listed above. In analyzing the duties of the teacher, President David O. McKay has suggested that the ward teacher "possesses six leading qualifications: viz., those of watchman, strengthener, arbitrator, guide, exemplar, and leader" (Gospel Ideals, page 193). As to the opportunity in ward teaching, President McKay points out the following: I believe that in ward teaching there is one of the greatest opportunities in all the world to awaken in those who are negligent, discouraged, downhearted, and sad, renewed life and a desire to reenter into activity in the Church of Jesus Christ. By such activity they will be led back into the spiritual atmosphere which will lift their souls and give them power LESSON DEPARTMENT to overcome weaknesses which are now shackling them. To give help, encouragement, and inspiration to every individual is the great responsibility and privilege of ward jeu. Ers (Ibid., page 196). Every Latter-day Saint might well ask himself whether or not he or she respects these servants of the Lord who come into the homes monthly as representatives of the bishop by calling the family together, requiring that the radio, television, and other distracting noises be eliminated. 'The warm, friendly welcome of the parents and children conforms to the type of fellowship which should characterize every Latter-day Saint family. Respect should also, of course, be given to the visiting Relief Society teachers in their monthly visits with the mother of the familv. The Lord has established the quarterly conference and other conferences as special occasions when the necessary business of the Church is transacted. With the visits of the General Authorities to the stake conferences, it seems most consistent that the membership of the Church be in attendance at these appointed meetings. How many of us have realized fully that the Lord places a definite duty upon parents in his kingdom to have their children blessed? 'The worthy father, holding the Melchizedek Priesthood, has a special right to confer this blessing upon his children. 'The exercise of this right is not always confined to the Fast Meeting in the ward but the ordinance may be performed in the home. When so done, however, it is necessary to inform the bishop of the ward that a proper recording be made on the records of the Church 843 (Gospel Doctrine, 6th Edition, pp. 291-292). Opportunitics for Mothers An understanding of the above truths will help us to realize that as parents in Zion who have had our children baptized, our responsibility to instruct and prepare them for useful service is not ended. President Heber J. Grant once said that it was folly for parents to imagine that their children will grow up with a knowledge of the gospel without teaching. Parents are not justified when they leave the teaching of their children to the Auxiliaries of the Church. 'The amount of time children are in_ these organizations per week is small. 'The great opportunities for teaching the gospel are in the home. A testimony comes and grows by faith arising from true knowledge and diligence in keeping the commandments. If parents know the gospel they can govern themselves and teach correct principles to their children. Common Consent One of the great principles in governing the kingdom of God in all dispensations of the gospel is the law of common consent. Whenever that kingdom has been organized on the earth it has never been a democracy, as such, but one of the elements of democracy is this principle. 'The members do not legislate their own laws by which they are governed, nor do they elect their officers. Revelation from the Law Giver, Jesus Christ, is the means of governing his kingdom. Common consent means that by the united voice of the Church certain actions pertaining to its operations are submitted to the 844 members. As verses 60 through 67 of Section 20 point out, general Church business and ordinations to offices are performed by common consent. Elders of the Church act only under direction of those who are empowered to direct them because of the right given to them by the approval of the members. 'That the vote of the Church is necessary to make valid the privilege to hold office is brought out clearly in other revelations. (See D & C 41:9; 51:12; 124:124-144.) A good example of the operation of this law was the occasion of the organization of the Church on April 6, 1830. A rereading of Lesson 13 will indicate how Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were accepted by those present to be their teachers, and whether or not there was agreement to organize the Church upon that eventful day. Section 26 One of the shortest revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants is Section 26. Nevertheless, it is lmportant in the fact that again the Lord emphasizes that: And all things shall be done by common consent in the Church, by much prayer and faith, for all things you shall receive by faith. When we exercise our rights under the law of common consent, it is to be done "... By much prayer and faith...." If one lives by prayer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 and in faith, one should be entitled to the Holy Ghost that his judgments may be in accrdance with the will of our Lord. Every true Latterday Saint has the nght to that Spirit, if he will but live for it. The fact that the Prophet Joseph Smuth was directed in the govern-. Ing of the Church and that he relied upon the Lord "... By much prayer and faith..." is given confirmation in the last part of verse 1 of Section 26. Concerning the conference to be held in the West, together with other matters, the Prophet is told that "... It shall be made known what you shall do" (D & C 26:1). Questions for Discusion 1. What factors determine whether or not baptism is acceptable to the Lord? 2. What is the new and _ everlasting covenant? 3. What obligation does a member of the Church have toward a convert as the new member is received into fellowship in the Church? 4. Indicate some of the duties of the elder, priest, teacher, and deacon. 5. May an ordained deacon be assigned to do ward teaching? 6. In what ways can the members of the Church assist the ward teachers? 7. Discuss why the members of the Church should attend stake quarterly conferences. 8. What is meant by the law of common consent, and how does it apply to me as a member of the Church? For a chart of Priesthood duties, see The Instructor, May 1958, inside back cover. > Reciprocity Grace Ingles Frost With a flag of golden glory unfurled, The sun is saying goodnight to the world; And with words of praise, for a task well done, The world is saying goodnight to the sun. Visiting Cleacher I lessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 14—"Beware of Pride, Lest Thou Shouldst Enter Into Temptation" (D. & C. 23:1). Christine I. Robinson Por 'Tuesday, March 3, 1959 Objective: To show that Satan uses pride to tempt us and that "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall" EPEATEDLY in his teachings, our Father in heaven warns us of the danger of selfish pride. In his all-seeing wisdom he knows that our spiritual development and our joy and success depend upon humility, meekness, modesty, understanding, and a constant striv ing for selfdevelopment and improvement. Selfish pride generates opposite characteristics. It produces vanity, arrogance, haughtiness, covetousness, boastfulness, and other negative characteristics. 'These limit and stifle spiritual growth and stand as obstacles to successful living. The Book of Mormon character, Alma, expressed his concern about pride when he advised his son Shiblon to: See that ye are not lifted up unto pride; yea, see that ye do not boast in your own wisdom, nor of your much strength (Alma 38:11). This great prophet further warned that those who are lifted up in the pride of their own eyes are led into all manner of wickedness. (See Alma 1:32.) Solomon, in describing the seven things which "the Lord hates," lists first "a proud look" and emphasizes that "Only by pride cometh contention..." (Prov. 13:10), and "Be- (Prov. 16:18). Fore destruction the heart of man is haughty..." (Prov. 18:12). The Lord's deep concern that we should beware of pride lest we enter into temptation is a warning against selfish pride. Selfish pride leads to self-aggrandizement and becomes Satan's tool of temptation. Even Jesus was not spared Satan's clever temptation aimed at an appeal to selfish pride. Prior to the Savior's nunistry, the devil took.. Him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them; And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan... (Mt. 4:8-10). Pride can lead to the destruction not only of individuals but of whole nations. 'lhis destructive power ls particularly evident in Book of Mormon history. When the people kept the commandments of the Lord, they prospered. But, during periods of prosperity, they often allowed themselves to become "... Proud in their hearts..." (4 Nephi 43). It was under these conditions that they succuinbed to Satan's temptations and were led to their own destruction. Unselfish pride, however, if propc Page 845 846 erly controlled and channelled, may exert a constructive, uplifting influence. For example, we should never undermine our own self-respect and dignity. We should be proud of our divine heritage as children of our Father in heaven and as descendants of worthy earthly parents. We have the right to be proud of the righteous accomplishments of our children and of the blessings and opportunities of membership in our great Church. 'These evidences of unselfish pride are good, so long as they serve as incentives to more purposeful, fruitful living. Yet, this unselfish pride, too, can become a tool of temptation in Satan's hand. Unless it is controlled, it can lead to a sense of selfsufficiency, to self-righteousness and intolerance. 'These attitudes can constrict and limit our development. 'They can make us unteachable and wise in our own eyes. 'They can make us resistant to the teachings and counsels of the Lord and can cause us to slip backward rather than to move forward. We need not be rich, powerful, or achieve worldly fame and honor in order to encounter the destroying influences of pride. None of us is immune to this human weakness. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 Pride raises its tempting head throughout each day's activities. Sometimes it takes the form of stubbornness. For example, we may hesitate to ask forgiveness of another when we speak a harsh word, or fail to do some little kind act because our pride stands in the way. We may become jealous of anothers accomplishment or of some honor he or she may have received, because our pride impresses us that we might have done as well. Sometimes our pride makes us unwilling to accept the wise advice of others and hinders us from applying better ways of doing things. Surely, all of us need constantly to keep on guard lest the weakening influence of pride unsuspectingly leads us into temptation. Let us remember the words of Solomon when he said: "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall" (Prov. 16:18). How may we then combat the insidious influence of pride? The Lord has reminded: He that shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God? (Micah 6:8). > December Violets Mabel Law Atkinson Love does not wait till blue wings flash To bid the heart to sing; Till fluting larks and swelling buds Announce the proof of spring. Love knows no season boundaries, Gives lilacs in November And gathers April violets In crystal-cold December. Work ITleeting— Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 6—Making the Most of Time and Energy Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, March 10, 1959 Objective: To recognize that a clean, orderly, and happy home is an ideal in all our lives and can be more nearly accomplished when one learns to use time and energy wisely. ONE of our wise philosophers has said: "We buy the quality of our lives with the use we make of our time, money, and energy." 'Time is no respector of persons; everyone of us starts each new day with twenty-four new, unused hours. We cannot afford to use all of our waking hours in sheer physical labor, for we need some time for the spiritual and the aesthetic pursuits in a home. Planning is our best friend in the wise use of time and energy. Good habits and carefully worked out scquences for routine tasks can save us endless hours of housekeeping time. Modern-day homemakers are now reaping the benefits of much good thinking and research that has gone into the effective use of time and energy. Magazines and books are full of suggestions for making housework casicr and less time-consuming. It has been estimated that the average homemaker spends twice as much time and energy as she needs to in order to keep her home the way she wants it. Work simplification is simply common-sense way of doing many household tasks. New patterns for doing tasks are evolved by deliberately seeking the facts on a tried-and-true basis rather than leaving them to be solved by past habits, whim, fancy, or prejudice. We cannot, we must not let precious hours of life be wasted on trivial activities, unnecessary use of human effort, or in continuing habits of work which are outmoded or without any real meaning or purpose. A key to work simplification might make use of the questions: Why? What? When? Where? Who? And How? Just getting into the habit of asking the following questions frequently could lead to eliminating some nonessential parts of a task. 1. Why is this particular piece of work done? What would happen in my home if it were not done? 2. What is to be done? Purpose of the doing? 3. When is the work done? Would it be better to do it at some other time? 4. Where is the work done? Could it be done somewhere else more eftectively? 5. Who docs the work? Could someone else do it better? Can changes be made to permit a person with less. Skill and training to do the work, saving my time and encrgy for more important family matters? 6. How is the work done? This requires a careful analysis of the motions made in accomplishing the task. What is the Industry has done much in the area of work simplification and has given us some real practical helps which we have applied to homemaking called "Six Principles of Work Simplification": Page 847 Principle 1. Leave out any part of the task vou can. Does the job really need to be done, or can some part of it be left out? Throw out habits of work which are based on whim, fancy, or prejudiced mind. Principle 2. Make one task of two or more. Combine tasks — try to do one task as you do another. Principle 3. Keep things within easy reach. Take a good look at all storage facilities. Is there a place for everything, and is everything in its place? Well-planned storage of tools, supplies, clothing, books, etc. Can result in increased free time and energy for family members. Principle 4. Use the best tool. A conscious concern for all the tools used while doing a task will pay great dividends in the use of time and energy and the way one feels about the task. Principle 5. Make both hands work. Distribute effort to both hands, to both sides of the body, so that loads will be balanced. Principle 6. Use the best posture. Overfatigue ls caused more often by poor posture habits than by the job itself. Consider travel distance and arrangement of equipment, work surface, cupboards, etc. Conform the tool to the body, rather than the body to the tool. Discussion Thoughts 1. Do you think mechanical conveniences are the only means by which you can save time and energy in the home? Discuss. 2. Do you think it is lazy to sit down to do household tasks? 3. Is it worth the time and effort to take time to work out a new way of doing a task in order to do it better? 4. During the discussion period encourage one or two to tell their most effective shortcut in homemaking. Bara re — America's Literature — Meet the New World Lesson 6—The Mather Dynasty Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 12- 14; 61-73) Por 'Tuesday, March 17, Objective: three generations of the Mathers. F nothing else, the Puritan mind was complex. One moment, the Puritan felt that he had fulfilled his calling and, having received God's grace, was "the very Top of Felicity'; the next moment, when his old sins triumphed anew, he felt himself the vilest of the vile. He felt it was the highest duty to submit to the rule of the magistrates, the Godchosen theocracy, yet he educated 1959 To become more familiar with the Puritan theocracy as exemplified in not only himself but his negro slaves, the heathen Indian, and the ignorant peasants of far-off Bavaria. Ile whipped and hanged Quakers, banished and excommunicated his own brethren who differed in points of doctrine, yet, in his stern but sometimes arrogant kindness, he was gravely concerned how he could do most good to his fellow men. He pioneered compulsory educa- 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT tion on the elementary and _ secondary levels, and, at Harvard, vigorously defended the new Corpernican theory of astronomy which made the sun the center of the universe, not the earth. Yet he believed in the most weird superstitions and miraculous events. He claimed the Old Testament patriarchal order and the Primitive Church of early Christianity as his models. Yet he zealously sought to accumulate worldly wealth for himself through the competition of the profit system, feeling that financial success was visible proof that God was pleased with him for having kept the commandments. The list of these apparently conflicting generalizations could be extended at some length, but space forbids. One of the rewards of studying literature is that it specifies generalized causes and movements as seen working in the mind of one single, separate person. And no thread runs more truly along the center core of New England Puritanism than does that of the Mather family. By meeting briefly the three generations of Mather men, we see the birth of the dream of the New Zion, watch it rise to its heights, then degenerate before the new currents of belief and value which shaped the American colonies in the decades preceding the Revolutionary War. Richard Mather (1596-1669) Influenced by John Cotton and Thomas Hooker, Richard Mather (rhymes with rather) came to Dorchester, Massachusetts, in 1633, after his Puritanical beliefs caused him to be suspended as a minister in England. For his physical strength and endurance, his full 849 voice, and his sincere devotion to Puritanism, he was known as "a mighty man." The church was always his first love; then came his great love of books, his power of swaying his audiences with his words, and his never-satisfied need to publish his many writings, thus finding prominence and fame in the religious world and in his own community. It was Richard Mather who first wrote the basic theory of Puritan church government. 'Theologically his most important work was The New England Platform (1649) which applied the covenant principle to local churches. Thirteen years later, when he saw the existence of the church threatened by its own requirement that only those among the second generation who had received a spiritual illumination of vision were worthy of membership, he drafted the Half-Way Covenant. 'This controversial document eased membership requirements sufficiently to insure the church's selfperpetuation. The most popular book to which he contributed was the Bay Psalm Book, the first book published in America. Appearing in 1640, less than ten years after the Puritans arrived, it was reprinted more than seventy times before the Revolution, yet only eleven copies survive. In 1947 one of these was sold for $151,000, the greatest sum ever paid for an English work, more than twice the total paid for its nearest rival, Shakespeare's First Folio. Until recently it was believed that the preface to the Bay Psalm Book came from Mather's pen, but recent scholarship proves it to have been written by John Cotton, although 850 Paul's Photos INCREASE MATHER Mather probably translated some of the Psalms, as did many of his fellow ministers. The aim of the book was to restate the Psalms of David in language sufficiently plain that a direct, simple transmission of thought was no longer obstructed by fancy words and elegance of phrase. As the preface states, "God's altar needs not our polishing." The translation of the Twenty-third Psalm is unique. It begins: The Lord to mee a shepheard is, want therefore shall not I Hee in the folds of tender grasses, doth cause me downe to lie: To waters calme me gently leads restore my soul doth hee: Hee doth in paths of righteousness: for his names sake leade mee. The morning of his death he tried to enter his library to open his beloved but temporarily neglected books. Seeing he could not make it, he said, "I have not been in my study several days; and is it not a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-DECEMBER 1958 lamentable thing that I should lose so much time?" 'The Mather dye was cast early and firmly. Increase Mather (1639-1723) Four of Richard's six sons became ministers. Increase, the youngest, was the greatest leader of them all, and greatest of the Mather clan. Blood tells, particularly so with the Mathers. Increase: entered Harvard at age twelve, thus far its youngest pupil. He learned Latin, Hebrew, and Greek, and, upon his graduation at seventeen, sailed for Dublin, where his brother Samuel was a noted preacher, to graduate from Trinity University with distinction. As one might expect of a Mather so promising and proud, he preached from various prominent English and Irish pulpits for the next three years, New England now being too small and remote a place for his talents. However, when Cromwell's Commonwealth, crumbled, so did the fond vision of Puritanism's ever being the dominant church in England. Soon after Charles II was restored to the English throne, Increase found it more comfortable as a dissenter to return home. He received offers from dozens of churches, but began preaching at the North Church in Boston. During the first thirty years of his sixty-two year ministry, he became the most powerful man in the colonies, without question. When James IT came to the throne in 1685 and Massachusetts was in grave danger of losing all rights of self-government, it was Increase Mather who convinced James II, and, after 1688, his successor William of Orange, that Massachusetts should receive a new charter, despite her past severe LESSON DEPARTMENT acts of intolerance against fellowEnglishmen who held heretical religious views. When, to receive any charter at all, Increase was forced to guarantee true religious toleration henceforth, the absolute authority of the theocracy came to an end, and with it much of Mather's political and ecclesiastical prestige. In those first brilliant decades of hope fulfilled, the shining star of the Mather dynasty rose to its highest point. This one small community of Boston in the four decades preceding 1660 had drained off to itself hundreds of university graduates. By 1700, a community of seven thousand, it supported two printing presses, second only to London, and half a dozen booksellers, some of whom became wealthy; at the time of Increase's death, when it had grown to ten thousand, Boston had supported four newspapers. During the 160 years between 1640 and 1799, almost thirty-six thousand separate entries were published, requiring twelve volumes of bibliography merely to list all the titles. And in this prolonged ferment of reading and publishing, Increase Mather was the top scholar as long as he lived, rivaled and surpassed by only one: his son Cotton. During his years in Boston, Increase published at least one book every year, totaling at his death in excess of 130 titles and sixty-five collaborations. Throughout his maturity his "scholar's day" was at least sixteen hours. In addition, he organized a society for scientific discussion, and corresponded regularly with various eminent scientists in England. This intellectual fervor was not in spite of his religion, but because 851 of it. He was but practicing to a zealous degree a central tenet of Puritanism as stated by Benjamin Whichcote when he said, "The Christian religion is intellectual, rational, and spiritual." 'Therefore he was the logical choice to be Harvard's new president, an offer which he, at first, declined in favor of his purely religious duties. Finally accepting, he was in full control of the school for sixteen years, furthering scientific studies and the newest theories from England, while at the same time safeguarding the conservative religious beliefs. Exactly as his father had done before him, he resented life's shortness and every moment which kept him from his books, since through them, he believed, he could best serve his fellows. As he wrote: Not many years ago I lost several months from study by sickness. Let every God-fearing reader joyn with me in prayer, that I may be enabled to redeem the time, and (in all ways where I am capable) to serve my gencration. Perhaps he served them through books too much; he needed his books more than his people. Relying more on tradition than on human warmth, he became austere and dogmatic. Impatient with those less zealous than himself, he tried to force love and respect, which is only to destroy them. So intense became his self-esteem and his inability to share responsibility with others, that his enemies were no longer only the worldly profit-seckers and religious opponents outside his tightly controlled theocracy; his own followers revolted. 'Though he remained in his church office until his death, he was cased out of his 852 control of Harvard while still in the prime of life. Decades before he died, in 1723, the dream of perpetuating the New England Zion was for most men dead. But while Increase dreamed of that glorious past, his son Cotton tried to recreate it. And like his father and grandfather, his tool, of course, was the one most highly esteemed by all the Mathers: the pen. Cotton Mather (1663-1728) Born two years after his father Increase returned to Boston to begin his life's work there, Cotton outlived him but five bitter years. 'Though the two lives thus ran parallel, Cotton lived in the shadow of his illustrious father, obsessed with the fear that he would not "measure up." He must not fail, nor could the Puritan theocracy, to which he stood as chief heir-apparent. 'To a defense of these two overwhelming propositions he dedicated his life, but in vain. In his love of the past he forswore unappreciative realities of the present, continuing his withdrawal until he became a_ living anachronism. Outwardly, in scholarly pursuits, at least, he outshone his father. While Increase published 130 titles in his lifetime, Cotton published over 450. Increase spoke only Latin, though he could read Hebrew and Greek; Cotton was completely at home in seven languages. His private library contained over two thousand volumes, by far the largest in New England. Like his father, Cotton entered Harvard at age twelve, but his schoolmates found him to be a spoiled prig who had no time for entering into their play, so busy was he composing written RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 Paul's Photos COTTON MATHER prayers asking forgiveness for their cruel words and actions. A nervous, stuttering child, he overcame his defect sufficiently to serve with his father as co-minister of the North Church, but he could never exert any influence politically, and he became an overseer of Harvard rather than its president, as he had hoped. The Puritan Cotton Mather's strength lay in his realization that God cared about his fate, yet whether he was among the chosen whom God had "pulled out of the Horrible Pitt" or whether he was to be damned, he could never know for sure. Cotton Mather's diary is a glowing revelation of the anxious tension to know which dominated his life. Always probing within himself for "the Mark of an effectually called Person," he submitted himself to as many as sixty periods of fasting and twenty vigils within one year. Further, by his "fastings, contritions, humiliations, supplications and abasements," he sought consciously to create within himself the symptoms he so desperately LESSON DEPARTMENT sought. When he was ignored socially, he pouted; when his will was crossed, he ranted; in his later years, he referred to the rising generation which spurned his guidance as "'silly, foolish people" and "insignificant lice." He was strongly opposed to entrusting common people with major decisions, feeling that "the highest privilege of the people is to be ruled by the Godly." Knowing, as he knew his name, that God had enchained the devil, but that he had "horribly lengthened out the Chain," he entered in his diary the all-consuming purpose of his later years: I have set myself to countermine the Whole Plot of the Devil against New England, in every branch of it, as far as one of my darkness can comprehend such a work of darkness. Through his diary we see him pathetically driven by his own desire to do good, that he might fulfill his own early promises of greatness. But in his loneliness, spurts of confidence, frustrations, and fears, he becomes nearly a pathetic figure. The Salem Witchcraft Trials Between 1647 and 1662, fourteen people had been hanged as witches in Connecticut and Massachusetts, then for over twenty years nothing happened until the early eighties. Increase Mather finished making a collection of proofs that the devil was actively working against Christ's cause, an editing task which had been begun by ministers in England and Ireland, then turned over to him. Entitled Remarkable Providences, the collection was published in 1684 to impress New Englanders with the increasing enormities of 853 their sins; else God would loosen the devil's chain even further. The accounts were objectively published just as Increase received them, but he erred by giving the prestige of his name to them without checking, at firsthand, with the original informants. As examples of "The Devil's Sport" which he carries on with us, Increase Mather cited chairs flying mysteriously through the air to alight on the supper table, a man beaten by his leathern breeches just after blowing out the candle to retire, cheese being wrested from a boy's hand just as he was to bite it, children eating ashes, barking like dogs, and clucking like hens. Such writings published by the greatest personal force in the community could not help but affect the people. At Salem, a group of teen-age girls began screaming that devils were biting and_ pinching them. In the prestige of the court they named various neighbors as witches, first poor, unattractive old women, but then more prominent people. Single-handed, Increase stopped the trials, an order for eight more executions was annulled, over 150 accused persons were released from jail, and all confessed witches were pardoned. While less than forty persons were killed as unconfessed witches in all of New England, several hundreds were executed in England and Scotland during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, while unnumbered thousands died in Germany and Scandinavia during the century. Cotton Mather had nothing directly to do with the trials. It was after the trials were over that Cotton blackened himself in the eyes of posterity with his ever-active pen. By appealing to outworn covenant theology, he tried to make these deaths seem just and necessary. Magnalia Christi Americana Designedly Cotton Mather's greatest work (it took him three years to write it) and the one which represents him most fairly is Magnalia Christi Americana, translated as 'The Great Achievements of Christ in America. Divided into seven sections, its thousands of pages in general recount the "remarkable providences" by which God had guided the destinies of his people in New England, and it honored her great heroes of the past seventy years since the founding in 1630. Traditionally, the Puritans used history to prove that God had darkened the world during the Middle Ages, then slowly allowed man to receive more light and truth through the Renaissance until the New England venture brought his intent to a climax. In the words of the eminent John Cotton, grandfather to Cotton Mather, every Puritan felt a "panting, longing, eager desire" to see this fulfillment accomplished within himself. Bradford, Wa£inthrop, and other historians recorded day-to-day history as it happened, noting moral values and evidence of God's guiding hand. But not so with Cotton Mather. Cotton portrayed the New England past as having been in a delicate balance. For a certain measure of faithfulness God had allowed his people an equivalent amount of prosperity and happiness; likewise for so much sin, a balancing amount of punishment in the form of sickness, storm, drouth, or Indian attack had been measured out before the score had been evened once more. Man had fallen, but by a series of dramatic crises and victories he had recovered. Yet though evils covered the land once more: Therefore have we good reason to hope that this Day of Trouble, is near to an end, if our sins doe not undoe all that hath been wrought for us. Thus, as one might expect, New England history written for New Englanders was really another sermon in historical disguise. Cotton Mather's Mature Style When he so desired, Cotton wrote with a plain simplicity reminiscent of Bradford, as exemplified in his beautifully written life (text page 69). It was this philosophy of "the plain style" which had prompted his grandfather Richard Mather to rewrite David's Psalms, so compatible was it to the Puritan mind. Yet, in 1726, twenty-two years after Magnalia appeared, Mather published his Manaductio ad Munisterium designed to advise prospective young ministers on various matters, among them literary style. Completely repudiating the concept of the plain style as being theuniformly gray container in which all contents had for too long been couched, he said, "Every man will have his own style which will distinguish him as much as his gait." Mather asked for the privilege of writing in the style which would insinuate onto his page the insight he had gained from his vast reading; then his "composures" would be "not only a cloth of gold, but also stuck with as many jewels as the gown of a Russian ambassador." 854 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT We could ask no better description than his introduction to Magnalia (see text, page 63). It is overly wrought to our senses, and so laden with Mather's lifelong collection of literary jewels that its thought is difficult to follow. It does, nonetheless, attain the epic grandeur which Cotton felt most appropriate to his subject. And whether the subject is more accurately New England or 855 Cotton Mather it would be hard to say. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why did Richard Mather rewrite David's 'Twenty-third Psalm? 2. What was Cotton Mather's use of New England's historical past? 3. How did he justify his departure from the Puritan's traditional "'plain style'? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 19—"We Seek After These Things" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, March 24, 1959 Objective: the home. VERY family has the responsibility of establishing a way of life which will develop a stable sense of values for its members. The ability to put "first things first" is developed through wholesome pursuits and the wise application of "heart, might, mind and soul." If the home is well balanced, family members will naturally develop interests in worthwhile things and will be greatly aided in becoming welladjusted individuals. Family strength, solidarity, and happiness are enhanced when family members individually are healthy, happy, well-adjusted persons. 'The personality of man, like his physical body, is best nourished by proper diet. Each grows best through a balance of wholesome foods. A harmful ingredient not only fails to aid growth, but may interfere with normal development. Two of the dietary needs of the personality are education and spiritTo illustrate the importance of wholesome educational influences in uality. (See Lesson 11, "As the 'Twig Is Bent.) In this lesson, we shall study the role of the family in providing the proper stimulation to help its members grow spiritually and intellectually. Used as the Lord intended, education can become a powerful tool in molding abundant living and useful citizenship, now and hereafter. Family Education Throughout the history of the Church, our people have fostered good educational institutions, —believing that intellectual progress is an essential part of our mortal existence. As our pioneer forefathers moved from place to place, the establishment of schools was second only to finding a place of worship. From the moment they arrived in the "valley of the mountains," plans were made to construct schools of a permanent nature where the best of instruction for their children 856 could be offered. Such gems as the following have been constant treminders to develop our minds: It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance (D & C 131:6). Since this quotation means ignorance of Jesus Christ and the laws of salvation, it is an admonition to pursue gospel scholarship. Elder Mark E. Petersen said:. Education, which fails to build faith actually is a system of ignorance, it is a system of blindness, it is a system which alienates people from the way of God... (The Relief Society Magazine, January 1952, page 9). The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth (D & C 93:36). Our present educational systems offer good opportunities to all who are willing to seek them. In the child's early years, educational planning is primarily a parental responsibility, but thereafter, it is basically a joint venture between parent and child. In planning its educational program, each family might well consider: 1. How can we instill within our children a love of learning? A desire for higher education? 2. How much education does each child require? 3. How shall we select the schools to be attended? 4. How shall the schooling be financed? 5. How much vocational and job-placement guidance should children receive? Desire for Learning The desire for learning is born and developed in the home. Children search when stimulated by parental interest and encouragement, and searching is learning. 'The environment of the home, which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 includes many aspects as we have learned, is probably the greatest single influence on intellectual attainment. As the child reaches out for knowledge, and as he uses it, he experiences sensations varying from pleasure to dissatisfaction. Parents are uniquely equipped to help their children feel the pleasure of accomplishment. If a child's early learning experiences are pleasant and effective, an unquenchable thirst for knowledge is developed, satishied only by the consistent acquisition and use of knowledge. Praise should be strong when success is evident, and encouragement ready when the effort and work need improvement. Confidence in the child's potential should be expressed, thus helping him surmount his difficulties. Bacon once said, "reading maketh a full man," and Latter-day Saints have always regarded seriously the admonition:. Seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). If good books and periodicals are always available in the home, children will never be content with mediocre literature, but will grow up with an appetite for the best. When parents take the time to read aloud from good books to small children, a new world opens up which can grow richer through the years. Reading readiness is not the only pre-school preparation which helps a child adjust to the learning process effectively. Parents should also see the importance of a normal social adjustment, self-reliance, self-discipline, proper work habits, sound LESSON DEPARTMENT health habits, normal physical growth, ability to share with others, active interest in others, and knowledge of the world in which we live. All of these things and more, contribute to setting the stage of the child's "love of learning" and make the learning delightful. Parents can also encourage good study habits by providing in the home adequate lighting, quiet atmosphere, and clean, comfortable surroundings. 'The family library, with such helpful reference material as parents can afford, should be planned to invite its use. In addition, children should be encouraged to use the public library and should be familiar with its procedures. Parental visits to school give encouragement and status to children and provide parents with an awareness of school difficulties, so they can aid in the happy school adjustment of the children. Perhaps, parents can best give children a desire for education by exhibiting the results of their own learning through good living and by showing a continuous interest in studying and progressing with their children ("Live and Learn Forever," Relief Society Magazine, December 1957, page 816). Children should be taught to visualize the breadth of education; that it is more than going to school; more than learning how to make a living; that it is a life-long process of learning how to live. One of our prophets has said:. Eternal progress can be enjoyed only when the principles of eternal life are associated with their daily existence. Education that has for its highest ideals the pursuit of worldly ambitions is wanting in that free and unrestrained flow 857 of the spirit which makes for higher freedom and a more wholesome life (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 353). Intellectual Capacities Intellectual capacities differ and, for this reason, it is unwise for parents to compare the accomplishments of different children. It is discouraging and unfair to the less gifted. Each one should feel that he is competing only with himself and that his best effort should be his goal. Each child should be encouraged to develop in its own way, thus recognizing that each is different in capacity, interest, and achievement. To force a child into a mold of another is to suggest failure. The same effect generally results when a parent attempts to achieve vicariously through a child that which the parent failed to achieve. The oft dreamed wish of a mother that her son grow up to be President is a desirable goal and a possible source of real stimulation, if mother (and father) deal with it wisely. A parent's strong desire for his child to achieve in a particular way is often defeated by too much parental direction. Education, like salvation, must be personally achieved. No child will "arrive" at a desired goal except on his own power and _parents' enthusiasm should not cause them to "force" the child, for he will never achieve in that way. He should be seeking his own goal. A desire to learn and a willingness to work are far more important than native brilliance, for few children fall into a genius class. The humility to be teachable is a valuable asset in the learning process. When some children become discouraged, thinking they are not as endowed as others, perhaps these words would. Be timely:... The spirit of genius is the spirit of hard work, plodding toil, whole-souled devotion to the labor of the day (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 370). Higher Education Students should be encouraged to seek as much education as their chosen vocation or profession require and as circumstances permit. A college education, properly applied, can be a valuable "passport to better living" throughout their lives. The schools selected usually depend upon geographic location, specialized courses offered, finances involved, and, perhaps, Church affiliation. If these items are discussed and decided on a family basis, family members can better help each other achieve their desired goals. Generally speaking, students appreciate their education more and apply themselves better when they carry some portion of the financial load. It is not uncommon in this day to see young families join in helping father get his education. While this generally involves some sacrifice, it cannot be regarded negatively, for such an experience is laden with blessings for all the family. Vocational Guidance Vocational choices should be made by the individual concerned, because success is more apt to be had in a field of interest. But interest should not be the sole criterion. We may be interested but not adapted. Parents should provide some guidance and thus prevent unhappiness and disappointment later on. Professional counseling is also available and should be sought early enough to make the school program effective. Follow-up counseling to insure successful on-the-job adjustment is also helpful. In choosing vocations, their prastical applications should be kept in mind. Seek to be educated in the highest meaning of the term; get the most possible service out of your time, your body and brains, and let all your 'efforts be directed into honorable channels, that no effort shall be wasted, and no labor result in loss or evil (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 351). While we are educating our children in all that may be termed the beautiful in science and art, we should not fail to insist that they shall learn to do practical things, and that they do not despise the common labors of life. Any other course toward them is an injustice to the boys and girls, as well as to ourselves and the community in general (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 344)- Education for Women Education for women is desirable to improve their ability to fulfill their most important roles in life as wives and mothers, and to equip them to earn a living outside the home, if such becomes necessary. President Joseph F. Smith once said: It is very important to the welfare, usefulness, happiness, and comfort of our daughters (in view of certain circumstances) that they learn some branch of industry that could be turned to practical account in the way of making a living, should circumstances require it (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph F. Smith, page 352). Are you fitting them for the practical duties of mother and wife.... Or are you... Making them... Expert in ostentatious embellishments? Is mother doing all the work? If you say yes. 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 LESSON DEPARTMENT you are not doing your full duty to your child (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Joseph I', Smith, page 344). The intellectual growth of Latterday Saint women has been greatly enhanced by the educational aspects of the Relief Society. 'Through this medium they are constantly improving their skills to be and become better wives and mothers. Education Is Long Lasting We know that educational progress, not necessarily academic, not only benefits family members by providing a more abundant life, but it also affects their eternal progression. The Lord requires that we study things of the spirit, that our greatest purpose be to build faith. In The Book of Mormon the ancient prophet said, "To be learned is good, if they hearken unto the counsels of God." No discussion of the role of education in Latter-day Saint family life can omit the need for gospel scholarship. Parents should teach their children the gospel. The Doctrine and Covenants clearly states that God will hold parents responsible for their teachings in the home. (See D & C 68:25-28.) While secular education is desirable, it is the gospel perspective that we should seek—knowledge of God and his laws so that such knowledge can rise with us in the resurrection and give us eternal reward there. Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D & C 130:18-19). This knowledge with other great 859 truths revealed by revelation in creases our obligation to improve our minds through constant study. It emphasizes the importance of placing our children under the influence of teachers with sound spititual values. We have always been taught that a lifetime of learning is of no avail unless the Spirit of the Lord dwells with us and prompts us to use our learning wisely to benefit our fellow men. It is our responsibility as Latterday Saints to lead our families into wholesome educational and spiritual pursuits which will not only educate their minds, but gladden their hearts and enrich their souls as well. President David O. McKay has well summarized the purpose of true education: It is awakening a love for truth; giving a just sense of duty; opening the eyes of the soul to the great purpose and end of life. It is not so much giving words, as thoughts; or mere maxims, as living principles. It is not teaching to be honest, because "honesty is the best policy" but because it is right. It is teaching the individual to love the good, for the sake of the good, to be virtuous in action because one is so in heart; to love and serve God supremely not from fear, but from delight in his perfect character (Gospel Ideals, President David O. McKay, page 437). Questions for Discussion 1. Give a brief history of education within the Church since its organization. Describe the Church educational system today. 2. Why is it important for Latter-day Saint families to take advantage of the Seminary program? L. D. S. Institutes on college level?. What was unique about the education of Joseph Smith? 4. How can Latter-day Saints best keep growing intellectually and spiritually? 5. Discuss the gospel as a "schoolmaster." 860 SACRED LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES =e BESIDE STILL WATERS—Hamblen.25 — BLESS THIS HOUSE—Brahe..........25 = BRIDGE BUILDER—Dougall...........20 saa CONSIDER THE LILIES—Scott.........22 a GLORY TO GOD—Bach-Wilson.....25 - GOD SHALL WIPE AWAY ALL TEARS—Roma.20 ae GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND—Stickles...........22 ol HALLELUJAH CHORUS—Handel.....22 x. HOLD THOU MY HAND—Briggs.....20 Lal HOW LOVELY ARE THE MESSENGERS—Mendelssohn.........12 a. IF YE LOVE ME KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen.........20 a IF WITH ALL YOUR HEARTS—Mendelssohn............220002 15 The above is only a small listing of the sacred music we carry for womens' voices. Try us for your requirements in this line. Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as yourorder blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. [J On Approval (0 Charge 0 Money Enclosed Name Address City & State mmm on 15 E. Ist South (45 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO® Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1958 6. What educational standards are given in the 13th Article of Faith? 7- Discuss John 8:32 "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." Supplementary References 1. Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, Josern F.. Smiru, chapter 19, pp. 342- 35a 2. Gospel Ideals, Davin O. McKay, chapter 32, page 429. 3. Latter-day Prophets Speak, chapter 39, page 396. 4. "Values Derived From _ Reading Worthwhile Literature," Tuomas C. Romney, The Relief Society Magazine, February 1957, page go. 5. "Habits of Industry and Abundant Life for Children and Parents,'"' MADELINE B. Wirtuuin. The Relief Society Magazine, July 1957, page 420. 6. "Imperative for Youth: Stay in School," National Parent-Teacher, June 1957> Page 27- 7. "A Reading Lesson for Worried Parents," Lronarp J. BucHNErR, National Parent-Teacher, September 1957, page 20. 8. "Our Son Likes Books—We Planned It That Way," Puytiis G. Sricatt, National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 2B. G. "Gifted Children," Paul Witty, National Parent-Teacher, December 1957, page 14. 10. "College: A Grade School Decision," Nancy C. Wimmer, National Parent-Teacher, September 1957, page 24. 11. "Dig That Dictionary," CHARLES W. Fercuson, National Parent-Teacher, May 1957, page 4. 12. "Can We Predict a Child's Intelligence?" Nancy Bay ey, National ParentTeacher, December 1957, page 22. 13. "Education Beyond High School," Supt. Of Documents, U. S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 25 cents. 14. "A College Where New Careers Begin at Sixty-Five," Witu1am S. Dutton, National Parent-Teacher, January 1958, page 14. LESSON DEPARTMENT 861 NOW TWO for ONE FOR THE SPEAKER or TEACHER An unlimited variety of choice, interesting material 1. THE BEST OF GORDON OWEN A collection of the best articles from his TV and Radio Programs 2. EAT AND BE MERRY (More than 400 entertaingly funny stories all in excellent taste) The Regular Price $3.50 NOW (while the supply lasts) ONLY $2.50 for both postpaid Send your order to: Gordon Owen 1534 Yale Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY TOUR Eight-Day Tour Includes Tournament of Roses Parade Write about our Mexican Tour, European Tour, and also for the Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour for 1959. For further details write or phone: MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909, AM 2-2337, CR 7-6334 THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY @ COSTUMES FOR ALL OCCASIONS @ COSTUME FABRICS AND TRIMMING @ HEADQUARTERS FOR AMERICAN FLAGS Please write or phone them at their NEW LOCATION. THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 1701 South 11th East Salt Lake City 5, Utah Phone IN 7-9494 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles ooo... We eecesceee =35 150 to 300 miles oo... Eeeeeeee 39 300 to 600 miles 45 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles 2... Eee.64 1400 to 1800 miles 0... 76 Over 1800 miles.000.0.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah (Z4|\COI|NIT I > \y ae cogil our flattering full length fe Delectable daintiness in easy care, long wearing nylon Classic V-neckline and full cut, comfortable sleeves. Soft pink, blue, yellow, green or lilac. 32-46 ZCMI LINGERIE Downstairs Store Mail orders to: Quan. Ist Color Znd Color Size Check or M0, Name..... Address Include 20¢ postage for first gown, 7¢ each additional, Utah residents odd 2% state tax. MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following Nylon Gowns at 2.98: City a=... Oat {: } snseeeens LOMO ese SHOE oo. Sserseeee A. RELIEF SOCIETY PINS: A-1. Double gold-filled (1/10 10 kt.), polished back, solid gold safety catch $5.50 A-2. Gold-filled (1/10 10 kt.) $3.75 B. BRACELET: Gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) $6.75 C. NECKLACES: Heavy chain necklace, gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) $9.75 Gold-filled (1/20 12 kt.) light chain necklace $6.00 All prices include (Pendant on both necklaces is double gold-filled.), pceephita surrounding Salt Lake Valley, while the lily bulbs provided life-sustaining food. Thus combining beauty and service, the lily seems an especially appropriate symbol to represent the high ideals and impressive history of the Relief Society. The outline form of a single Sego Lily, the phrase "Charity Never Faileth," and the founding date have been incorporated in a beautiful set of jewelry, designed for the Relief Society by the artists and craftsmen of the world's largest custom jewelers—The Balfour Company. Mail orders direct to: GENERAL BOARD - RELIEF SOCIETY, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah (oe In pioneer days, the flowers of the Sego Lily festooned the foothills SPECIAL! SPECIAL! 1959 TOUR TO EUROPE IN JUNE Write for itineraries for the European, Hawaiian, and Historic Train Tours. Get your reservations early as groups will be limited. For further information Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 Page 864 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. MarcareT JAMES San Fernando, California Ninety-nine Mrs. Mary Carpon MErrILL Preston, Idaho Mrs. Hitpa ANDERSON ERICKSON Grantsville, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Exiza T. NELson Glendale, California Ninety-three Mrs. Harriet FULLER STACK Mesa, Arizona Ninety-two Mrs. LouvisA HamMMonpD ALLEN Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Mary NIELSEN SwENSON Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Marcaret Benson WILLIAMS Hyrum, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Erra Conrap McAFFEE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaBETH THOMAS SHAW Los Angeles, California Ninety Mrs. Exiza Cook JACKSON Provo, Utah Mrs. Anna LAarsEN NELSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CATHERINE O. DANIELS Malad, Idaho Mrs. Louisa Asecc Done Tucson, Arizona Mary R. CAMPBELL PRATT Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marian RosALige BEARDALL Salt Lake City Mrs. Dora REICHE WILCKEN Salt Lake City Mrs. Luretta Wuitrney KIMBALL Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marcaret EMMA PryrE Howarp Salt Lake City, Utah 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah GIVE '? BOOKS — THIS CHRISTMAS Gifts that keep on giving, year after year 1. He That Liveth Doyle L. Green This glowing, appealing interpretation— written especially for youth by the Managing Editor of The Improvement Era— gives fuller truth and meaning to the parables, miracles, and teachings of the Saviour. Ten magnificent masterpieces by famous Danish Painter, Carl Henrik Bloch, accompany. 3.25 2. A Century of Singing J. Spencer Cornwall Here's the most complete story ever told about the 111-year-old Tabernacle Choir, written by J. Spencer Cornwall, director from 1935 to 1957. It sparkles with amusing anecdotes, highlights the many tours and concerts and broadcasts, and gives brief biographies on all choir leaders and organists. Profusely ae iN pe 3.95 4 ( AW GK a LK "Book Co. 7 I 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 4 | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) I have an account. Please | charge. Amount enclosed $ for encircled (numbered) books: 1 7 Name PSa Pe NOCOe eg IRE EN eet 0S aa 2 ae Rea eee Pe MR EPS UE ALE, SALE Oe A Sa ep ree AEE On Se CAS City Zone State BAL Os AEG aan Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Inco erga ace) aes re as le illustrated. Gentlemen: 4 ll | ' 5k t + x '"'TREES OF * a TREATS'' FROM lon Ss 4,, aps J Py el La? = x' sugar Christmas trees and sweet treats... Both traditional symbols of a happy Holiday Season. Cookies and candies, fruit cakes, cranberries, and whipped cream-topped pumpkin pie... What family doesn't enjoy them? Be sure and include U and I Sugar on your Holiday grocery list. It's as fine a sugar as money can buy. Available in 5-, 10-, and 25-pound bags or in handy 1-pound cartons.
