Volume 51 Number 1 January 1964 Lessons for April Happy Now Year Hi apry New Year to each and all! A glad, prosperous year ahead is our wish for you. Success in your undertakings, happiness in your homes,. Peace in your lives, and joy in your souls is our prayer for you. Faith in great abundance, a deep, abiding testimony, a motivating desire for greater spirituality, a stirring longing for gospel knowledge is our hope for you. "Lift up your hearts and be glad, for I am in your midst, and am your advocate with the Father; and it is his good will to give you the kingdom." This great promise given by the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a promise to the worthy who are willing to work in his kingdom. The Lord speaks of the gospel as the '"'voice of gladness" and as "glad tidings of great joy." His instruction "that ye are chosen out of the world to declare my gospel with the sound of rejoicing" gives us the realization that only in righteous living is there true happiness and cause for rejoicing. How full of joy our lives are meant to be! Yet joy and happiness are of our own making. The secret of happiness lies within us. Some do not understand that to possess happiness one must pay the price in loving kindness, in devoted service, and in uplifting goodness. All of us have experienced failures and have made mistakes. Let us bury them in the unretraceable past, keeping only the wisdom derived from such experiences to guide our future. The New Year will be prosperous and happy if we make it so. The first day of the calendar year is one of the oldest of festivals. Its celebration is well-nigh universal. Dear sisters all over the world, as you celebrate the New Year, as is your custom, remember that our beloved Relief Society binds us together in a great, loving sisterhood. Its organization under the inspiration of our Father in heaven was for this purpose and to make us "one" in his service. The New Year is rich in the promise of glorious opportunities. Let us make the most of them! Affectionately, meta Ee nk mee was printed, and my mother always took the Woman's Exponent, so it is needless to say how much I appreciate the publication. It is part of my life. I have had responsibility in Relief Society almost all my adult life. [ appreciate the wonderful articles and sermons in the Magazine. The poetry and stories are excellent. I have a little slogan that I think applies to Relief Society: There's a wealth of satisfaction in a labor well done, and a sense of great achievement when many work as one. —Mrs. Janette Crapo Miller St. Anthony, Idaho Truly The Relief Society Magazine is a missionary in very deed. It has opened the door for me into conversations which have led into wonderful gospel discussions with those of other faiths on many occasions. —Ethel Lewis Ogden, Utah I must thank you for the wonderful article in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, by Mary M. Ellsworth, "A Message to Young Mothers," a most inspiring and practical article which my friends and I have enjoyed. —Mrs. Claren Jorgensen Corte Madera, California Thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. They are so pretty, with their colors, that they put sunshine into my days. After we finish our lessons on the Doctrine and Covenants, I hope we can study another of our standard works. —Patricia A. Leader Troy, Montana I am especially impressed with "A Message to Young Mothers," by Mary - Ellsworth in the October issue of The going to try hard to follow the counsel given in this article. Thanks to Sister Ellsworth for the profound she displays in this article. Her lovely the article on "Troning Out the Wrinkles," i —Joan Garrard Oakland, California Many thanks for The Relief Society Magazine and Mary M. Ellsworth for "Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue. Most of us try to grasp and absorb fragments of wisdom to help us over our trying times, but these fragments are sometimes hard to find and to call to mind when we really need them. So here we have been given a whole storehouse of practical help which I, for one, am going to keep in front of me to memorize and draw upon when the need arises. —Nina Panes Scarborough Ontario, Canada I wish it were possible for the sisters who write all the wonderful things in our Magazine to visit the Relief Societies and let us meet them. Our Magazine could not Possibly be the help and inspiration it is to sO many mothers, old and young, if it were not for our wonderful sisters who are Planning for our benefit. To me the Magazine is a messenger, bringing a message of courage, help, and good will. —Lola B. Walker Monterey, California Relief Society Magazine. I am Rl PPPS. Ol aie The Relief Society Magazine VOLUME 51 JANUARY 1964 NUMBER 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 1 Happy New Year! General Presidency 4 Purpose of the Relief Society Joseph Fielding Smith 6 John Fitzgerald Kennedy 8 Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 9 The First to Go — First Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey 10 Verdure — Second Prize Poem Hazel Loomis 11 Quo Vadis? — Third Prize Poem Margery S. Stewart 13 Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest 14 Moment of Trust — First Prize Story Mary Ek Knowles 25 The New March of Dimes The National Foundation 35 What Is a Work Meeting Leader? Sylvia Lundgren Fiction 20 Carol's Christmas Adelle Ashby 29 The Lost Star Hazel K. Todd 43 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 7 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 2 From Near and Far 25 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 26 Editorial: The Day of the Lamanite Marianne C. Sharp 28 Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of the 1963 Magazines 50 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 80 Birthday Congratulations The Home -inside and Out 87 Playtime Recipes Janet W. Breeze 88 Ear Huggers Are Nice Shirley Thulin 40 Stretching the Food Budget — Part IV — Dried Beans Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris 42 Della Gleed's Hobby Is Making Gifts Lessons for April 57 Theology — Missionary Service Roy W. Doxey 62 Visiting Teacher Message — 'Wherefore, Be Not Weary in Well-Doing"' Christine H. Robinson 64 Work Meeting — Planning the Family Wardrobe Virginia F. Cutler 66 Literature — Sinclair Lewis, American Self-Satirist Briant S. Jacobs 72 Social Science — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Ariel S. Ballif Poetry Give Me These, by Elsie F. Parton, 5; Exile, by Gilean Douglas, 49; First Heartaches, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 79; Camoes, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 79; Precious Moment, by Verda P. Bollschweiler, 79. The Cover: Winter in Grand Canyon, Arizona, by Claire W. Noall, lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press; Frontispiece: Snow and Shadows, by Harold M. Lambert; Art Layout by Dick Scopes; Illustrations by Mary Scopes. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1963 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Purpose of the Relief Society President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] As I stand here looking into your faces, this brings to me wonderment, and I wonder if the Prophet Joseph Smith saw in vision the sight that I am beholding here this morning. On the 17th day of March, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith met with a number of the sisters of the Church in Nauvoo and organized them into a society which was given the name of "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Besides the appointment of officers, the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters general instructions, quoting from The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. The detailed instruction of this opening session was not recorded, but it had to do primarily with the responsibility devolving upon the sisters of the Church in the care of the poor, the sick, and the afflicted. That this organization was by revelation, there can be no doubt. This truth has been abundantly demonstrated throughout the years and today its value and necessity are abundantly attested. No bishop in the Church could carefully and efficiently care for the many wants of his ward without the help that comes from this wonderful organization. 4 In his journal, March 24, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote that he again met with the Relief Society. The record states that there was a very "numerous attendance."' On this occasion the Prophet pointed out in some detail the purposes of the organization, saying that knowledge of the pure principles of humane, philanthropic benevolence could flow continuously from _ the bosoms of the sisters in behalf of strangers, the distressed, the widows and orphans, and make their hearts rejoice. He said: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of the persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a less_ barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC IV, 567-68). From this humble start under the most difficult conditions, when the membership of the Church was small, we have seen this Society grow until it spreads over most of the civilized countries of the world. The good that has been accomplished in the care of the poor, care of the sick and the afflicted, and those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual need, will never correctly be known. This, however, need not be our concern. The main interest lies in the fact that all of this has been accomplished through the spirit of love in accordance with the true spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is clear to see that without this wonderful organization, The Church of Jesus PURPOSE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY Christ of Latter-day Saints never could have been completely organized. We, the Brethren of the Church, honor and respect our good sisters for their unselfish devotion to this glorious cause. We stand to lend encouragement and in every way possible to lend assistance where assistance is required for the success of the Relief Societies of the Church. Our prayers ascend in your behalf. May the spirit of the Lord be with you always to buoy you up and give you strength and courage in this wonderful department of the Church, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen. Give Me These Elsie F. Parton Give me a pen, the ardent pen of hope, That | may write no word of doubting fear, That weak men may be strengthened in their trust And strong men stand convincing and sincere. Oh, give to me the fallen crumbs of faith That lie unheeded on the marbled floor, That | may mold them into firmer shape And give them power, greater than before. Give me a pen, the ardent pen of hope, That glowing words may rouse some weary mind And light the flames of courage in some breast When hopeless eyes have made the vision blind. Oh, give to me the scattered crumbs of hope That | may place them in a crystal bowl And find in each, a gleaming ray of light To brighten and enrich the downcast soul. Give me a pen engraved with charity, That | may write with eloquence my part And give to men a symphony of love, A joyful melody within the heart. Give me a spacious world that | may plant In fertile soil, the leaven of these three, Where men may reap the fruitage of these vines— Strong faith, firm hope, and boundless charity. On Friday, November 22, 1963, while riding in an open car in Dallas, Texas, President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, age forty-six, was shot and fatally wounded. His young wife Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy was in the car with him. President Kennedy, a native of New England, and son of a distinguished and closely knit family, was of Irish descent, the first Roman Catholic to become President of the United States, and the youngest man ever to preside as Chief Executive. His untimely and tragic death cast sorrow across many nations as leaders of the Free World grieved for their departed champion. A sad symbol of lost leadership was the riderless horse which followed the caisson in the processions of the final rites. Mrs. Kennedy, thirty-four, mother of two living children, Caroline, six, and John F. Kennedy, Jr., three, evidenced great devotion, selfcontrol, and courage of a high order during the days of mourning and the final rites. She walked behind the flag-draped casket on its journey from the White House to St. Matthew's Cathedral, as did some other members of the family and the visiting heads of States. At the graveside she lighted a torch which is to burn perpetually at the head of the grave. Immediately following the announcement of President Kennedy's death, President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints issued a statement for the Church: "IT am deeply grieved and shocked beyond expression at this tragedy. In behalf of the Church in all the world I express sincere sympathy to Mrs. Kennedy and children and all of the close relatives and friends. The entire nation feels a sense of humiliation that such a tragedy could come to a President of the United States. Only a few weeks ago it was our privilege to entertain the President and now to think that he has gone we are stunned as well as shocked. It is terrible to think that such a tragedy could occur in this age of the world. Our prayers go in sincere and earnest appeal to the Almighty that he will comfort the nation in this hour of tragic grief." President McKay appointed First Counselor Hugh B. Brown to represent the Church at the funeral services in Washington, D. C. In Salt Lake City, Utah, the Tabernacle Choir presented with beauty and solemnity a memorial concert, and, on the day of the funeral, President N. Eldon Tanner presided at a moving and impressive memorial service in the Tabernacle. Vice President Lyndon Baines Johnson of Texas took the oath of office an hour anda half after the death of President Kennedy, an impressive demonstration of the wisdom of the Founding Fathers in their provision for continuity of office in the Presidency of the United States. Former Presidents of the United States, Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower attended the services and diplomatic representatives and heads of States from ninety-two nations. The body of President Kennedy was laid to rest in Arlington National Cemetery, across the Potomac, not far from the Lincoln Memorial and the sad and brooding statue of the Great Emancipator. President Kennedy's statement of courage and patriotism voiced in his Inaugural Address, less than three years before, was many times repeated: "Ask not what your country can do for you, but rather ask what you can do for your country." THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1963 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15,1963. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The First to Go." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Hazel Loomis, Casper, Wyoming, for her poem "Verdure." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Margery S. Stewart, Pacific Palisades, California, for her poem "Quo Vadis." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Bailey appears for the fifth time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Loomis is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Stewart is a third-time winner. There were 330 poems entered in the contest for 1963. Entries were received from thirty-six of the fifty states, including Hawaii, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Oregon, and Washington. England, Canada, Australia, Wales, Scotland, and Peru were also represented among the entries. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. 8 FIRST PRIZE POEM The Valiant on has gone ahead, alone, Against all wisdom, Out beyon e known, ince Adam q W the first Cold, Mortal] breath And drank. Which yields b ife and death —_ e first to € Or feel, the first to know © answer t Some quest, the first to go riven by Some dream, Some will to learn, long some path Which ave no return, hat boo he require at Priceless lures re greater than his life, that © endur © desert' tching thirst, he arctic's Ce, © scorn of ned Ones, the Sacrifice edication? T is so? Is Urns in ful] his Precious Oil of time? Ibed its girth, dragon belt. Ars where his Sons have knelt, nd raiseg his nation's fla UPon the Poles, » Tarther &0als. Down tradition's i And looked w; Hazel Loomis SECOND PRIZE POEM So small between the pink pearls The fire opal clouds and the mare's tail swishing high, | ran barefoot in the curling sands. Every part of me was Sabbath then. Praise rose from the flesh — cool shadows Fanning sun... The bleeding currant bushes Where | came To mother's singing steps. Father close on prophet wheels, Blue dancing from his eyes To pleasant sheets of green... Falling in swathes With each purring round. | ran, the sun safe in my arms, To father's chuckling boost on Jetta's back Fast strapped —! Now was Sweeper of the Sky Chief Rider of the Dappled Mare! The lamb — soft days with Jetta — She was lute and David — Jubilee Of hooves and hair — of clinging mane — my horse And f lived there. Time wore ribbons as | swung From cliff to cliff Below the green valley where weasels raced, Snakes grew long, and dragon flies Fanned willow fronds. Four fingers young. | wrote my name And sifted rocks the ants had made. | watched The stovepipe for the reindeer swoop. Awaited The lingering orange and the doll with hair. The world grew and |, too, With barns stuffed green — With cows and buckets and milk foam Washing the golden paths. Night came purring on lion's feet — until A coyote's siren ripped the shrouds apart And morning broke as bulls locked horns To fight it out on crimson sod, While | stood puny on the green lawn. Ample squaws with smiling teeth And midnight eyes Clothed in blankets striped with fire, came And going carried the sun... The stars... And me To the slender road... Up the giant hill.... Farewell, my green and gallant freedom Farewell. Margery S. Stewart THIRD PRIZE POEM They say that Peter Fleeing his cross, Plodding through midnight On the Appian Way, Was halted by an angel, Who asked gently, "Quo Vadis? Quo Vadis, Peter?' and the words Made a gate. When | was a child Pondering this story | was resolute, No two words would keep me Or hold me from going Where the cross was not, Would send me to the Irrefutable hammer and the Splintering wood. With all my childish strength | leaned down years Urging Peter on, past angel, Past anguish... Slow blood Rusting on the nails.. Oh, hurry, hurry, Peter! What manner of angel Brings a riddle at the hour Of one's death? But | have learned That all disciples come Soon or late To that same midnight and The angel's cry... Even | Most shabby follower. Quo Vadis is a gate Opening to a touch... To where? To what? Without him what way is there? Peter's answer was his turning back. 11 JANUARY 1964 Ace Morrey BAILey, a versatile and gifted writer, has been a repeated winner in the Relief Society literary contests. She won first prize in the short story contest the year of its initiation, 1942, and has won three times in subsequent years. This year's award in poetry places Mrs. Bailey as a winner for the fifth time. Other poems (many of them frontispieces), as well as stories, articles, and three serials of hers have appeared in the Magazine. Mrs. Bailey is a member of the Sonneteers (a poetry workshop), the Utah Poetry Society, and the League of Utah Writers, in which she has served as chapter president and a member of many executive committees. She has been a judge in several literary contests and a featured speaker at various conventions. Her many other talents and abilities include sculpture, music, painting, secretarial and administrative work, and nursing. Mrs. Bailey's Church work has included positions in all the women's auxiliaries. She is the wife of DeWitt Bailey, and they have three children and twelve grandchildren. Fl azei Loomis, a well-known Wyoming author, has been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by many outstanding poems. She was born in Verdure, Utah, and grew up in Monticello. She attended Brigham Young University as well as other universities. Mrs. Loomis has been twice married. Her first husband was killed in an accident, and she is now married to Ray Loomis, a chemical engineer, who has a son in the graduate school at Denver University. Mrs. Loomis is an active member of the Casper Writers Club, and is interested also in music and art. Her writings have appeared in magazines of National circulation, and she writes short stories and plays, as well as poems. Active in positions of leadership in the Church, Mrs. Loomis is at present the stake literature class leader in Relief Society and is also a Sunday School teacher. Miarcery S. Stewart, a former Utahn, now lives in Pacific Palisades, California, where she is actively engaged in Church work and in literary activities. Her daughter Sandra Phelps and five grandchildren live nearby, and a son Russell Stewart, Jr. Is a student at Santa Monica City College. A former member of the League of Utah Writers, and a present member in absentia of the Sonneteers, Mrs. Stewart is affiliated with the Ina Coolbrith Poetry Circle of California and recently won first prize in their annual contest. She also writes plays and articles. Mrs. Stewart has been represented in The Relief Society Magazine by frontispiece poems, articles, stories, and several excellent serials. She has won awards twice in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, and three times in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Her work has appeared in poetry anthologies, in magazines of National circulation, and she has achieved high rating in many contests. Mrs. Stewart expresses her love of literature as a continuing joy: "I have enjoyed the associations I have gained through writing and the constant challenge and delight of this form of expression." 12 Tue Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1963 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1963. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Moment of Trust."' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story "Mama Lives in the Kitchen." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, for her story "Someone to Cheer for Johnny." The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. Awartl winners | ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1964. Seventy-three stories, the largest number ever submitted, were entered in the contest for 1963, including submissions from Canada, Australia, Wales, and England. Mrs. Knowles is a fifth-time winner in the contest; Mrs. Littke is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Dean is a fourth-time winner. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 13 Vioment ce Trust Mary Ek Knowles First Prize-Winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Bup came to Donna while she was fixing Patti's hair in rollers and listening to her read from the third grade reader. He asked, "Mom, can you let me have five bucks tomorrow?" Donna had hoped that this moment would not come. She was aware of her son towering over her, tall and handsome with his brown eyes and crew cut. Bud was only sixteen but he had always acted quite adult and sensible—until he fell in love with pretty Candy Thompson. "Five dollars!" she cried, stalling for time, wishing that Sheldon was not in Portland on business. He would handle this problem calmly. She was inclined to become emotional. Her head was already beginning to ache. 'Whatever for, Bud?" "The Spring Hop is tomorrow night and I'm broke." There was almost a note of surprise in Bud's voice. Donna remembered that for over a month, ever since Bud 14 earned fifteen dollars helping Mr. Brown move to his new hardware store, both she and Sheldon had been warning him, ''Remember to save your money for the big dance." And she remembered with a hot rush of anger the way Bud had said casually, "Ah, don't worry, Mom. I know what I'm doing," as he continued to spend and spend money on _ popular Candy. Now she said firmly, "Your father and I warned you that if you spent your money foolishly, you would have to take the consequences." "But, Mom!" his voice cracked a little. "Things came up...." "Like malts and hamburgers at Hoddy's," she interrupted, "and sessions at the bowling alley and two trips to the city." "But, Mom, if you want to keep a popular girl like Candy, you have to show her a good time!" She remembered that this was ud is so Completely daffy about her that he's knocked off -_ his even keel, Donna Worried. "You Won't let me have the Maybe Candy ould never date five bucks, then?" IM agai > and Bud __ e€ had "No, Bud." € turned her 4 Ways taken discipline like a head becaus She Could not Stand man, but this was different. No O see the hite Stricken look on Is face, and there as a Ing in her f, Vv ave to Suffer because of him. Orehead. "T've t € finished the Sot to get five bucks "Off to b Somewhere!" The last roller, d, darling " she Said. Re was despera- "Did I read al] right, Mommy?" fion in hj Voice as he Walked out she asked. Of the room. Ou read beautifully» She atti asked, "] n't Bud going kissed her smal] daughter, think. 0 take Candy to the dance?" Ing how UNComplicated Were "He Can't, Patti has Spent Problems With a NINe-year-old all of his Money," "But, Mo » Vandy has 4 Ir was after eleven When she new dress for the ance. Joy told Went to bed, but she couldn' me," Was Candy's Me-year. €ep. Once she almost JANUARY 1964 Sheldon in Portland, but he would not relent, either. They had always been firm with Bud, knowing he was in that difficult age where he was constantly testing them, demanding more and more that they give in to him, yet unconsciously, inconsistently, hoping they wouldn't give in, so that in a world where true values are taken lightly, he could depend on their unshakeable discipline. At breakfast Bud looked so worried that her heart ached for him. She wanted desperately to give him the money. What was five dollars! But she knew it wasn't the money involved. He must take the consequences of his mistakes to become a mature, responsible adult. Bud got up from the table and a few minutes later when she lifted the receiver to telephone her grocery order, she heard him talking to Freddie Smith. She heard Freddie say, "'So I charge high interest!" The gang resented Freddie. They called him Shylock because he demanded his pound of flesh for each penny loaned. Bud was really desperate if he would appeal to Freddie for a loan! Mrs. Olafson, the cleaning woman, came then and Donna went with her to the basement to give instructions. When she came back upstairs, Bud had his jacket on. He said, ''Mom, listen. I..." And then Mrs. Olafson called from the basement. Donna went to the top of the stairs to 16 see what she wanted, and when she returned Bud was gone. She was extremely busy after that. She was in the presidency of the Relief Society, and she called the members of the luncheon committee in regards to the opening luncheon and social. At eleven she was going to the ward to quilt, and so she prepared an oven meal for dinner, but busy or not, all the time she was hurrying and working she _ worried about Bud. How would he handle the situation with Candy! Sue was quilting when she discovered her coin purse was missing. Marge Griffin asked if someone had change for a dollar. Donna said, "I have twenty dollars worth of change," and reached into her black leather bag. There was no coin purse. She began a frantic search, taking everything out of the large bag. Marge said, 'Never mind. Sister Stacey has it."' Donna said, "Oh... Fine."'? And she sat there, a sinking feeling in the pit of her stomach, retracing her movements since the day before. She had gone to town and shopped. As she neared home she remembered that the cleaner would be returning Sheldon's slacks. She had stopped at Carter's grocery store and had the twenty dollar bill changed. She could remember hastily cramming the bills and small change into her large coin purse. The cleaner had driven up just as she stopped the car. She had paid him a dollar bill and forty cents. Then she had gone into the house, carried her handbag to the bedroom. Then Sister Landley had telephoned to ask the name of the poem that the stake Relief Society president had read at the monthly leadership meeting. Donna could see herself carrying the bag into the hallway, placing it on the table, and taking out the slip of paper on which she had written the name and author of the poem. She had left the bag there while she had checked a book of poems in the library to see if she had that particular poem. The purse was still on the hallway table until she left this noon. She thought, Bud would have seen it when he telephoned Freddie. The contents were tumbled about, the money quite visible in the transparent plastic coin purse. But Bud would never steal from me! She quickly pushed the thought out of her mind, horrified at such disloyalty. But where was the coin purse! Her handbag was one of the new, large carry-all type, with straps, open at the top. Her arms had been loaded with bundles. Maybe after she paid the cleaner she had thought she was dropping the coin purse into her handbag, but instead had dropped it on the ground. Sue hurried from the ward to her home, and once there she looked carefully from the curb to MOMENT OF TRUST the front steps but found nothing. And then, as she took her door key out of her handbag, she remembered seeing the plastic coin purse in her handbag when she had gone through the same motions the day before. Maybe, absent-mindedly, once she was in the house, she had put the purse somewhere else. She began a thorough search through drawers, coat pockets, jackets, cupboards, the linen closet. She pushed back her dark hair with a trembling hand. Maybe her memory was playing tricks. She could have thought she put the coin purse in her bag, but instead had left it at Carter's. She could even have paid the cleaner with loose change from the bottom of her handbag. She hurried out and walked the half block to the store. Mrs. Carter distinctly remembered her putting the coin purse in her bag. It had been a crazy hope. She had known all the time she had paid the cleaner with loose change from the coin purse in her handbag. She walked slowly home. Candy Thompson came towards her. Candy was so young and pretty with her glossy blond hair and blue eyes. "Mrs. Gardner," she said gaily, "will you please tell Bud to call for me at seven tonight? We're going to double date with Betty and Archie." "T'll tell him, Candy." Donna smiled stiffly and hurried home, afraid she was going to burst into tears, remembering Bud saying 7 JANUARY 1964 desperately, "I've got to get five bucks somewhere!" But if he did succumb to temptation, he would only take five dollars, not the coin purse. But maybe there hadn't been time to do anything but grab the purse. Could he have hastily hidden it somewhere? She went to Bud's room. Her heart sank when she saw the closet in confusion, as if things had been hastily moved to find something, or to hide something. She had always respected her children's privacy, but now she searched everywhere for the purse, hating herself. Finally, trembling with exhaustion, she gave up, went to her room, and sank down on the bed. The evidence against Bud confronted her and she cried quietly. It was her fault Bud was a thief. She should have let him earn the money. The attic needed cleaning. There were any number of jobs he could have done. She heard the front door open and Bud's and Patti's voices. Should she accuse Bud? Or would he admit the theft on his own? What had he wanted to tell her this morning? She heard music. She walked slowly down the stairs. In the hallway below Bud was teaching Patti to dance, counting patiently, his big feet slowed to her small ones. Donna reached the foot of the stairs, her throat tightening. Patti cried, ""Look, Mom, Bud is teaching me to dance!" 18 Bud laughed, "Me a dancing teacher!" How could he be so gay! Better get the matter over with now. She said thickly, "Bud, I want to talk to you." He stopped dancing, "Yeah, Mom?" She began, "Bud, how could.." and then she looked at her son with his wide grin, with his clean freckled face, his honest face, and shame washed over her. Bud was not a thief! Even with all the evidence against him, she did not believe it! She knew then that this was the moment of trust that all parents know at least once in their lifetime. That moment when overwhelming evidence is cast aside in favor of love and trust and blind faith.... Bud asked, 'You sick or something, Mom? Got a headache? Want an aspirin?" She stammered, "There isn't any. I have to...." She stopped. But there was a whole box of aspirin on her bedside table! She had had a headache and had made a quick trip in the car to Wight's drugstore just before she went to bed. She had taken her coin purse out of her bag, slipped it into the pocket of her coat! Her worry about Bud had completely driven the incident out of her mind. Her coat pocket was shallow. Could the purse have fallen out unnoticed on the seat? She turned and ran out the back door. Bud called, "Mom! Where are you going? I want to tell you something important." She opened the car door, felt along the front seat, her hand trembling. It was when she opened the other door that she saw the coin purse. It had slipped off the end of the seat onto the floor next to the door. Fortunately, she hadn't had occasion to open that door or it would have fallen out. She _ leaned against the car, her legs shaking. "You lose something, Mom?" Bud was standing by the car. She looked up at her son, so tall and yet so young, so terribly vulnerable and impressionable. Yes, she had almost lost something precious. If she had failed that moment of trust in her son and had accused him, a bond between them would have been destroyed forever. Maybe Bud had borrowed the money from Freddie and it would take a year's allowance to pay it back, but Bud was not a thief! Bud said, ""Mom, I had to have the money for the dance, and I MOMENT OF TRUST knew you wouldn't give it to me." He grinned. "Old - brick - wall Mom. So I had to use the old brain, you know? I sold my track shoes to Skinny Peters. I almost tore the closet apart finding them. Hope it's okay?" Suddenly Donna's little world, which since yesterday had been spinning crazily, righted itself. Bud had got the money by his own ingenuity. She began to cry with relief. "Well, gosh, Mom, I'd outgrown them!" Still she cried. "Mom, did I say something wrong? I mean, calling you a brick wall? I'm glad you and Dad are like a brick wall, and...." "IT k-know and I'm _ h-happy you sold the sh-shoes and...." "Then why are you crying? Gosh!" "Because I ]-love you and...." Bud shook his head. "Women are sure dopey." "Especially mothers, Bud," she laughed shakily. "Especially mothers."' Mary Ex KNOWLES, Ogden, Utah, is well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Four of her prize-winning stories, as well as other contributions, have previously appeared in the Magazine. She has received recognition from several magazines of National circulation where her stories have been featured. She is a member of the Blue Quill writers' club in Ogden, and a former State President of the League of Utah Writers. After receiving the letter telling her about winning the first prize in the contest, Mrs. Knowles replied: "Since winning the first prize before (1961), many things have happened to me. In August of 1962 my wonderful husband died after a long illness.... Then the following January my dear father died.... But, of course, there is much to be grateful for, my three wonderful children, my adorable grandson and granddaughter, my good friends, and my good health." 19 Carol's Christmas Adelle Ashby '{ AROL sat up and pulled the, quilt around her. She didn't — turn the light on. The glare of it would add a sharpness to the night, a sharpness and an awareness with which she didn't want to have to cope. The hour was late, but it wasn't dark outside. The first snow of the season floated earthward, and the moon was bright. She watched the whiteness grow in depth on the boughs of the gnarled apple tree just outside the window and wanted to be out. She knew the coolness of the winter night would help her separate her thoughts, but she didn't get up. She just sat there, quietly, not wanting to wake Hal. She sat there, remembering his warning and remembering Michael's eyes. Michael's eyes bothered her most. It was too late for Hal's warning, but maybe it wasn't too late to do something about Michael. If she only knew what the look in his eyes was trying to tell her. Sometimes Carol thought he was enjoying the 20 pre-Chnistmas festivities, but whenever she looked in his eyes, she knew he wasn't. And she wanted him to so very much. Sometimes he would look up and almost say something, but the words didn't come. Caro] knew that part of the trouble was his loneliness for his parents, but there was something else... Something dark and deep. It was wrong to force a new kind of Christmas on him, Carol thought, and she could hear Doris say, "Honestly, Carol, you make so much of Christmas! 'There's no need to, you know.... No one does nowadays." Carol pulled the quilt up around her more snugly, and, in so doing, was reminded that even in the everyday things, she hadn't advanced much... Not by most standards, especially those set up by Doris. The bright patches of the quilt shone out in the path of moonlight that played across her bed. She loved the ties, the memories of long ago that the patches brought to her... Oris hey Py, Would have the same kind of a as with Christmas at Christmas With her Pl€s from 4 arol's house. She and Hal had bakery, Cold cuts fro he gtoce always made candy and 8ingerbreag and th Mering, 4 uMinum men, an Poured wax can €s, even Christmas tree with very blue bulb at Was the wo d Doris had used> and never the touch f a child. Uaint "Tt will Just be too Much," Fa] "Quaint," Caro] Tepeated aloud, lad conti ed, ' and Ha] Stirred an et his breath Out in litt]e mumbles. Ued, "nine children! Must be oy You € of your mind to think you can Manage. Tol had Siggled "Nine chil AROL looked at him and Ten!" she mimicked. "Six of smiled. "Dear Hal," she Whispthem are ours, Temember? Yhow, cred, "You shouldn't SPOil me so. If Wish it Te a dozen! » Hal, J you didn't always Jet have m want Susan nd Janet and Michae] Own way, would n Set into some _ to have What w have, Just for one of the thin SI do." € slid down Tistmas, V've never etween the Sheets and slipped Into Popcorn hal] IS arms Then she € What h t made 5 OF gone Christmas tree huntin '+ + OF dipped candles, - ++ It will be °° much fun to teach ut taking Doris' chi] them." mas, "It will be just plain Work." "Honey, you're asking for trou- ' Ul you mind?" ble." "No, Caro], I won't Ind, exce t "Oh, Hal, Teally | It's just for that I do 't want you to wear your. Two wee Doris ang Jim wil] be self 6 t 2 ack the > th. And an't enjo Christmas knowin "Then it's NOWing those three are 80ing to be alone," all settleg Anyway, € childr, know us bette Grace and Daye Only get here once Or They Ouldn't be alone Grace Wice a year And I bey they'll } Offered to take the AS soon as glad they on't have to € the lie told € her her was Worse Ng trip on the Icy roads." and she Would have to 80 home for al had put his hat on then, and OW, it's more her place. -.. She on't knoy, Y you always have to Is Doris' WN Sister, and Ou're,.. " ake on Worries of the Whole 'Tm Just their sister-in-law, _ family, by I know ut they're YOUTr sisters and Our nieces and before their SIX children came alon the holidays, T called Tace. An and every Icicle in jt Proper Place, as he bent to kis her, he ha Said, "J JANUARY 1964 mas, or that the woman they hire will be able to stay." And he had gone out and Carol had begun the preparations. There were beds to change around, and clothing to rearrange to make room in the closets, and more shopping to do with the check Doris had left. Then one evening they went and got the children, and everything had seemed fine. Susan and Janet had been having the time of their lives, with Carol's two girls their age, but Michael.... Carol went to sleep then, with Michael's dark, searching eyes swimming before her. [He next few days were so full of laughter and wrapping and baking and sewing, that Carol didn't have time to think. Hal had been right about all the children being a handful, but for the most part they were well behaved and she really was enjoying them. They popped mountains of fluffy white corn and strung some of it on long red string. They made platters of rich, nutty fudge and crisp amber peanut brittle. They glued yards of red and green paper strips together for chains, and several evenings they bundled up to go around and see the brilliantly lighted homes with animated figures and bells and trees.. And everyone laughed and sang Christmas carols, and talked at once... Everyone but Michael. Carol had been watching him, and hoping that he would come to her, but he didn't, and she knew his hurt had grown too big. One evening she had Hal take some of the children shopping and 22 she put the little ones to bed. And when the shoppers came home they went in separate rooms and shut the doors to wrap their treasures. They stuck more Santa seals on the packages than necessary, and used miles of silver ribbon. But Mike went into the living room and sat alone. Carol went in. He was so still, she hesitated to intrude, but she knew she had to. "Mike... I guess things are pretty hectic around here, aren't they?" "Sorta...." "Is there something you would like to tell me?" "No...." Carol looked at him and felt his word hang heavy in the air. "Tell me about your Christmases. What do you do that you like the very best?" He didn't answer. He just cleared his throat, and she knew he was close to tears. "Tomorrow's the day we go after our tree." Carol knew he wasn't really listening, but she went on anyway. "We used to go cut one ourselves, but they won't let us do that any more, so we start out early and visit nearly every place in town where they sell trees, and we stand them up one by one and look at them carefully. It takes us a long time to pick one sometimes, because Uncle Hal likes them tall and lean, and I like them short and fat, and Peggy and Dicky...." HE stopped. She knew Michael was crying... There were no tears, but she knew he was crying inside, where it's worse. She knew he would rather be alone, but she didn't go. Instead she went over to him and put her arm across the back of the couch behind him. "Mike, please, tell me. Are you homesick?" "Sorta." he let the tears come then, and wiped them on the back of his hand. "Tm sorry. Maybe Aunt Grace. "Aunt Carol, do you always buy a green tree?" "Yes." And then she remembered the trees Doris always bought.... "But we don't have to. I mean, we could buy a silver one, and get all blue bulbs and...." "No, please get a green one. Aunt Carol, are green trees old-fashioned?" "T suppose they are...." "Is being old-fashioned bad?" "I... I don't think so. Maybe in some things it is. I mean, it would be pretty silly to keep a horse and buggy when you can have a car... Or it wouldn't be wise not to take the best of the new things, and the best of the old things...." "Mom always says that you.. That you make more work for vourself because you're old-fashioned...." "I guess I do." Carol thought of all the bread and rolls and cakes she always baked, and the quilt tops she stitched and the fruit she canned. "T guess your mother's right, it sure can complicate things, sometimes...." "Aunt Carol." Michael wet his lips and began again. "Do you have a Star for the top of your tree?" "No... Anangel. An angel with long, silvery hair." CAROL'S CHRISTMAS "Mom says that a star should always be on the top of the tree. We made a lot more work for you, didn't we?" "You mean by coming here? Goodness, no. I wanted you. Aunt Grace was coming for you, but I wouldn't let her." "Really?" "Really. I kinda thought.... I hoped you'd like to make popcom balls and ornaments and... But I guess all that is pretty silly, isn't it?" "Aunt Carol, may I hang a couple of bulbs on the tree?" "You may do more than that. Uncle Hal always puts the lights on and the children have to do the rest." "All of it? The icicles, too?" "Especially the icicles." "What if we get them all bunched up?" "Who cares? Looks pretty." "With them all bunched up?" "Especially when they re bunched up. AROL left the room then. She said it was time to bathe the other children, but she really had to leave because her throat was tight, and her voice wouldn't act as it should. Maybe it isn't right to rear a child without letting him decorate a tree, but it isn't right to confuse him, either, and that's what she knew she had done. Confused Michael, and filled him full of doubts and questions.... Carol bathed the children and dressed them in soft flannel nightWe think it still 23 JANUARY 1964 clothes and brushed their hair, and wondered what was going on inside Michael. She wondered what he meant by asking about the star. The angel had been in her family for generations, but maybe having a star was important, though she couldn't see why.... Long after everyone was tucked in for the night, and long after she should have fallen asleep, she lay wondering about it and then it came to her. The story of the Wise Men, and the story of the Christ Child. And, along with remembering the story, a shame came over her. Somehow she had become so involved with the cooking and the making, that she had _ forgotten. Quietly, she slipped out of bed and went into the living room and went over to the little table where she kept her books. She found the Bible and turned the pages, and there in the dimly lighted room, she turned to the Christmas story, and then went to Michael's room. He was sitting on the edge of his bed looking out into the night. "Michael...." Softly her words went to him, and he didn't move as he answered her. "What?" "T've been thinking. Know, about the star... "T have, too." "Would you like me to read the story to you?" "You don't have a Bible. I looked in your bookcase, and I couldn't find one. Aunt Carol, could we go get mine? Mom told me to be sure and read the story each night before bedtime like we do at home." "T have a Bible, Michael. Mike, you know about my being old-fashioned? Well, I guess I'm really not old-fashioned enough.... I had forgotten about the very first Christmas." Michael turned on the night light and took the book from Carol. "May I read it?" And as he read the words in hushed tones, Carol knew that it didn't matter what color the Christmas tree was, or if the candles were homemade. It didn't even matter if the children were allowed to put the icicles on the tree, so long as they knew what Christmas was for. So long as they were told the story.. You New Serial to Begin in February A new serial YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING, by Hazel Thomson, of Bountiful, Utah, will begin in the February issue of the Magazine. The setting for the story is picturesque San Bernardino, California, in the early days of its settlement, and presents the dramatic development of Selena Baldwin from a frightened and fearful girl into a woman of strength and courage who contends valiantly against a hostile environment and her own shortcomings. Mrs. Thomson is a gifted and experienced writer whose serial "Because of the Word" delighted the readers of the Magazine in 1961. 24 BELLE S. Spafford, General Presiident of Relief Society, and First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, represented Relief Society at the meetings of the National Council of Women of the United States, in New York City, in October. President Spafford delivered a keynote address at luncheon, on October 9th, in which she emphasized the duties of membership, saying, "... We must see ourselves as a united body of women working together to serve society, equally responsible with our elected officers for the maintenance and_ success of the Council, unique among women's organizations." WMirs. Maria Goeppert Mayer, born in Germany, now an American citizen, shared the 1963 Nobel prize for physics ($51,158) with Dr. Eugene P. Wigner. The only woman _ besides Madame Curie (1903) to win the Nobel physics prize, Mrs. Mayer was honored for research showing that atomic nuclei are built of onionlike layers of neutrons and protons held together by complicated forces. Her theory has explained many nuclear properties. Mrs. Maria Isabel de Atiles Moreu of Puerto Rico won the Lane Bryant individual award for volunteer service and was given $1,000 at the announcement meeting in New York City in November. The award was in recognition of Mrs. Morew's work in establishing rehabilitation centers for handicapped children and adults. Mlle. Denise Legrix of France won the International Volunteer award for her fundraising campaign which resulted in the building of France's first orthopedic center for handicapped children. VALENTINA Tereshkova, the Soviet cosmonette and first woman in the world to make a_ space flight married, on November 2, 1963, Soviet Cosmonaut Andrian Nikolayev, in one of Moscow's two "palaces of marriage." Valentina expects to make more difficult space flights in the future. A Few women, for the first time in history, will be added to the very special group of men permitted to attend the Ecumenical Council of the Catholic Church as lay auditors or delegates, Pope Paul VI has announced. 25 - The Day of the Lamanite The work of the Lord among the Lamanites must not be postponed, if we desire to retain the approval of God. Thus far we have been content simply to baptize them and let them run wild again, but this must continue no longer; the same devoted effort, the same care in instructing, the same organization of priesthood must be introduced and maintained among the house of Lehi as amongst those of Israel gathered from gentile nations. As yet, God has been doing all, and we comparatively nothing. He has led many of them to us, and they have been baptized, and now we must instruct them further, and organize them into churches with proper presidencies, attach them to our stakes, organizations, etc. In one word, treat them exactly, in these respects as we would and do treat our white brethren. (Gospel Kingdom, page 247). These words of President John Taylor, in 1882, are seeing fulfillment today, and, in the instructing, Relief Society women may and are taking a prominent part. The Nephite prophets loved the Lamanites. Enos plead with the Lord that if the Nephites were destroyed and the Lamanites survived, that the Lord would preserve the record of the Nephites ''that it might be brought forth at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might be brought unto salvation.'' Then Enos said, after the Lord covenanted with him to do so ''wherefore my soul did rest."' If mothers in Zion today would have their souls rest, they will heed the teachings of The Book of Mormon and extend toward the Lamanites that charity which never faileth. Our prophets today reveal that now is the time for loving service and guidance to the Lamanites. This generation has been offered this blessing. Relief Society has been asked to be an advocate of the Indians — to foster enlightenment to Indian women, to assist, work with, and encourage them both by teaching and training them. But, as the gift without the giver is bare, so Relief Society members must do all they do in the spirit of true charity. One will recall the wonderful promises made to the Lamanites and strive humbly to be instrumental in the Lord's hand to assist in preparing the Lamanites for their 26 " a Per ia Deer river (resi. "Tt ga) ae "lilige ww aed LT reesispy, ef; the Mountains - +. The fulfillment Of that t believe tha any revelation Of God h ugh there Would n €nough left ¢ ING this dark pj & every Word that Go d by, wj Od t ever re © receive Gospel: bu Notwithstang aS ever Said of them ill have its fulfillment, and 4 Nation Will be a heir lefs wil] € filled with the Power of God a em. (Journal f 'SCourses, 15:2 As President Woo ruff declared, the Promises of the Lorg never fail elief Societ ber resolve in her heart and ac Ourageous| Marvelous work now SPreading in aCCelerateg te ple. A the ©PPortunit m Il FeCeive the Gospe| It will receive the G °d's power among them, ' 4nd the will go + rth ang build the New Jerusalem, and we Shalt help Relief Society 76 ake City, Utah 1] - It is Tecommended that the 1963 aAazines bound for Preseryatj ociety libraries, W Working hard imes Centers in fifty-one Typical of such Centers are the Birth ter at the L l DS, Primary Children's ity, Utah, and the Juvenile Arthrit; Center 4 the Niversity of Utah. In th s er than ever. Nd women contin ts that Strike g newborn child in America the Salk and d paid for through the € are stil] Many Partially op Completely Paraelp and further tehabilitation, in their Search for hope ang help for the child N perfect. Give 8enerously to your 1964 M,. 28 arch of Dimes. T minute of th arch of Dimes e Nation's your treatment centers Hazel K. Todd Wr strange anticipation the welldressed young woman stood alone in the falling snow before the old house in the trees. She had come through the sagging gate, down the snow-filled path where, as a child, her dancing feet had sped. The taxi that had brought her from the airport was rapidly disappearing into the white mist down the country road, taking with it the driver who had raised an eyebrow questioningly as he deposited her expensive luggage at the porch. But how could he know by looking at the old house sleeping there, of the Christmas warmth it had held within its ancient walls! The woman stared at the great carved door. How could she hope to find the something of Christmas she had lost, that used to be here in this silent old house! For the parents who had brought her here as a child were gone, and the grandparents who had hung the great tree with tinsel and angels were gone, too, these twelve years. And she, Joan Mason, an _accomplished dress designer and owner of the old house, alone, was left. For a minute she turned and stared back the way she had come. But the taxi had already disappeared in the mist of falling snow. Slowly she opened her purse and fumbled in it to bring out an ancient key tied with a red string. For a few seconds she gazed thoughtfully at it and then she fitted it into the black lock of the door. It turned easily with the generations of years of experience behind it. The door swung open and she stepped inside. Standing there with her back to the door, her eyes traveled expectantly over the old familiar things as if already the lost essence should sing out, "You are here! At last I am found!" But they were silent, the things she had known, the red plush sofa, the bookcase with its glass doors and its rows of books, the elaborately framed pictures of her ancestors on the wall, the mantel where she had hung her Christmas stockings long ago. In the great fireplace wood lay unkindled. With a warm tingle of old familiarity she turned to the carved bird on the mantel with its match-filled wings. In a few minutes the fire was blazing comfortably. She had hung her wraps in the hall closet and put away the groceries that she had bought in the village on the way. Now she sat before the fire in the old rocking chair where her grandmother had rocked. 29 JANUARY 1964 Vinson would be surprised if he could see her here. She went over again the words she had scribbled so hurriedly on a sudden impulse: Dear Vinc, I won't be able to go on the house party. I hope you'll forgive me. I've gone to find something of Christmas I had once and lost. —Joan She never would have thought of writing the note or of coming, if the letter hadn't arrived in the mail yesterday morning from the Grays, the aged couple who were the caretakers of the old home that had come to her as an inheritance from her grandparents. The letter had simply stated that an unexpected opportunity had come for them to spend the winter in Arizona, and they were enclosing the key. In all the years the old place had belonged to her she had paid no heed to it, except for the checks she mailed for its maintenance. But yesterday, when she opened the letter, the key with the red string unleashed a stream of memories that rushed and tumbled over each other until she wept softly into the folds of the scarf in her hands. She saw her grandfather placing the great log on the fire. She danced around the Christmas tree while they hung it with wonderful treasures from an old brown box, candles with real fire, popcorn, and homemade chains. And the star at the top, a great silver star painted on a smooth board and wound with tinsel and beads. And her grandmother had wrapped it and unwrapped it very carefully each year, because, as she had explained to Joan (who was Joanna then), it represented the 30 Baby Jesus when he was born in Bethlehem. So deep in the midst of clamoring memories was she, that the knocking at the door might well have been her grandfather, his arms filled with the Yule log, demanding admittance. As in a dream, Joan rose and started across the room. Then she halted. This was not her grandfather! Someone to see the Grays. She was about to return to her chair when the knock came again. It roused a curious impulse, and she found herself at the door looking down into the small, heart-shaped face of a child. She was a quaint little girl with long dark braids hanging from a queer little knitted cap with a peaked top. She wore a long gray coat and heavy overboots. In her mittened hand she carried a brightcolored sand pail that might have been from a different world. At sight of Joan the child's brow puckered in a puzzled expression, and she brushed her free hand over her cheek in an odd little mannerism. WJoan looked at the child with curiosity. At least this was something new and different. "Won't you come in?" she asked, still holding the door. The child hesitated. "But where is Mrs. Gray? I wanted her to help me find the star." Joan looked at the bucket, wonderingly. "I am very sorry," she said, "Mrs. Gray isn't here any more." The child's face fell. For a moment Joan thought she was going to cry. Quickly she tried to make amends. "Perhaps — perhaps I could help you." She looked at the bucket again. "Did you say a star?" The little face brightened hopefully, and she smiled, "Oh, didn't you know about the star?" asked in deep surprise. Then, when Joan still looked puzzled, she added so very earnestly, "You know, the Christmas Star, the Jesus. Star. Mrs. People have lost Joan stood a moment staring at the child without saying anything. "She says it must be found again," the little girl continued. Oo. | Suppose it must," Joan whispered slowly. "What did you say?" "Oh, nothing, nothing at all. I was just thinking. That is — | mean perhaps that is what I have Ong coat. "Please come in and sit by the fire. Let me take your coat and cap." The little girl sat on the low stool where she, herself, had sat so many She placed the bucket carefully on the lap of her brown dress. Wheat — what were you going to do with the star?" Joan asked with her eyes on the bucket, The child looked up quickly with frank blue eyes. "If I had a Christmas tree I would hang it at the tiptop where everyone could see jt." Joan struggled with the strange €motions inside her. She gazed at the little girl in wonder, while she searched carefully for words. THE Lost STAR from the sky," the little girl went on, completely unaffected by Joan's silence. Joan looked out the window. The white dusk Was gathering. The short winter day would soon be over. The snow was falling steadily with thick white flakes. What did you do with a strange child with some long-ago charm who wanted you to go in the snow some place to hunt for an imaginary star that had fal- "But maybe Mrs. Piney will not 8° to sleep tomorrow." "Who is Mrs. Piney?" "She takes care of me. She cooks the food and sews my dresses," Joan looked over the drab brown dress buttoned under her chin, at the bulky Stockings, and the oldfashioned coat She had hung over the chair by the fire. And played: knew about important things like the star. "Who are you?" asked the child abruptly. 31 JANUARY 1964 "Oh, I =r come tomorrow!" said the child happily. Then again there was a knock. A half-fearful, startled look crossed the little girl's face, and she turned her stool with her back to the door. Joan arose and walked to the door, half expecting some unreal person to be standing there. It was a man, tall and lean. Yet in his face were the same frank blue eyes as those of the little girl. At sight of her he looked surprised and lifted his snowy hat, displaying dark hair grayed at the temples. "IT beg your pardon," he said apologetically, "but I was looking for a little girl. She comes over here occasionally, even though I have told her she must not bother the Grays." Joan looked at the man, her mind filled with questions. There was no sound from the little girl even though Joan was sure she must have heard. There were drawn lines about the man's eyes and mouth, and Joan thought she detected a hint of bitterness about him. She stepped back from the door. "Please come in," she said. "The Grays are in Arizona. I own this place and I came to — to see about it," she finished lamely. He entered and she saw him stiffen slightly. "There you are, Mitzie," he said quite sharply. "Why did you run away when Mrs. Piney was asleep?" The little girl began to cry then, sobbing, with her tiny face buried in the skirt of her brown dress. "You must come with me at once," the man said quite sternly, crossing to her. 32 Even though the present dilemma was no concern of hers, Joan felt desperately the urge to do something. She put out her hand instinctively. "Please," she said, "do not scold her." And then her face flushed. "I mean, Mitzie was certainly no bother." "She knows she must not run away," the man said, taking her by the hand. "But, Daddy, I wanted to find the star!" Mitzie wept, standing and clinging to her father's leg. Mle put his hand on her head. "Mitzie, you must stop talking such nonsense." He turned to Joan. "I am away a lot," he said. "The woman who takes care of her is old and sentimental." Mitzie let go his leg and held her face in her hands. But he was holding her coat, and she ceased her crying and put her arms resignedly into the sleeves. Joan stood by, confused with the strange drama she had so suddenly found herself a part of, and yet there was something.... "T was thinking," she said, staring at the child in her quaint coat and cap, and then at the man, "that — that perhaps, you, too, have lost the star!" He looked at her with sort of a quizzical weariness. For a moment he hesitated, and then he walked to the door, holding Mitzie's hand. He turned then, with a half-bitter smile flicking the corners of his mouth. "Mitzie's mother died," he said, "seven years ago on Christmas Eve, the night Mitzie was born." They went out the door, then, into call a taxi, She had barely retraced her Steps into the house and reached the Urried to the Cor. But it Was not itzie. It was Mitzie's father, Standing there in the blowing snow, that she had done nothing about Mitzie', Christmas » He looked away into the Snow. "T have never been JANUARY 1964 here on Christmas with her before." His eyes came back. "I hope Mitzie hasn't been worrying you about the star again. She can't seem to get it out of her mind." A sharp intimate fear possessed Joan. "She is not here!" she said. "Not here?" The man looked bewildered. "But it was the only place she could be. I was sure...." Joan felt limp and sick. "If you only knew," she said, "how much I wanted her to come. I.... Oh, please come in." She led him into the room and he stared in amazement. "Tt was for Mitzie," she said. "The star at the top of the tree. It is her star, one I loved when I was a little girl. You see, I, too, had lost the star, lost it in a whirl of parties, and night clubs, and making money, and friends who didn't know true values, and...." She paused and wiped the tears from her eyes. "Mitzie helped me find it. And I wanted her to have it, too, a real Christmas such as she had never known." Sue dropped into the rocker and put her head on the lacy doily of the arm and wept. He stood meekly before her holding his hat. "I have been a heel," he said, "the most inadequate father a child ever had. I have let my own selfish grief deny her both father and mother." He hesitated. "Last night I kept thinking of what you said about my losing the star. And I realized you were right, so I let Mrs. Piney go home for Christmas, and I decided to make Mitzie a real Christmas." Joan was wiping her eyes. 34 "Come!" she said, standing quickly. "We must find her. It is much too cold. Where can we look?" "Only that I think she has gone somewhere to find the star." "In the fields!" Joan said, "She said it must be in the fields!" But it was a hopeless task, wading through the fields in the blowing snow, calling for Mitzie, flashing the light across the stretches of ominous white, while consternation turned to terror. They stopped and faced each other. "We could call the police from your home. It is nearer than mine," he said. Then, as they threw open her door against the wind, they saw Mitzie standing there. She was gazing at the silver star at the top of the tree. As they came rushing forward, she turned to them, her face alight with rapture, completely unaware of the anxiety she had caused. "Look!" she cried, "The Star! I have found the Jesus Star! It is on the top of your tree!" "Yes, Mitzie, darling," her father said in penitent tones, as he gently took the sand pail from her hand and set it on the floor. Then he held the little hand in his own. Joan reached for the other hand. "It is the star we had all three lost, Mitzie. But truly it is only the picture of it. The real Jesus star is in people's hearts." "And we will keep it there forever," Mitzie's father said. Then he walked to the doorway and taking the sprig of mistletoe from it, he carried it back to hang it from a dangling Christmas bell over their heads. What Is a Work Meeting Leader? Sylvia Lundgren i — the innocence of youth and the dignity of mature sisters, we find the delightfully blessed lady called the work meeting leader. Work meeting leaders come from various backgrounds, but all have the same possibilities to teach, inspire, and uphold the standards of the Relief Society and the home, and to enjoy every hour spent in planning and executing the plans, and to protest only with new ideas when one work meeting is completed and the next one comes into view. Work meeting leaders are found everywhere — in department stores, variety stores, antique shops, supermarkets, attics, basements, back yards, kitchens, and even in city dumps. They are planning, always planning how to inspire all members to use their own talents and make the most out of what they have. Presidents love them, counselors counsel with them, chairmen work with them, and husbands and children wonder what they are doing with all that junk. 35 JANUARY 1964 A work meeting leader is beauty with a creative mind, wisdom with glue on her fingers — the hope of the Relief Society, with scissors, needles, and thread in her pockets. When she uses long-range plans, her Relief Society is active and happy with their accomplishments, but when she plans for only one month, and maybe that just before work meeting, she is not successful and Relief Society spirit begins to lag. A work meeting leader is a composite. She has an appetite for workmeeting luncheons, the disposition of an angel, the curiosity of a research laboratory, the energy of an atomic bomb, the imagination of a great designer, the enthusiasm of a firecracker. When she plans a work meeting she draws on the talents of all the sisters. She likes sisters who are enthusiastic chairmen, who arrive on time and set up their own departments. She is not enthusiastic over late comers and early goers, nor sisters who work reluctantly, nor demonstrations poorly planned. Nobody else is so early to arrive or so late to go home. Nobody else gets so much inspiration from a pretty bottle, tin cans, bits of yarn, scraps of material, or ten cups of whole-wheat flour. Nobody else can cram into one day the putting on of a quilt, making pixie dolls, costume jewelry, burlap carry-all bags, have a demonstration on how to put in sleeves, turn a collar, hand-rub furniture, how to budget money, make strawberry jam, and yet have hot baked bread ready for lunch. Nobody else can coordinate her chairmen so that each has time and materials to demonstrate. A work meeting leader is a magical creature. She has the privilege as no other to use any and all who have talent. She can reach sisters who can be reached in no other way. She can make the new timid members feel needed and appreciated. She can go into the home of an inactive member and spy a work of art, a treasure longing to be shared and used. She can work magic in getting this reluctant sister to come back to Relief Society. You can get a work meeting leader out of the chapel, but you can't get her off the phone. You can give her all the rope she needs, and she'll hang your work meeting on top with activity and attendance. Might as well give up. She is genius, your devoted slave, your lifesaver, the backbone of your work meeting, your pillar of strength and a real sister indeed. When you feel your resources have hit bottom and your budget is overdrawn, your home-making standards need to be raised, but you don't know how, and you feel frustrated by having tried and failed, she can cure all your ills with the magic of attending just one work meeting. Weare so thankful for work meeting leaders! 36 can be even mo warding if "jay terials are d. Paint and clay can be Purchased in a Store, but It is much more N to se they are Made. The ol Owing "kitch n-type" craft materials can € stored to S€ another ime. Put the nger paint he Soap bubbles in smal] Jats, and the la dough in 3 Plastic bag 2¢. Laundry Starch (or flour) 1 C. Soap flakes (neither detergents nor 50ap Powders will do) ater to make a thick, slippery contically "into fours, Making jt Possible to low larger bubbles. 37 Har Huggers Are Nice Shirley Thulin I F your little girl has lost her warm ear-hugging hat, you can make this attractive one to replace it. Little girls love these hats, and they are ideal to wear with a pony tail. You can make one from felt, wool, or corduroy. If you use wool or corduroy, you will have to hem or bind the edges. You will need two pieces of material each about 16 inches long and four inches wide, some bright metallic or colorful rickrack for the trim, and two ties abcut 10 inches long. | To make a pattern to guide your cutting, make a line 16 inches | long on heavy paper. Find the center of the line and make a mark. Four inches straight up from this mark, make another mark (Figure: Dy — — —— 16 Figure 1. 38 EAR HUGGERS ARE NICE Figure 2 Now, starting from one end of the 16-inch line, draw a rounded line curving up from the end to the center mark (Figure 2). Make another rounded line from the center mark to the other end of the 16-inch line. To be sure it is the same as the first curved line, it would be best to fold the paper in half and check. Seam along top, joining front and back sections Figure 3 You will now have a semicircle with the base 16 inches long, and four inches through at the widest part (Figure 3). You will need two of these semi-circle pieces, one for the back of the hat and one for the front. Figure 4 Make four small darts in the back piece on the straight edge to shape the back of the head (Figure 4). The two center darts should be two inches long and about % inch deep, two outside darts, one inch long and \% inch deep. The darts should be about 34 inch apart. How to make seam: Machine stitch the two pieces (front and back pieces) together along the rounded edge, then stitch the trim all around the straight edges. Now make the two ties and stitch one to each end. The ties can be yarn, braided, or bias tape, or a string made of the same material the hat is made from. To trim the hat, you can make it as simple or as fancy as you wish. Just a single row of rickrack does nicely, or you can use lace, angora yarn, several rows of metallic trim, or even a leftover piece of fur. 39 iN Part IVDried Beans Marion Bennion, Ph. D. Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Morris, Ph. D. Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University Dried beans and peas have been old friends to many homemakers for years. They have found them 4 bargain — an inexpensive source of protein, calories, B vitamins, and iron. The addition of a little meat or cheese to bean dishes makes the protein even better quality. The water lost in the ripening and drying of beans must be replaced in soaking and cooking and this process has required hours of time. In this day of busy time schedules the modern homemaker has sometimes found this inconused to decrease the time required in preparation. A rapid method of soaking beans is to start by boiling them in water to cover for two minutes, removing from heat and letting covered pan stand one hour. The beans are then ready to cook in the water used for soaking. When hard water only is available the cooking time may be reduced by adding a small amount of baking soda to the soaking water. Do not use more than Ys tspbaking soda per pint of water. Larger amounts will cause the beans to be soft and mushy and will reduce the nutritive value. For one cup of small red or pinto beans, use about 3 cups of soaking water. After soaking a d one tsp. Salt and boil gently about two hours. The use of a pressure saucepan for cooking at 15 lb. Pressure after soaking will reduce cooking time to 5-10 minutes. If a pressure saucepan is used only 2 cups of water are required in the soaking process and no soda should be added. If the beans tend to form a great deal of foam during cooking, 4 tablespoon of drippings oF other fat added to the cooking water should prevent this. After the beans have been cooked they may be used in a variety of dishes. 40 Dry Bean Recipes SAVORy BEANS AND MEAT BALLS yy tsp. Chilj Powder % tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Shortening Mix Meat wel] With Onion, milk, bread Crumbs, and Seasoning. Wet hands and Shape into 12 balls. Brown Meat balls in shortening and finely cut Onion. Spoon off any drippings around Meat balls M skillet. Add Mixture of Ye Molasses yy tsp. Dry mustard ugar enough More wa T to Cover be ns Over pan and bake 3 hours at 300° F hen uncover and bake % hour more erve few drippings, Add Meat a BEANS AND BACON CASSEROLE 38 ¢ Cooked dry beans Cc. Canned tomatoes 2 bsp. Chopped green Pepper 4 ©. Choppeg Onio 2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Chili Owder Sarlic galt Strips bacon fried but not Crisp Combine all Ingredients Cept baon. Turn; © greased b ing dish Arrange bacon Strips Over top. Bake at 350° F. Fo 1 hoy Serves 4. 41 JANUARY 1964 Dew, Bowcutt Gleed, Malad, Idaho, is so Versatile and go busy With her needle an crochet hook that she is known to Relief Society and to her many frie ds, as a aker o Ovely gift As quil Ing 4n of the alad ird d Relief Ociety, f four years, she has marked an Prepared man quilts fo th Stergs for wo Meeting A arge nu ber autifully e€signed quilts Which as Completed adorn ¢ omes of hj friends and neighbors ll as ¢ of many relatives Sh as crochet da Pair oF slippers for e ch he Orty-one StTandchildren he has also made pixie dolls for gift. Erry cloth Pillows, s Smocked Pillow > and clown lls Made rom ol Ckings. She as knitted any gs ocking Caps, a as recently Ss Completed eight crib quilts, g number of braideq Tugs, and has Crocheteg a large Variety of gift items. She Sews expertly and is especially noted for the beautify] aprons she designs and for the children's clothing Which She care. S: In addition to her duties ag Work meeting leader, Mrs. Gleed has Served for many years as a faithfy] and beloved Visiting teacher. | 42 children — natural as the sunshine." "J know," she answered, try to understand why she did i she wants a pretty blond.. - - "Then he isn't the right boy." he 'nterrupted. "She can 'nd in her own pretty enough." Luana nodded, but her eyes e with him. Did not quite agre _ her own "Ves. - is best for her. It is for any girl. And turned out to be an orange WayS> darling. She must have Phil at the Gala Room. - - " His "we'll get the braces,! 1 have i er. "I was SO proud to sell the plantation o the corShe tried to ea honey-bl one." "Her own hair is pretty enough," he came back fiercely "he's the cutest girl on the whole island. She Jooked like 4 little princess when she dan But we must help her in other braces on her teeth this year Fd Ben paced back and forth across the room. At last he stopped before Lua «Po you t hink I haven't with thought of that?" he questione JANUARY 1964 "No — not that!"' Luana said. "This plantation is our home. I don't want you to work under pressure. I want to live here always. I want to make our living here." Ben bent his head. He was quiet for a moment. When he looked at her again, his eyes were steady and confident. "We'll get along," he said. '"We always do, sweetheart. I'll talk to Pixie now." Luana touched his cheek. "Be gentle with her. She loves you dearly and wants to please you." His brows puckered together, thoughtfully. "T want to say something that will make her realize that it's not the color of her hair that wins love — it's what she radiates — it's what she really is." "She needs to know that," Luana said, "but now — we must do something about her hair. We could take her to a good beauty salon." "Could they change it to her own color?" he asked, hopefully. "T think so.... They retouch it some way, but it's expensive," she added. "It won't break us," he smiled, "but she needs a lesson. Something that will remind her that mistakes cost money sometimes." "How about making her pay for it out of her baby-sitting money? She has been saving for a camping trip." "That's it!"' Ben said. "'Call the beauty salon and see if they can take her right away. I'll drive her there. I don't want anyone to see her with hair like that!" 44 THE twins were up at five o'clock on their birthday. They came romping to Luana's and Ben's bedroom, their ruddy faces glowing with joy. "Look, Mama," Benjy whispered, snuggling his face against hers. '""We're thirteen, Mama. Are you awake?" "Yes, dear," Luana answered, as she pulled Bo down beside her, too. "Happy birthday, my darlings." "Can we start on the picnic early?" Bo asked. "We told Sam Henri and Hiki and all the others we invited that we would start at six." Luana sat up. "Well! That is early. You boys take your swim right away. Then you can help with the lunch. Let's see — we decided on peanut butter and coconut sandwiches and big red apples...." "And tuna sandwiches, too," Bo added. "And bananas and grapes so Toki can eat, too," Benjy said. "That's right," Luana agreed. "Toki is part of our family now. We'll need a big jug of poi and potato chips." "And one of our birthday cakes," Bo chimed in. "We have two cakes, Mama." "Yes — we'll have the other one for our family. You remember that Daddy likes our family dinner after party guests have gone home." "Are we having a luau, too, Mama?" Bo wanted to know. "Not a real luau," she explained. "Our pig will be roasted in the roaster — not cooked under the ground on hot coals." "Oh, sure," he laughed. "TI remember." "TI wonder what I'll get for my birthday?" Benjy mused out loud. Bo looked at him, disdainfully. "Come on, dopey!" he yelled as he dashed toward the lagoon. Luana watched them as they ran through the sky-blue jacarandas and the brilliant pink flowers that were opening their petals in the early sunshine. Everything is so fresh and alive, she thought. She drew a long breath, loving the fragrance of the flowery, sweet-smelling morning. She could see the dazzling blue sky and the bright blue water of the lagoon reflecting the great white cotton-puff clouds drifting lazily against the sun. This was her own picture of paradise, she told herself with a long rapturous sigh. This was morning on the Pacific, on the long blue swells that washed the shores of the Hawaiian Islands. Midnight, moonlight, and bluevelvet twilight were equally entrancing, she thought, remembering that she had chosen early dawn for her own painting. That is when the wind kisses the waves and they linger breathlessly for that kiss. She had named _ her painting "Kiss of the Wind." It was more than a title. It meant her love for all that was dear to her — for all that Hawaii had given to her — her family, her home, her friends. "Thank you, dear Heavenly Father," she murmured as she turned from the window and hurried to the kitchen. KISS OF THE WIND By six o'clock they were ready for the drive to the rolling hills only three miles away. It was an ideal place for a picnic, with a broad valley view. Philip led the party in his own jeep. Benjy and Bo were with him. Ben followed, with the rest of the family in the station wagon. They were to meet their guests at the valley-top. When they arrived at Hill Slope, they parked their cars beside the fields of yellow poppies. Margaret stood _ entranced. "Such color!" she exclaimed. "It is an artist's duty to give this glory to the world!" "Tt is indeed!" Tutu said. "Each place seems lovelier than the last one," Margaret went on. "T can't decide which to choose. But I must do so soon." "There's a good view of Haleakala, the world's largest extinct volcano," Ben told her. "There — to your right." "Oh, yes! It must be thousands of feet to the rim," she said. "Ten thousand," Ben answered. "We will take you there before you leave. But now — let's picnic!" Soft cool air floated over them as they started up the valley. "What long grass!' Margaret called out. "And so green!" Benjy and Bo were far up the valley with their young friends. Luana could hear them laughing and whistling to each other. When she heard a loud whooping and yelling, she knew they had reached the first big hau tree — one that would be just right for climbing and swinging. 45 JANUARY 1964 When the rest of them reached the big tree, the children were completely hidden in its tangled, leafy branches. They climbed like monkeys, laughing and calling to each other until they reached the _ tiptop branches. Then each of them straddled a long limber branch and came swooping down with a wild yell that echoed across the valley. "Try it, Aunt Margaret!" Benjy came running to her after he landed on the grass. "Mama did once. It doesn't hurt. Does it, Mama?" Luana laughed. "Once is enough!"' she said. ""That's a good sport for sturdy boys. Not ladies. Let Aunt Margaret wait until we make our slide. That's thrilling enough for girls." "It sure is," Emma Lu spoke up. "I haven't done anything that crazy for three years." "Let me take Toki up the tree, Emma Lu," Benjy coaxed. "He'll like it." "He's happy right here on my shoulder," she said. "He might get lost in those branches." "Yes — he might,' Benjy agreed with a reluctant shrug. "He sure might." AFTER the second ride in the hau tree they started up the trail again. As they walked along, each gathered ti leaves. They were long shiny leaves that grew close to the ground. Ben, who was walking ahead of the others, called back that he had found a place for the slide. He was standing near a smooth grassy hillside with an incline 46 that was not too steep. "That's a sissy slide," Bo protested. "This is steep enough," Ben insisted. "And not too steep for Tutu." He looked meaningly at his twin boys. "We must remember that it was Tutu who taught us how to slide this way. When she was younger she could take the steeper slides. Now she needs an easy, gentle slope like this. I'll go first, to smooth the grass. Then we'll let Tutu slide after me, because they go faster as each one goes down. Phil — help me carry Tutu," They crossed hands and made a carriage for Tutu. She put an arm around each of their shoulders, and off they went up the hillside. When they reached the top of the hill, Ben sat down on his ti leaves. He pulled the long stalks up in front of him. Then he moved himself forward until he began to slide down the hillside through the tall, wet grass. He waited at the bottom of the hill so he could catch Tutu. "That was fun!" she laughed. "Try it, Margaret. It's getting slicker now." Margaret's ride was faster than Tutu's. A little wet pool of mud was forming at the bottom of the slide. By the time it was Luana's turn, the grass was packed down and very slippery. "Slick as a ski hill!" Luana laughed as Ben caught her at the bottom. "Your turn, Emma Lu." "Not me! The Mainland has made a sissy out of me," she called out. THE boys had a rollicking time for the next hour, laughing and sliding and splashing mud all over each other. They were covered from top to bottom. "Time to wash up," Ben said. "That picnic lunch will taste mighty good after these mud pies." They found a stream in the poppy field and waded there in the bubbling water. Tutu had brought a bar of soap in her muumuu pocket, and each took a turn washing off the mud. Then they went to the jeeps and station wagon to change into clean, dry clothes. Luana spread a large straw mat on the grass, while Philip brought the picnic baskets brimming with food. There were wooden bowls for poi and mugs for pine and mint punch. A large, high basket held the birthday cake. There were dozens of sandwiches and large, crunchy chips, and sweet pickles. When everyone was seated on the grass around the mat, Ben asked Philip to say the blessing. Luana thought she had never heard him offer such a_heartwarming prayer. Words of gratitude came from his heart with freshened vigor and meaning. Until this moment she had not realized how mature her oldest son had became. There was a hushed silence when Philip said "Amen," as if each one had felt the love and gratitude he expressed. "Well..." Ben said at last, "shall we taste Mama's good sandwiches? Margaret, would you KISS OF THE WIND like one of tuna? We catch these fish in our own lagoon. Tuna is our mainstay in these parts." Soon the children were eating as though they had never tasted anything so good. Sam Henri, a little Japanese boy with a cute, winsome smile, looked up at Tutu. ""My mother says you make the best poi in all Hawaii," he said. "She was almost afraid to send some of her Japanese sushi to drop in your poi." "Japanese sushi!" Tutu exclaimed. '"Those are vinegar rice balls. We will love them, Sam Henri." Sam Henri jumped to his feet and ran to the jeep. He came back with a covered basket filled with tasty rice balls. "Mm-m-m! Good!" Margaret said, as she ate one. "That's a new taste for me. I thought I had tasted everything." "Sam Henri," Tutu said, "you tell your mother that I think she makes the best sushi in all Hawaii!" After luncheon they leaned back in the tall grass and rested in the afternoon sunshine. Tutu told them Bible stories and legends of old Hawaii. Gradually, she led them into Sunday School songs, and the valley echoed with their joyous young voices. As the sun moved toward the west, Luana, sitting beside Tutu, spoke to her in a low voice. "Sing the 'Star-Spangled Banner' so everyone will stand up. Benjy has been sleeping long enough." So they sang the "Star-Span- 47 > and tears glistened Luana SWered, « U have a Margaret' eyes as she looked wonderfy] talent, Bo, are so oM one fa to anothe Hawaid you Pleased With your lan, Japanese, Filipino Chinese Present." "Such €votion," he mur. Said with a kind of Tapture in his "All Americans," Luana anSWered. "They "Anybody home?" now all five ma Y Voice ca] verses. Listen!» S the sy boys," he » Smiling at Benjy and Bo. A i an uninvited * tour brother Philip invited me." €en asked about going on a wanted him issi 4lnsworth has come to talk ° you about ith ved across the alled, but, later, quiet she lay in d wi you know. Ee '++ Wanted this?" ek coming from NOW what you need," Ga 48 and Hao] mured,. "Tt's the —_ sTeatest!" he eyes, Ben slept restlessly beside her. She slipped out of bed without disturbing him. She would go to her lagoon where she had always gone to think and pray when she needed help. It was one of those Hawaiian nights with a_ great, lustrous pearly moon that turned the white sand into glistening crystal. A soft, feathery wind rippled the blue velvet waves in enchanting rhythm. No one could see this lagoon in the moonlight and not yearn to see it again and again and again.; Her heart beat up into her throat! There, on the beach, was a woman sitting before an easel, painting a picture of her lagoon. It was Margaret! Luana stood in stunned silence as she realized that Margaret, too, had decided that this particular place would make a perfect painting for the contest. The white sand was cold beneath Luana's feet. She shivered, although the night was warm. Covering her face with her hands, she tried to hold back the resentment that almost choked her. She was ashamed of the thoughts that tumbled through her mind. KISS OF THE WIND Margaret did not need the money from the contest the way Luana needed it. She did not have a teenage girl who needed to have her teeth straightened; no daughter who must have a pretty wedding; no son who had been called on a mission; no twin boys who needed lessons in art and music. Margaret's husband was a successful business man, and Margaret's paintings had sold for large sums of money. Didn't Margaret realize that Ben was striving to hold on to this plantation? Why, oh, why, Luana asked herself with a sob, did this contest mean so much to Margaret? Why did she work so desperately now in the middle of the night? Quietly Luana knelt on the sandy beach, lifting her heart in prayer. She asked her Heavenly Father to free her from selfishness and resentment and cruel jealousy of Margaret. Her heart cried out in remorse. She could not bear to feel this way. Her Heavenly Father must know that she was not asking to win the contest for herself, but only for her husband and her children. (To be concluded) Gilean Douglas And now | go from water — from the sound Which has caressed me through the nights and days. My feet will turn to distant, arid ways — And sometimes stand quite still on desert ground Because the wind through dusty palms has sighed Like sleepy water on an ebbing tide. 49 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker al submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and 1 ent Sce regulations governing the submittal of matoial 4 Kiel 1 the Magazine for January 1958. Page 47, and RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Central German Mission, Rhine-Ruhr District Singing Mothers Present Music for District Conference March 1963 Seated at the right in the second row: Ruby Mae Richards, former president, Central German Mission Relief Society; seated, front row, at the right: Katherine M. Miller, chorister. Sister Richards reports: "This fine chorus furnished the music for the March district conference at Duesseldorf. Sister Miller is the wife of the building supervisor in Essen. We are very proud of our chorus, and especially proud of Sister Miller. She has had years of experience as chorister in her stake in Ogden, Utah. With her talent and her sweet, loving personality, she had our sisters singing like angels, in spite of the fact she could speak only a few words of German. "Also participating at the conference as organist was Sister Koehler; also present was Martha Amenda, President of the Rhine-Ruhr District Relief Society." Ruth Watkins Benson is the new president of the Central German Mission. 50 May 12, 1963 Mary Jane Rahlf, President, Torrance Stake Relief Society, stands second from the right in the front row; Kathryn L. Squire, former president, stands at the left in the front row; Norma I. Gagon, chorister, stands next to Sister Squire; Jean L. Terry, accompanist, is seated at the piano. Sister Rahlf reports: "This conference marked the third one at which our Singing Mothers have been privileged to perform. In October 1962 they produced a very successful musical, and are planning a Christmas musical for 1963 under the very able direction of Sister Gagon. Our membership totals forty-five, but we are expanding rapidly with renewed enthusiasm." ' eo ce a eee es oo he an en oe Re ee ae ie ha: * 9g ¥ <4) §: a WR ag EY AOE Fy 4 (Pony | | | August 15, 1963 Left to right: Ella O. Davis, Secretary-Treasurer; Delilah Marshall, First Counselor; Ella H. Rinderknecht, Second Counselor; Anna O. Smith, former President. Sister Smith reports: "The table arrangement was done by Hazel Henderson, in colors of blue and gold. Most of the grapes she made of wax. For special occasions, Sister Henderson has made beautiful table arrangements for the Relief Society Stake Board." Lola Gibbons is the new president of Mount Logan Stake Relief Society. 51 JANUARY 1964 Napa Stake 'California' Relief Society Presents "Singing Mothers' Night" May 17, 1963 Front row, left to right: Florene Williams, chorister; Thurza Foster, organist; Karen Murdock, soprano soloist; Marjorie Remington, pianist. Second row from the back, left to right: Sarah Neerings, Education Counselor; Dorothy Blaisdell, President, Napa Stake Relief Society. The program consisted of a number of offerings by the Singing Mothers, as well as vocal solos and piano solos. The presentation was beautifully rendered and very well received. Singers participating represented the following wards: Fairfield, Napa, Napa Second, Vallejo, Vallejo Second, and Vacaville. Pocatello Stake '! Daho' Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference May 5, 1963 Marilyn Rishton, chorister, stands at the right on the front row, and Mary Merkeley, accompanist, stands at the left on the front row. Enily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of fifty-three Singing Mothers presented the music for the morning session of the stake quarterly conference. The Church Authorities present, along with Pocatello Stake President Roland K. Hart, praised the Singing Mothers for their lovely appearance, and for their singing. We are particularly proud of the many young mothers in this group. This was the first conference in our new stake and ward building. It was less than a year ago when ground was broken for this building. Sister Lila Walch attended the conference as the representative of the General Board of Relief Society." Montpelter Stake 'Idaho! Honors Ward Officers and Class Leaders at Leadership Meeting May 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: ward presidents: Elma Boehme, Geneva; Elda Rohner, Montpelier Second Ward; Ora Bunderson, Montpelier Fifth Ward; Helen Lindsay, Dingle Ward; Zora Peterson, Montpelier Third Ward; Naomi Bacon, Georgetown Ward. The other sisters in the picture are counselors, secretaries, and other officers and class leaders. June R. Shepherd, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Ward and class leaders who attained a record of 100 per cent attendance at stake leadership meetings during the year were honored by Montpelier Stake Relief Society at the closing meeting. Each sister was presented with a lovely corsage made by Evelyn Kunz, stake work meeting leader. Montpelier Fifth Ward Relief Society also received special honors for having eighty-five per cent of their officers and class leaders in attendance at leadership meetings all during the year, and also for having had a record of perfect attendance of executive officers. This ward was presented with the book The Mormon Story for their library." 52 JANUARY 1964 dwork Display at "Friendship Dav" May 3, 1963 Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake Relief Society had a 'Friendship Day' as our last event of the season. We had printed invitations made, and enough were given to each ward so that each sister could receive one and also receive extras to be sent to her friends and neighbors. For our program, the stake Singing Mothers furnished two numbers. One was a special arrangement of the familiar Latter-day Saint hymn 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' The literature department arranged and directed the literature presentation which the General Board gave at the Relief Society Conference in October 1962. We are happy to say it was very well done. We had a guest book to be signed by each one attending, one side for members, and the other side for guests. We had ordered 150 copies of The Relief Society Magazine so that we would have a copy to give to each of our guests. We were pleased that we had so many guests that we ran out of copies of the Magazine, yet sorry that we did not have enough for all. "After the program everyone was invited to see our handicraft fair on display in the cultural hall. It was there, also, that we served refreshments of homemade cookies and frappé punch. We were thrilled with the success of the day. There were over 600 in attendance. Many favorable comments and expressions of appreciation were received from our guests, as well as from our members." May 24, 1963 Left to right: Mary S. Grasteit, President, Orange County Stake Relief Society; Ruth Bell, Work Director Counselor; Mary Middleton, work meeting leader; Kathern Markes, Education Counselor. Sister Grasteit reports: "We held our first Inter-Faith Social on May 24, 1963, and were very pleased with its success. Our program was on the Relief Society. To a narration on the history of Relief Society, we added film slides, and each class leader gave an over-all view of the purpose of her day at Relief Society. Our Singing Mothers added great inspiration to the day, climaxed by a special arrangement of 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' Everyone was invited to remain seated after the benediction, and the Singing Mothers sang 'Come to the Fair' as a musical invitation to join in the cultural hall for displays and refreshments. "Each of the class leaders, along with the Magazine representative, planned her display table to show the educational value of Relief Society. We have ten wards, and each ward was assigned one table for the work display. The tables included actual demonstrations of bread making, cake decorating, candy, and sweet rolls, plus how to make yarn flowers, organza _roses, and flower arranging. Other tables were filled with such items as smocked pillows, pixie dolls, mosaics, children's clothes, and the Christmas table, as shown in the picture. Our serving tables were decorated with beautiful floral arrangements of organza roses, which had been made by our board members. We had an attendance of 450 women, of whom more than fifty per cent were nonmembers of the Church, with at least thirty different church denominations being represented. The vistors were thrilled and amazed at the wonderful program of Relief Society, and many expressed a desire to attend." 54 JANUARY 1964 Kanab Stake 'Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention May 17, 1963 At left: Estella Jackson, Fredonia Ward, age eighty-six, who has served sixty-nine years as a visiting teacher; at the right: Denise Parks, Page Ward, nineteen years of age, a recent convert to the Church, who has served as a visiting teacher for a few months. Cecil M. Fisher, President, Kanab Stake Relief Society, reports: "On May 17th we had a wonderful visiting teacher convention. We were thrilled to honor Estella Jackson, who has served for sixty-nine years as a visiting teacher, and is still active in that calling. We feel that this is a most outstanding record. We also honored Ruby Swapp from the Kanab North Ward who has been a visiting teacher for fifty years. Also honored was Denise Parks, Page Ward, nineteen years of age, a new convert to the Church, who has been a visiting teacher for a few months, and is continuing in this work." Attractive programs, featuring the Relief Society emblem on the cover, and listing the names of all the visiting teachers in the stake, were distributed at the convention. The number of years of service of each visiting teacher was listed, as well as her ward or branch. 56 ————__.. Sees: —$______} THEOLOGY ¢ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 55 — Missionary Service Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 71, 73, 74, and 75) For First Meeting, April 1964 Objective: To realize that the restored gospel, through the missionary program, is the key to happiness in this hfe and eternal joy in the life to come. Introduction Following the four November 1831 conferences, Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer left for Jackson County, Missouri, in obedience to revelation. (D & C Section 69. ) Joseph Smith resumed the revision of the Bible with Sidney Rigdon acting as scribe. (DHC 1:238.) A month before this, Ezra Booth, mentioned in Lesson 50, Relief Society Magazine, August 1963, apostatized and set out to bring harm to the Prophet and to the Church. His efforts to do both of these apparently met with partial success. In the first instance, it was some of his efforts and his participation in mob action against the Prophet that brought physical Larm to the Prophet. (DHC I:261-265.) His attack against the Church and its members was made in a series of nine letters published by the Ohio Star (Rayenna, Ohio). They consisted of slanderous denunciations and falsehoods concerning Joseph and the Church. (Section 71.) In view of these efforts of Satan to thwart the work of the kingdom, the Prophet and Sidney were called by revelation to preach the gospel in the regions adjacent to Kirtland. (DEC 71:1-3.) An indication of the message delivered by these two missionaries on this special mission from December 1831 until the 10th of January 1832, is given in the Prophet's journal. He said it was a vindication of the cause of the Redeemer, that the day of vengeance was coming upon this generation, and that Prejudice and darkness caused some to persecute the 37 JANUARY 1964 true Church. Much of the bigotry caused by the apostate's letters was allayed through this mission. The revelation counseled these brethren to confound their enemies both in public and private, with the promise that their opponents would be shamed. (Ibid., verse 7.) It is worthy to note that when the Lord's servants are attacked, it is tantamount to attacking the Lord. (Ibid., verse 8.) Preach the Gospel The commandment to participate in debate was given to the Prophet because of the unusual circumstances noted above. The Lord, on the other hand, had counseled his servants to preach the first principles, to obtain the Spirit that it might convey the truth to the hearer, and thus make known the message of the dispensation. (D & C 33) 34; 42:12-17.). An experience of the Prophet in October 1833, is an excellent example of the present counsel of the General Authorities that missionaries should not indulge in debate or argument, but they should preach the simple principles by the Spirit. While in Canada with Sidney Rigdon at the house of Freeman Nickerson's brother, the latter desired to match his Bible learning with that of the Prophet in an attempt to disprove Joseph Smith as a prophet. One night the opportunity came when Freeman Nickerson placed the Bible on the table and said, "There! Now, go to it!" The Prophet took up the challenge by telling the simple but powerful and convincing account of the restoration of the gospel. The Spirit of the Lord 58 was so manifest in his testimony that opposition no longer remained. By the aid of Freeman's brother, meetings were held that resulted in fourteen baptisms, including the Nickerson who was determined to show the Prophet wrong. (Evans, Joun Henry: Joseph Smith an American Prophet, pp. 86-88.) Lack of Success in Opposition The Lord's work was not restored to fail. As pointed out in an earlier lesson (Lesson 51, Relief Society Magazine, September 1963), the kingdom of God is on the earth in the form of the Church, and the Lord has planned that it shall never be destroyed nor given to another people, but it shall stand forever. (Daniel 2:44.) In Section 71, an aspect of this foreknown eventuality is given in verses g and 10: Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you — there is no weapon that is formed against you shall prosper; And if any man lift his voice against you he shall be confounded in mine own due time. It is apparent that this assurance of defeat for those who lift their voices in opposition to the Prophet includes not only the experiences of the missionaries of 1831-32, but of any time. To speak against the Prophet of this dispensation is the same as warring against the Church which he established, and also against God. Published opposition was not the only "weapon" used against the Prophet and the saints. Physical persecution has been a common means of attempting to thwart the purpose of the Lord. Despite the adversary's "weapons," the work of God has rolled on until today the yoice of opposition is largely submerged by the prophesied, inevitable progress of successful endeavors. Commandments Are True Obedience to truth is the pre scription for happiness here an eternal joy in the life to come. The Lord admonished the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon to keep the com mandments for they are truce. (D& C 71:11.) The knowledge of truth is given by the Spirit which the missionary lS counseled to receive and President Joseph F. Smith stated the importance of adhering to the truth in these words: Our hope of salvation must be founded upon the truth, the whole truth, and nothfor we cannot buil upon error and ascend into the courts of exaltation of That cannot be done (Conference Report, October 1917, Page Bs Section 73 Section 73 is one of the shortest revelations 1 the Doctrine and Covenants. I Bible which was interrupted by the mission call of Section 72. This was an undertaking which began in New York State and was set aside as other matters needed ' mmediate attention. In a subsequent lesson some of the contributions of this work will be sndicated. For the present, however, it should be known that many important contributions have been made to our understanding of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Bible as a result of that '"translation.". An_ interesting expression, "oird up your loins and be sober," lS found in verse 6 of Section 73- The admonition "sird up yout i means to be prepared for a journey, or for a certain work. In this sens¢ "Come, that it is to be understood as used by Peter, "Gird up the loins of your minds" (1 Peter 1:13). In other words, the mind should be free from those things which deter one from the work at hand. To be sober means to be of a serious mind. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 431.) Section 75 — Introduction At the conclusion of a conference held in Amherst, Ohio, a number of the elders asked the Prophet to inquire of the Lord concerning their specific duties in bringing people to a sense of their condition. In re cording this fact the Prophet quoted a scripture that emphasizes that everyone sins and, therefore, is im need of repentance. (D & C 33-4 DHC 1:242-243-) The opening verses of Section 75 may be applied to the thousands of missionaries of this dispensation. In these five verses the missionary is commissioned to proclaim the Lord's gospel in earnestness, eschewing idleness, and to be mighty in that proclamation. The earnest missionary's message should be delivered as the sound of a trumpet. 'This expression alludes to the sounds of this instrument that can be heard far and wide with mighty blasts. 59 JANUARY 1964 Such an allusion seems to carry with it the importance of the message since it is to be made known without shame or diffidence on the part of the Lord's servant. The following testimony of President Bigham Young is typical of those who have received the truth and made it a part of their lives: When I first commenced preaching, I made up my mind to declare the things that I understood, fearless of friends and threats, and regardless of caresses. 'They were nothing to me, for it was my duty to rise before a congregation of strangers and say that the Lord lives, that He has revealed Himself in this our day, that He has given to us a Prophet, and brought forth the new and everlasting covenant for the restoration of Israel, and if that was all I could say, I must be just as satisfied as though I could get up and talk for hours.... With regard to preaching, let a man present himself before the Saints, or go into the world before the nobles and great men of the earth, and let him stand up full of the Holy Ghost, full of the power of God, and though he may use words and sentences in an awkward style, he will convince and convert more, of the truth, than can the most polished orator destitute of the Holy Ghost; for that Spirit will prepare the minds of the people to receive the truth, and the spirit of the speaker will influence the hearers so that they will feel it (Journal of Discourses 4:21). Missionaries are promised by the Lord that if they labor faithfully, they "shall be laden with many sheaves, and crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life' (D & C 75:5). Missionary Assignments Section 75 contains many missionary assignments. (D & C 75:6-17, 30-36.) The names of some of these elders are well known in our history, such as Orson Hyde, Orson 60 Pratt, Hyrum Smith, and others, but some are mentioned about whom little is known. 'This does not mean, however, that their labors were not as acceptable to the Lord nor that their reward will not be as great as the well-known. The promise of eternal glory is for all the faithful, whether apostle or elder. Each will be judged by his performance in accordance with his opportunities for service. (On pages 435-436, 439-440 of the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary will be found biographical sketches of the elders referred to in Section 75.) How should these elders find success in their missionary labors? 'This was the question which they desired the Prophet to ask of the Lord. The answer was that they should pray to the Lord that he might give the Comforter which would teach the things that were necessary for them to have. (D & C 75:10-11.) This is the way of the true missionary. Circumstances vary due to the area, people, and the particular circumstances at the moment of contacting the prospective investigator. Divine guidance is the answer in all of these cases; nonetheless, the missionary is to study the people and the culture. The key to receiving the benefits of the Holy Ghost is prayer. The Lord does not give if the person does not knock. The missionary is given the promise that through his faithfulness the Lord will be with him to the end. (Ibid., verses 13-14.) Others are told that by their faithfulness they shall overcome all things, resulting in their being lifted up at the last day. (Ibid., verse 16.) 'These promises enforce the truth that constancy and Propriate. Ty for this se of the La In Mission LESSON DEPART ENT "++ The great judgment that is to come will not be altogether Performed by one will Book of [; € will be scanned he man's acts and th women's acts "pon the earth will be disclos, and we wil] all confess M Our souls at the judgment IS Just and Tighteous, }, Cause it wil] © uttered and "lvered by one havi § authority and the Seal of Gog will be Upon it, ( Conference Report, October 1916, page >: of judgment than fo; those who Teject the £0spel, Suggests that since the heathen will be assigned to the terrestrig] kingdom (D&C 45:54; 76:72), the willfully Corrupt may be in g lesser kingdom, Unless the Case there Were some Who Could not 8° On missions they should Provide 61 JANUARY 1964 In keeping with the commandment to provide for one's family, the virtue of industry ls demanded. Idleness is a sin. There is always something for the person to do in the Church; there is always oppor tunity to improve one's mind by study; idleness means neglect and waste, both of which are opposed to the spirit and letter of the gospel. (Ibid., verse 29-) Section 74 — Background While translating the Bible, a question was raised about one of Paul's statements concerning an aspect of marriage relations. Section 74 is an interpretation of I Corinthians 7:14. It appears that in the Corinth Branch of the Church there arose the question of whether or not the convert should leave the nonmember husband or wife. Paul's counsel was that this should not be done because a_ sanctifying effect was brought into the home by the member of the Church. It was maintained by some that if the wife should leave her husband because of his not being a member, she should also leave the children. Paul ES VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE declared against such a doctrine, which brings us to the real message of the Section — "little children are holy, being sanctified through the atonement of Jesus Christ" (Ibid., 74:7). This passage and others in our modern books of scripture (Ibid., 29:46-48) have cleared away some of the false doctrines that grew up during the period of apostasy Té- garding the salvation of little children. By revelation to Joseph Smith, children who die before the age of accountability — eight years — are saved in the celestial kingdom through the atonement of Jesus Christ. (Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959.) Questions for Discussion 1. Explain: "There is no weapon that is formed against you that shall prosper." 2. Discuss: Truth will triumph, and it must be lived for one to receive eternal life. 3. Define the gospel as the power of God unto salvation. 4. Why is it necessary for the missionary to seek divine guidance in his work? 5. What responsibility is attached to the missionary work? — ——~ ne ond Covenants Message 55 —_ "Wherefore, Be Not Weary in Well-Doing" (D & C 64:33). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, April 1964 Objective: To show that great accomplishments come through doing small things well. Wrhuen the Lord gave the instruc: tion "Be not weary in well-doing," he emphasized the fact that great 62 accomplishments come out of doing small things well. In the same verse in the Doctrine and Covenants, he said, "out of small things proceedeth that which is great." As we admire and applaud the honors which come Prone to overlook the fact that these outstanding achievements | come only as a Tesult of their hay- | Ing done well The story jg told that when | Michelangelo was Working on one | of his great Some weeks later this friend visited rr4 are smal] | friend replied, ie Yes," the artist Tesponded, "but Perfection js composed of details, but perfection is no detail," In avoiding "weariness in well-doing," we Should Tecognize the jo that comes from doing well the little, good things. It is a truism that Recently a prominent newspaper Published an editorial Praising the LESSON DEPARTMENT had passed away. Emphasized the fact ad_ been beautifully were younger than she. This is the type of selfless, dedicated « which distinguishes a life and makes it great. Someone has said that the requisite for great living is the ability to do common things uncom. James Allen in his book The cavenly Life, Page 39, sums y this thought with these lines, "Lay up each Let us follow the admonition of Lord when he said, "Wherebe not Weary in well-doing," recognizing the fact that "out of small things Proceedeth that which is great." 63 WORK MEETING oye fh [Ihe Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 15 — Planning the Family Wardrobe Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, April 1964. Objective: To help each family member feel well dressed regardless of family income. Miloruer,. I need a dress for next Saturday night, and there is a lovely one in the shop window that I'd like to buy. May I have it?" Are you ever confronted with such problems? If so, what is the wisest thing to do? To say yes, and try to adjust other expenditures through the month, or does such a question cause you to stop and think and wonder how you can do some intelligent planning to avoid such emergency calls? I hope the latter is the case, because wardrobe planning is the theme for this discussion. Many people spend too much for clothes and still "have nothing to wear." The percentage of the family income spent for clothing may be as low as five per cent and go as high as twenty-five per cent, but the amount spent does not alone determine how well dressed the family will be. People sometimes buy clothing because it looks well on the model in the shop window, because of sales persuasion, because of high style, because they think it a bargain, or because they need it immediately and have no time to look further. 64 Such unwise ways of spending the clothes budget do not bring the satisfaction possible where buying is done according to a previous plan. Cowper described the results of such buying thus: Dress drains our cellar dry And keeps our larder lean; puts out our — fires And introduces hunger, frost, and woe, Where peace and hospitality might reign. But apparel oft proclaims the man, so you had better have a carefully worked out plan. A full larder and tranquility will be your reward, and you will have the consciousness that everyone in the family is well dressed. How do you start? Here is the first step: go through every closet and drawer that contains clothing to be sure you know what each member of the family has. The older members of the family might help in this by going through theirs with you. Sort the contents as you look them over in three piles. Keep those that are in good condition that will be worn and enjoyed. Put aside those which would be worn if they were mended or dyed or re- modeled. Box for disposal the mistakes, the misfits, those which will never be worn again which can be given away with profit. Step number two: have a notebook, write the name of each per son in the family, allowing sufficient space to list each person's needs. Make three divisions for each (1) Sunday best, (2) everyday, (3) special; what you have and what ou need. It will then be easy to list what each person has that is usable, and the process of sorting and listing will suggest possible needs for the year ahead. Step number three: have a family council and discuss yout plan, stressing these items: a. A Sunday outfit is important for every individual in the family. Psychologically, one is more likely to act his best if he looks his best, and surely one should be at his best on the Lord's Day. Check your list and see what the family can do to get in condition for Sunday weat and decide what is needed for the year ahead. B. Appropriate daytime clothes for school or work are essential. One can forget about how he looks if he knows he is appropriately dressed and can then con centrate on his work. Drip-dry shirts and plouses, easy-to-care-for skirts and trousers, and no-iron underwear lighten the task of caring for these clothes and should be a major consideration in planning for the year ahead. C. Sportswear and clothes for special occasions are important, but come third on the list and should not swallow up most of the budget. A swimsuit for one, tennis outht for another, a cub scout OT party dress for others are examples. Special interests determine what should be included. D. Where the money will come from and the amount that can be allocated for clothing require careful study. How LESSON DEPARTMENT much money will be needed for the year ahead? Make an estimate. What can each do to help get what is needed? Here is a splendid opportunity to encourage imnitiative in earning and in learning how to make and care for clothing. Step number four: learn the basic rules for thrifty shopping. 1. Shop with a list; buy only the items Janned for; know what you want, and don't depend on a saleslady to tell you what to get. 2. Have a color plan, a basic color could be decided upon for each family member. 'Then, whatever lS purchased can be coordinated in various combinations. 3. Buy at the end of the season, and get what you need at a fraction of the cost paid by early-season shoppers. 4. Look for good-quality fabrics and simple, beautiful lines that will bring satisfaction. 5s. Learn to sew and make your own clothes; a clever woman with a needle and thread can stretch the budget twice the distance. Perhaps most important of all, the homemaker must become clothes conscious to know how clothes can lift the soul, if they are flattering in line and scale and texture. And don't forget color. Just because a woman is advancing in years doesn't mean that she should shift into neutral. Color is important for all ages. The homemaker by her own appearance can set the example. By taking stock of herself she can encourage family members to take stock of themselves. An attractive mother in a well-kept home can set the tone for high family morale. Careful wardrobe planning can be of inestimable help in this, as well as in balancing the budget. 65 (Textbook. America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, Pp. 855-866) For Thirg Meeting, April 1964 Objective: To Study and €valuate middle-class United States of America during the 1920's as Tepresented in the life and Wuitings of Sinclair Lewis, "Mirror, MIITor on the Wall, who Script of everyday living than the IS fairest of us al)?" ¢ relatively steat literary arp Or style young Ha] unknown Writer, Harry Sinclair had once dreamed chi CwIS, created his most telling mir. While Many Joyal writer frj father than Proclaiming the most and praised jt highly, he fou beautify] and fair he Caricatured such literary School as did himself and those Whom he had before him or Heming own best among the 2,500 peohim. How, then, are We to account cared, to be ure, by two index among the comp d multiple ngers p cking at the €yboard so "TOSS-currents f our €m age steadily that us hands an Wrists this € vividly Portrayed in hig wiit. €came 5 4 a8 now, fey, ings. A thir appeal may haye been Critics list his &§ Amerithe "tevo]t from th village," the CaS greatest Writers himself Was smugness and Me€dlocrity of smal] Painfully aware that his mumicking town life, whic d, in Lewis a transcriptions f realit often Major Spokesman sometimes established institutions — social, intellectual, patriotic, economic and religious — for smugness, complacency, and mediocrity which he found to be their dominant characteristics. In detailing with meticujous and penetrating realism the human foibles of middle-class America, Lewis was both idealist and realist, hating his drab, stereotyped home town yet loving it. The seeds of all his villains and heroes lay within himself, there tossed about and torn apart by the raging conflicts which he always tried so desperately to resolve by writing them out of himself. The Lewis Family Life Lewis' father, Dr. E. J. Lewis, was a stern, methodical, parsimontous man, proud of his Puritan ancestors and dedicated to the virtues of responsibility and hard work. A school teacher before he began "reading medicine" in a Minnesota doctor's office, he believed strongly in education as 4 tool necessary for success. Lewis' mother was a fellow teacher, reared in Waseca, Minnesota, who gave birth to Harry, her third son, in 1855. She was sickly with tuberculosis and pleutisy, and died when he was six. A year later Dr. Lewis brought a stepmother into their home. She often read to "Hal," gave him the companionship not to be found in his father, and earned Hal's lifelong affection. When the oldest brother left a Chicago dental school in mid-term he returned home to work in the flour mill and to marry, but he was never to be much either in the family or in Hal's life. It was his brother Claude who was the father's LESSON DEPARTMENT favorite son, Claude who followed his father's footsteps, to medical school and a profitable medical practice in St. Cloud, Minnesota, Claude who was wanted and successful, Claude whom the gangly, lonely, and teased Hal envied as a boy and whom he tried to impress for sixty years of his life. Without a strong sense of belonging in his home, scorned by the one girl to whom he made puppy love advances, left out by Claude and the older boys whom he so admired because of his being the "little brother" who always wanted to tag along, cast out by boys of his own age save for one lone friend, Hal found comforting escape in keeping a diary and in the English literature books which his father kept in the house but never mentioned. The beauty and idealism of the romantic poets best filled his needs, while nature was far more real to him in the pages of his lifelong passion, Thoreau s Walden, than were the rolling Minnesota prairies. Little as there was to do in plain Sauk Centre, decades before the advent of organized recreation, lonely HarOver six feet before he was sixteen, he was so awkward at dancing that he never learned, yet he attended the school dances by sitting in a corey and reading 4 book the entire evening. When he was seventeen his pat ents sent him to Oberlin Academy in Ohio, 4 Congregational school, where he experienced a religious ferment and strongly desired to become a foreign missionary. But after a surmmer ' Sauk Centre he forgot this dream, while his father decided on Yale as best preparation 67 JANUARY 1964 for his professional future. Here, as at Oberlin, he attended practically no social functions, often walked alone in the fields, and during the summers traveled by cattle boat to Liverpool and Panama. With a school chum he spent a month as janitor at Helicon Hall, an experiment in communal living dominated by the socialist reformer and novelist, Upton Sinclair. With no funds from his father until he returned to school, he made a meager living doing hack work for various magazines, then returned to Yale, from which he was graduated in 1907. He toyed with the possibilities of studying law and medicine, but, instead followed the pattern of his greatest college interest and decided to become a writer. Sorely disappointed in Harry's evident irresponsibility, Dr. Lewis gave him no financial or moral support. Completely on his own, Harty wrote magazine articles and corrected copy in newspaper offices, finally settling in New York City where, in 1914, he married Grace Hegger, a talented and _ beautiful young girl who was supporting herself by working on the staff of Vogue magazine. In 1917, his first son, Wells Lewis, was born. Before his first great success in 1920, when Main Street was published, he wrote four novels which were mildly praised. After the phenomenal sales of Main Street guaranteed both his fame and his fortune, Lewis began the great decade of his life, sustained by the wide acceptance of his best novels, Babbitt (1922), Arrowsmith (1925), Elmer Gantry (1927), and Dodsworth (1929). Although Main 68 Street has been translated into nearly every European language, it is usually considered that Babbitt and Arrowsmith constitute Lewis' best work. Exemplifying his nonconformity, he declined the Pulitzer Prize (for Babbitt) in 1925. It was through the character of Babbitt, an American businessman, that Lewis truly pictured himself. However, in 1930, when he was the first American to be offered the Nobel Prize (for Arrowsmith), he accepted. Though before his lonely death in Rome in 1952 at the age of sixtyseven he was to write over twenty novels, innumerable short stories and essays, his best work was done by 1930, impossible though it was for him ever to admit it. Homeless Harry After Main Street made Sinclair Lewis a Great Personage his success was undeniably proved to his family and home town in terms they could understand — money. Throughout the remainder of his life Lewis returned often, but never could he stay long, neither there nor any place. Having achieved success, he continued to pursue success even more relentlessly; all he ever gained from his endless self-driving were fame and money. He was a bundle of restless, nervous energy which never exhausted itself. An "amusing, ardent person, condemned to perpetual vitality," he spent his life searching for the romantic ideals of peace, goodness, and _ beauty which he had first loved in his lonelv childhood; not finding them in the world about him, he attacked human weakness wherever he found it, both in himself and in others, more and more frequently exploding in violent tantrums at those who, in the slightest, opposed his will or doubted his literary greatness. Sinclair Lewis inspired genuine love in Grace Hegger, his first wife, and in Dorothy 'Thompson, his second, though both left him, alcoholism being a contributing factor. He loved jokes and plotting out actions and conversations which amused others. Though stingy at times, he was often most generous, both with his own family and with struggling writers. When he so chose, he had a boyish charm and whimsical warmth which gave those near him delight. Most often in his earlier years he could be tender and gentle to adults; never could he communicate with children, including his own. Main Street Everything in Lewis' life was secondary to his writing. His writing he always loved; to the end of his life he frequently lost himself in the intensity of work, successfully using his writing as escape from the personal problems he could neither face nor solve. And when he combined his continuing drive to know life as it really was with Sauk Centre (called Gopher Prairie in the novel) which he loved so fully that after his youth he could not bear living there — only then was such a conflicting combination ready to produce Main Street, which appeared in 1920. The novel centers about Carol Kennicott, wife of the complaisant village doctor. Having been brought to Gopher Prairie as a new bride by her husband, who knows her talents LESSON DEPARTMENT and her restless desire to improve her world, Carol increasingly feels trapped. The physical makeup of the town reveals the same clutter, conformity, and subservience to established values which she sees in its inhabitants: Main Street with its two-story brick shops, its story-and-a-half wooden residences, its muddy expanse from concrete walk to walk, its huddle of Fords and lumber-wagons, was too small to absorb her.... The skeleton iron windmill on the farm a few blocks away at the north end of Main Street was like the ribs of a dead cow. She thought of the coming of the Northern winter, when the unprotected houses would crouch together in terror of storms galloping out of that wild waste. They were so small and weak, the little brown houses. 'They were shelters for sparrows, not homes for warm laughing people.... Dyer's Drug Store, a corner building of regular and unreal blocks of artificial stone. Inside the store, a greasy marble soda-fountain with an electric lamp of red and green and curdled-yellow mosaic shade. Pawed-over heaps of toothbrushes and combs and packages of shaving-soap. Shelves of soap-cartons, teething-rings, garden-seeds, and patent medicines in yellow packages... Notorious mixtures of opium and alcohol, in the very shop to which her husband sent patients for the filling of prescriptions.... A small wooden motion-picture theater called "The Rosebud Movie Palace." Lithographs announcing a film called "Fatty in Love." Howland & Gould's Grocery. In the display window, black, over-ripe bananas and lettuce on which a cat was sleeping. Shelves lined with red crepe paper which was now faded and torn and concentrically spotted.... A score of similar shops and establishments. Behind them and mixed with them, the houses, meek cottages or large, comfort- 69 JANUARY 1964 able, soundly uninteresting symbols of Prosperity.. |, In all the town not one building save the Ionic bank which gave pleasure to Carol's eyes; not a dozen buildings which Suggested that, in the fifty years of opher Prairie's existence, the citizens had realized that it was either desirable Or possible to make this, their common by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.; renewed 1948, by Sinclair Lewis, Reprinted by permission of the Publishers ), From the street and all that it symbolizes Carol flees, distraught at the thought of making her home and future in Gopher Prairie, Eyok. Ig no responses from her husband, She asked impulsively, "You, why do you stay here?" "I have the Village Virus," "It sounds dangerous." Swamp. I'm a perfect example.... When I first came here | swore I'd 'keep up my interest.' Magazines to one poem. Minneapolis trips till ] simply had to go there on a lot of legal matters, _ I 70 decided to leave here. Grasp the world. Then J found that the ing ditch cases. So —_ That's all of the dead Chapter XI (text, page 856) details Carol's increasing disillusion. Ment when she joins the Thanatopsis, a women's study club, and attempts to inject into their circle her new ideas about really studying a few great writings and about bringing all forces of the community together to build beneficial projects in a spirit of unselfish Cooperation, Rather than listening to Carol, each Person speaks in tones of mutual distrust, self-interest, and entrenched prejudice. As she raises her hand to vote for the measure she abhors (pressure of the group being the true mechanical dominance which forces her hypocrisy) she begins to realize how effectively she has been checkmated in her efforts to liberate and improve her community, Increasingly convinced that she will suffocate if she stays in Gopher Prairie, Carol leaves Will and runs away to Washington, D. C., where for two years she tries in vain to discover or create a set of values to replace those of Minnesota provincialism. Neither glad nor sorry to be back, she is soon expecting her second child but still unwilling to submit to the village, even though she knows she has been beaten. One evening before retiring, Carol leads her husband to the nursery and points to their daughter. Aoe | ".. +» Do you see that object on the pillow? Do you know what it is? It's a bomb to blow up smugness..., Think what that baby will see and meddle with before she dies in the year 2,000! She may see an industrial union of the whole world, she may see aeroplanes go. Ing to Mars." "Yump, probably be changes all right," yawned Kennicott. She sat on the edge of his bed while he hunted through his bureau for a col. Lar which ought to be there and _persistently wasn't.... "I do not admit that Main Street is as beautiful as it should be! I do not admit that Gopher Prairie is greater or more generous than Europe! I do not admit that dish-washing is enough to satisfy all women! | may not have fought the good fight, but I have kept the faith." "Sure. You bet you have," said Kennicott. "Well good night. Sort of feels to me like it might snow tomorrow. Have to be thinking about putting up the storm-windows pretty soon. Say, did you notice whether the girl put that screw. Driver back?" (Ibid., PP. 450-451). And the subduing of Carol is complete. Of What Value, Sinclair Lewis? As stated by T. K. Whipple, "Sinclair Lewis is the most successful critic of American society because he is himself the best proof that his charges are just." At his own true and idealistic core Sinclair Lewis was a typical middle-class American who passionately opposed all forms of tyranny over men's minds and spirits. Though _ his sympathies for oppressed minority groups is revealed elsewhere, his best novels reveal and expose the most widespread, most dangerous threat to basic freedoms: the self-tyranny LESSON DEPARTMENT of established prejudice and smugness, hypocritical lip service to the enduring economic, social, and _religious ideals, while at the same time worshipping bigness, quantity, and material "success." Most ironically, Lewis himself loved these very proofs of boosterism and measurable success which he satirized most brilliantly. Though Sinclair Lewis idealized Thoreau's economic simplicity and integrity, in his inner heart's immediate worldly desire, Lewis loved best what he satirized. Lewis had a sensitive ear which allowed him to catch the idioms of American speech as no writer has done since Mark Twain. The speech of his characters is loaded with cliches rarely found in the dictionary but still alive and current: "you tightwad," "roughneck," "why sure, you bet," "I feel punk," "I work like the dickens," "common as mud," "that takes the cake," "T stuck to it through thick and thin." Sometimes sentimental, at times overly caustic, Lewis had a remark able ability to mirror architecture, detail of decor and design, to lampoon and reveal folkways of American middle class. But always behind the irony of Lewis there is an idealism which conceives of a better society than the one his writings reveal. Out of this gap between what was and what should be came the endless torrent of nervous energy which, controlled and directed, produced his best works, but when applied to social problems not entirely absorbed by his imagination, yielded inferior writings. 71 JANUARY 1964 Thoughts for Discussion 1. The life of Dr. E. J. Lewis, Harry's father, was dominated by a stern sense of duty. Do you feel this sence of duty SOCIAL SCIENCE ° was inherited by his son, or was it repudiated by him? 2. Do you feel that Lewis' evaluation of middle class America during the early 1920' is valid? Divine Law and Church Government Lesson 13 — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Elder Anel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, April 1964 Objective: To stress the importance of each and every calling to the successful operation of Church government.. When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God (Mosiah 2:17). By love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Gal. 5:13-14). If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all my commandments (D & C 42:29). A wise man said, "Human societies are happy in proportion as they have their treasure in that class of goods which are not lessened by being shared." The gospel of Jesus Christ requires from each member a personal investment of time, intelligence, talent, and wealth. This investment is in the development of the kingdom of God. In this kingdom (society) the welfare of others is the major treasure and service is the medium of exchange. Every member has the opportunity for full participation in 72 service to his fellow men. There is no limit to one's sharing in this treasure; therefore, as the wise man suggests, there is no limit to his happiness. Human weaknesses, selfishness, covetousness, and greed are the obstacles in the way of the realization of this ideal. A Lay Leadership The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints depends upon a lay leadership. Every member in good standing is eligible to hold office. Service in this respect begins very early. Young people ten and twelve years of age are frequently called to positions (Sunday School class officers, deacon presidencies, secretaries, etc.). The Church does not have a trained or professional ministry. It does have a program of training for leadership that begins formally with the deacon age and_ continues throughout the life of the individual. Because of this opportunity for training, the Church can and does rightly expect an improved leadership from each new generation. An important part of this leadership training is the formulation of an attitude of willingness to serve. Members in this Church need to develop a positive attitude toward acceptance of any call to serve. This comes from continued teaching and encouragement to all members from the time of their baptism. It is also greatly influenced by proper example set by their elders. Numbers Involved in Leadership From the six members present at the organization of the Church on April 6, 1830, there has been a continual growth in membership. With this increase, which has reached an approximate total of two million members (November 1963) there has been a tremendous increase in the number of administrative units in the government of the Church. The number of stakes has reached 387 (November 1963) and the wards and branches in stakes now number approximately 3,588, and there are 73 missions. The importance of the above statistics in this discussion is the increase of officers and teachers required to operate this great organization. An average size ward (550 members) needs approximately 250 officers and teachers to complete the organization for their regular activities. In addition, it requires approximately 120 leaders to office the stake organization properly. Both ward and stake leadership and the officers needed to operate the general Church organization conLESSON DEPARTMENT stitute a tremendous army of active members, numbering approximately forty-five per cent of the total membership. It is the practice of the Church to give one assignment to a person. Also, it is customary to change the assignments from time to time. This gives more people opportunity for service with a wider experience in Church government. The Call to Service We believe that the leaders of this Church are called by divine authority and that they may enjoy the blessings of inspiration and revelation in carrying out their assignments. Divine authority, revelation, and inspiration are involved in every assignment made in Church government. Each person is called by the Priesthood to the position he holds and may have hands laid upon him, receiving the blessings of heaven to assist him in carrying out his calling. 1. Selection of Leaders. Selection of proper leaders is a vital responsibility of the presiding officers in branches, wards, stakes, missions, and the general organization of the Church. Using the ward unit as an example, the bishop is responsible for the welfare of his ward members, spiritually and temporally. 'T'eaching plays a major role in the program of the Church. The ward experience provides the major part of the religious training for the members of the Church. The bishop, therefore, must know his people well enough so that he can select as leaders and teachers those who can give strength and understanding of 73 Pression of the lesson Meeting. Charge Should NeW appointee and e the Tsponsibilities of the calling. Fully in th lurch are trained for 1€Ir assignment; but an member who jg willing to Work and Put forth 3 SIncere effort to know What the 4Ssignment Tequires, and who is hy ble €nough to Tecognize that he js being called to the Lord's 74 clear that any cal]. Teal opporIs an OPpportunit - It is doing for Others with an UNselfish Motive, voluntarily putting forty, lS May express itself 4nd spiritual g his work. Responsibility of Church Mem. Ers. The "©sPonsibility IS not on] on the officers and teachers for the advancement of ¢ Lord. To € a good follower js a essential] ualification for grou ™membershj There are SO man It is important that all ward members accept the °PPortunities for by the Organizations of the Church. By the Ci i the Program, and development, both wen the names of people are tread to fil] the Varioy Offices In the urch. OmMmetimes hought the process of sustainin leaders jg he part of 1€ mem rs. Their differenc IS clearly LESSon DEPART ENT Covenants Welead, "Hy, P€tson is to ote Carefully thought through before it Sup have the Privilege of Taisin heir hand for or against the Tecom- ™Mendation Usually the Presidin Officer wi] explain th 1€ majorIty rules but he Would give consideration to the bjections of the dissenting Individual] after the Is admonition applies to both officers an A case In JANUARY 1964 I I (e*Z 2 v is a i A a | SACRED MUSIC | FOR WOMEN'S | THREE PART | CHORUSES | | — FORTH IN THY NAME, © LORD, | GO—Madsen...........20 aed IF YOU LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS —Madsen......................22.-2.000000-.25 ae. IN THY FORM—Madsen.............20 wm HEAVENS ARE TELLING —Haydn.25... LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster _............. 225 = LORD lS MY LIGHT—Allitsen.....25 ad LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.........20.... MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen.....................20 | O LOVELY LAND, AMERICA—Madsen.................:.20 —_ OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.........20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South \ | Salt Lake City 11, Utah | Please send the music indicated | above. | I (] On Approval [] Charge! (OO Money Enclosed HF WMMBR ie... -nnnaensssssccnesssonnssanssssnenceccnnnssnis 1 Address 1 | City and State 15 E. Ist South | / Salt Lake City 11, Utah | quirements in the discharge of this assignment, yet at times pressure must be exerted to get the visits made before the month ends. There are examples in other organizations illustrating the need of one's sustaining action as well as the uplifted hand. Limitations in Church Callings At the time a person is called to serve in any office in this Church, careful instructions should be given as to his duties and responsibilities. A true quality of leadership is to recognize the extent of the responsibility of the office. 'The individual also should seek diligently to know his duty in the office to which he has been called. (D & C 107:99- 100. ) There is a close and interlocking relationship with every activity and function in the organization of the Church. It all comes under the direction of the Priesthood and _ insures the orderly operation of the kingdom. When duties are clearly defined and the directions followed, effective operation of the program is assured. 'This still leaves room for the expression of the personality and the initiative of the leader in executing his assignment. The secret of success in all Church work is being in tune with the Spirit of God and keeping in mind always the purpose and objective of the plan of life and salvation — which is to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man. 1. Many Called But Few Are Chosen. In the 121st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are reminded that to be chosen, one must be in tune with the Lord. The things of this world can and do become so important that they inter. Fere with the d eousness. One cannot serve the Lord Satisfactorily in any office or calling in this Church unless the Punciples of few are They may not be chosen use the By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shal] greatly enlarge the soul without hyPocrisy, and without guile — Reproving betimes with sharpness, when Ghost; and then afterwards an increase of thou hast TeLESSON DEPART ENT LET US HELp You TRAVEL WORRY FREE To HAWAII and SOUTH (New low fares) EUROPE 21 Day Excursion Tours (Save 30%) PACIFIC That he may know that thy faithfulness IS stronger than the cords of death UNCeasingly; then Shall thy confidence wax strong in 't € presence of God; doctrine of the Priesthood shal] distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost Shall be thy constant Companion, and thy Scepter an unchangTo execute one's calling Properly in this Church, 4 Person should study and follow the counsel of Section 121 of the Doctrine and Cove. Nants. 77 WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). <> 27 days — July 13 to August 8 World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. —_ 24 days — July 23 to August 15 World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. —_ All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. —- Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 78 COLD MEDALLION HOME A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. < Buy now from your dealer eg Summary The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. 'The responsibilities require service to others; assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds confidence and competency in his leadership. 'The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind. References Doctrine and Covenants 58:121. Wiptsor, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 16; 18. Tatmacr, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapters 10; 24. SmitH, Henry A., "Dynamic Leadership of the First Presidency Accelerates Pace of Church-Wide Activity," Church News, December 29, 1962, page 6. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way does the law of consecration apply in this lesson? 2. What human characteristics interfere most with service in behalf of and consideration for the welfare of mankind? 3. What is the importance of a lay leadership in the plan of salvation? 4. What are the opportunities that arise out of service in the Church program? 5. What is the proper procedure for notifying a person of his selection for an office in the Church? 6. What is the problem involved in this quotation "Many are called, but few are chosen"? | a a Gladys Hesser Burnham When you were small and bumps and scratches came | kissed them better and they mended well; Now you are older and heartaches loom My kisses aren't enough to break the spell. | can. Only wait with anguished sigh And hope your confidence is mine to keep. Lf | can just be there to smooth your hair My soft caress may be what makes you weep. The unchecked well of your emotion breaks And floods the valley of your first heartaches. ~~ Weta t = Dorothy J. Roberts The slim grace of her childhood Now | shall only know In memory where I carry Her face like a cameo. The brief and tender mystery Of childhood now is lost, Save in a pattern of the mind Where her dainty footsteps crossed. Her tiny form eludes me — Only a dream | save. She would not pause for capture, Elusive as a wave. But just as she left the portal Where the doors of childhood close, | caught her on paper, forever, A girl — beautiful as a rose. Verda P. Bollschweiler The birthday girl, with wonder in her eyes, Opened a storybook when she awoke, Then in bewilderment and shocked surprise, With heartbreak in her voice, my darling spoke — The words I'! Treasure long as I'm alive: "| thought that | could read when |! Was five." 79 o ae Ss New Mit J fy We le Up / ¢ oy fp GL2 We, eal Mid a iy Bakersfield, California Mrs. SOPHIA HARSCH Augusta, Georgia Mrs. ANN ELIZA ALLEN COOMBS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. LORETTA TUCKER JOHNSON Ogden, Utah Mrs. ABBIE JANE MOYER WILLDEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louisa HaaG ABEGG DONE Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Lee WILSON MYERS Augusta, Georgia Mrs. DELLA BUNKER LISONBEE Provo, Utah Mrs. SaRAH P. STEVENSON One Hundred Nauvoo, Illinois Centerville, Utah Mrs. RACHEL MIDDLETON JENSEN Mrs. ANNIE M. ROBERTS SMITH Ninety-five Mrs. Ont Sm =: TucsonsArivena Mrs. Mary LAMBERT Hussey Mrs. NANCY ELIZABETH C. WALKER Mrs. MIRINDA SNOW FRANDSEN Ninety-two Mrs. AMELIA HEPPLER HANSEN Richfield, Utah Mrs. FRANCES LATHROP LEBO Mrs. Nancy B. WALKER Mrs. OLIvE LoutIse HARRIS VINCENT Berkeley, California Price, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. RosatHa Dovucias REvor Ogden, Utah Mrs. ELIZABETH BurRT SHIPLEY Ninety American Fork, Utah Delta, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. JESSIE Bowers SMITH INMAN Phoenix, Arizona INTERNATIONAL DIRECTORY OF WOMEN'S ORGANIZATIONS The first comprehensive listing in handy reference form More than 300 National and International Women's Organizations Includes names, addresses, convention dates and places, and other useful information. Sponsored by the National Council of Women of the United States Hard Cover — Price $2.50 per copy Order from and make check or money order payable to: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES 345 East—46th Street New York City, New York 10017 ROSE PARADE Leave December 27 Return January 3 By way of Las Vegas <> HAWAII Next Hawaiian Tour Depart February 1964 <= MEXICO — 1964 —— WORLD'S FAIR — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours — > Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.....35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.....39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 600 to 1000 miles....54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A PESERET [PEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 300 to 600 miles.....45 Over 1800 miles.....87 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 1. ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS Volume IV by President Joseph Fielding Smith A new volume in President Smith's "Answers to Gospel Questions" series. This book is full of the profound scripture-backed wisdom of President Smith and answers many of the complex doctrinal questions of our time. $2.75 Volumes I, I! & Ill also available at the same price. 2. LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume | (Sections 1 - 41) by Roy W. Doxey Here is a brilliant text that offers commentary on the first forty-one sections of the Doctrine and Covenants as found in the addresses of First Presidencies, Quorums of the Twelve, and Presiding Patriarchs of the Church from Joseph Smith to the present. This is the first of a series that the author is writing. $3.95 Deseret Book is Your Headquarters for the Best in Church Literature ret cag | 'Deseret Book. Cole COM PANY Salt Lake City, Utah IE 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL Gentlemen: Enclosed please find a i SALT LAKE CITY check [] money order (] I have an j 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN > j a x. Sn —— closed__.................... For the encircled "ce ee - numbered books: 1 2 moe Vena analhsteain )\ | Address..._........---.-----.--csesescesegeve sos. Eesceeeeeeesese snees seen ne ee ————————— ZONE... Ee. Sie... Ee Readoae of Utah please add 3'2% sales tax account, please charge []. Amount en- 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA The ' Relief Society Magazine The Cover: Frontispiece: -Art Layout: Illustrations: Stnntlte. The Ske Alice Morrey Bailey | should hold you as my enemy, Remembering the smell of dust in rain, The hiss of drops in thirsty soil, the drain Of watersheds in: rivers to the sea, For | have fought as hill men always fight To keep the water on the land, the drouth With puny dams across the canyon's mouth, And tending furrows through the weary night. But | am lost in shoreless vastness, drowned In swirling blue, your ancient mystery Appeals in tongues to all not known in me, And | am mesmerized with rhythmic sound. Betrayed by fluid veins to seek your shores, | am no longer alien, | am yours. Palms and the Sea, Island of Maui, Hawaii Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Monterey Coast, California Photograph by Josef Muench Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Yom bear anid (Sor As a proselyting missionary, I have had the opportunity of assisting to organize, and to work with Relief Societies in different towns in England and Wales. I wrote to my mother about this. She is president of Relief Society in my home ward. She sent me a year's subscription to the M agazine. This offered me adventure, spirituality, and education. Within the pages of the wonderful Magazine I found all this and more. The Magazine is a wonderful missionary tool, as well. —Elder Dale S. Call British Mission I thank my Heavenly Father for the warmth, sincerity, and variety of the Magazine. How true and wise are the editorials and the articles on points of doctrine. The lessons are beautifully written. The literature is superb — the best available. —Mrs. Nedra Zitelsberger Redondo Beach, California I feel that I must take a moment in spite of my undone work, and thank you for the "Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth, in the October Magazine. For sometime, although I have hated to admit it to myself or to anyone else, I have felt so bogged down with my housewifely tasks that I haven't known what to do. The article must have been written with me in mind! My biggest problem has been that I have so many failings, I get discouraged before I even start trying to change. Now I have a practical list of things I can do. I feel there may be hope for me after all. —Mrs. Mildred Martindale Rancho Cordova, California I have just read Sister Ellsworth's "A Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and I simply must pause to let you know that I think it is truly wonderful. Our Magazine representative said, in recommending the article to us, "I wish I had read it twenty years sooner, when I was rearing my children." Most of my own children are still being reared, and they should benefit much from my reading of this article. —Mrs. Catherine M. Jaggi Brigham City, Utah I love and appreciate the Magazine, and enjoy reading the stories and poems. I have been trying out some of the recipes, and they taste real good. I especially like the cover pictures of the Magazine and the frontisPieces. I am impressed with each teacher's message. The Magazine is giving me a rich and wonderful education. —Dolly Sahadeo Corentyne, Berbice British Guiana I am so thrilled with all the wonderful articles in The Relief Society Magazine. As I am a young mother, the Magazine helps me in my home and in rearing our children. —JoAnn Slade Cedar City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine helps to strengthen my testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in his Church. The Magazine is filled with inspiring thoughts from wonderful leaders. The stories contain beautiful examples of right living. —Magree G. Schaerr Kanab, Utah the Relief Society _ - FEBRUARY 1964 VOLUME 51 NUMBER 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 84 The Influence and Responsibility of Women Harold B. Lee 90 In Memoriam — President Levi Edgar Young 91 Lenore C. Gundersen Appointed to the General Board Fawn H. Sharp 111 Heart Fund Dollars Buy Life and Hope 112 National Children's Dental Health Week 92 Mama Lives in the Kitchen — Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke 100 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 1 Hazel M. Thomson 122 Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Rosa Lee Lloyd 82 From Near and Far 107 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 108 Editorial: The Words That Women Write Vesta P. Crawford 110 Notes to the Field: Index for 1963 Relief Society Magazine Available Award Subscriptions Presented in April 129 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 160 Birthday Congratulations 114 A Valentine for My Husband Helen Hinckley Jones 116 Easy Valentine Cake Janet W. Breeze 117 Stretching the Food Budget — Part V — Wonders With Wheat Using Bulgur or Cracked Wheat Marion Bennion 121 Letty S. Mickelson Makes Appliqued Quilts for Relief Society Bazaars 0 136 Theology — The Book of Revelation Roy W. Doxey 142 Visiting Teacher Message — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me" Christine H. Robinson 144 Work Meeting — Planning Family Recreation Virginia F. Cutler 146 Literature — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer Briant S. Jacobs 152 Social Science — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church Ariel S. Ballif 81 Sonnet to the Sea — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey White Miracle, by Linnie F. Robinson, 89; Memories on a Winter Night, by Ida Elaine James, 99; Book Interest, by Pearle M. Olsen, 106; Womanhood, by Mary Brown, 111; Did the Groundhog See His Shadow? By Evalyn M. Sandberg, 112; Remembering, by Enola Chamberlin, 113; Frozen Splendor, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 141. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and-new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1934, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be retumed unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only.. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Elder Harold B. Of the Counci] of the Twely [Address Delivereg at the Genera] Session of the Relief So lety Annual eneral Conference, October 2 1963.] From th Spirit of the Opening' Whom, of Course, are the children Prayer, [| found Myself With of our Heavenly Father Something that Seems to be in I read Somewhere a Statement harmony with my thinking, With from th President of the Standreference to the tremendoys Scope ard Oil C Mpany of Indiana that "esponsibility and Influence gave me € thought. He said: womanhood Or Women in the "The fulness of life js not to be urch might ren er, first % de ermined by its length but by themselves as individuals, then to its breadth times its depth," nd, eir hus > 48 supports to as read further what he Meant their child €n, and as teachers were three things that determine nd €xemplars to the Church, the f ness of Ife: Fj t, good It was With th; thought m health is essential; Second, broad Mind that Our beloved late PregjScholastic training. When [| read ent J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said: hat I Temembereq What the late uMorist Wil] Rogers Said: "The Youth of the Church are hungry most educated Person in the or the Words of the Lord. Facachers, World is an ignorant man when re you ar Tepare to fee e. =. A of | fo whioh the tonal you set him off the subject i ings of Jesus Christ. If the live y Which he = ducated, And to the teachings they wil] have more thir, d, the depth — deep Spirituhappiness than the Ve ever ality. Hence, the fulnesg of life iatiee of on pe 4a ig determineg by good health Vi ° = to = — - fi t Cee Toad scholastj ng, and outh, as Well as older eople, we €ep Spiritualit know, are hungry for the Words of the ouldn't it be Wonderfy] for ord. 2 mother to hear her te nage son Say, when mother Sits down to It is Wonderful ¢ at we come read a boo n the art of home. To realize at within he revealed making, « er, what are y £0spel of Jesus Christ and from reading?" She answers, "T] e teachings of our Church lead am Treading about the art of home. Ers in this dispen tion, may be making." And have the son Ound the answer to very quesSay, "T couldn't ink of anyone tion and Solution to every who needs it legs » Wouldn't you Problem Ssential to the SOcia] like to have your son Say that to the temporal, and the Spiritua] you? Or, to have your f. Lly Say Welfare of human beings, all of °n some Christmas Eve when you had home night, as_ they come to kiss you goodnight, "Mother, why couldn't we have Christmas Eve every week?" Or, when mother and father at extreme expense have done something extra special in re-decorating or refurnishing the house, extending themselves to the limit, to have the family say, "You know, our home could now be the showplace of the whole community." Such is the touch of motherhood in homemaking that can be so vital in a child's life. I read the other day again the words of the sainted mother of the Prophet Joseph the night that he went to get the plates. I read her writing: On the night of September 21 I sat up very late.... I did not retire until after twelve o'clock at night. About twelve o'clock Joseph came to me and asked if I had a chest with a lock and key. I knew in an instant what he wanted it for, and not having one, I was greatly alarmed, as I thought it might be a matter of considerable moment. But Joseph, discovering my anxiety, said, 'Never mind, Mother. I can do very well for the present without it — be calm — all is right." Shortly after this Joseph's wife passed through the room with her bonnet and riding dress, and in a few minutes they left together, taking Mr. Knight's horse and wagon. J spent the night in prayer and supplication to God, for the anxiety of my -mind would not permit me to sleep. At the usual hour I commenced preparing breakfast. My heart flooded at every footstep, as I now expected Emma and Joseph momentarily and feared lest Joseph might meet with another disappointment (History of Joseph Smith, by his mother, Lucy Mack Smith, page 102). THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN I say to you mothers, if you ever have sons and daughters who amount to what they should in the world, it will be in no small degree due to the fact that your children have a mother who spends many nights on her knees in prayer, praying God that her son, her daughter, will not fail. I remember at the foolish years of my teenage life, my mother came to me with an intuitive impression and warning which I brushed off as foolish teenagers do. "Oh, mother, that's silly," I said, then within only a month, to stand face to face with the temptation about which mother had warned. I never had the courage to go back and tell her how right she was, but I was on guard because someone warned — my mother. Some years ago there was printed in the Era an interesting article under the title, "Seven Minutes in Eternity." This indicated some kind of forces that work beyond our sight. Sometimes we think the whole job is up to us, forgetful that there are loved ones beyond our sight who are thinking about us and our children. We forget that we have a Heavenly Father and a Heavenly Mother who are even more concerned, probably, than our earthly father and mother, and that influences from beyond are constantly working to try to help us when we do all we can. I will read just a few paragraphs this man writes under this heading, "Seven Minutes in Etermity":... One day in my office I took a 85 FEBRUARY 1964 package of cigarettes fom my desk. About to apply a light to one of them, I heard a voice say as gently as any worried mother might caution a careless son, "Oh, Bill, give up your cigarettes!"" And even before it had occurred to me that no one was present in the flesh to address me thus audibly, I answered: "All right!" and tossed the package into the near-by wastebasket. I went all that day without smoking. Next morning, again, I reached for my tobacco tin across my desk to load up my corncob pipe. It was knocked from my hands with a slap that tossed it upward in the air and deposited it bottom upward at my feet with the tobacco spilling out. No cautioning this time. But I knew! I haven't smoked tobacco in any form from that day to the present — this after twenty years of smoking a dozen cigars a day, lighting one from the butt of another. Moreover, I haven't had the slightest ill effect nor did I go through the agonizing torture of "breaking off." I just didn't smoke anymore — didn't have the nervous urge — didn't even give tobacco a thought. The same strange prohibition seemed to shut down on coffee, tea, alcohol, and meats. I endured not the slightest distress in giving these items up. They simply ceased to exist for me. [Mind you, this is not a member of the Church writing.] And, inversely, a strange new sensation began to manifest itself in my muscles and organs. I had the glorious feeling of physical detachment from the handicaps of bodily matter. No form of bodily exercise seemed to take energy that I had consciously to supply. I had _ always been slightly stoop-shouldered. Without any unusual exercise, my spine straightened of itself, so to speak. Along with this physical phenomena went the unexplainable faculty of withstanding fatigue. If I wearied myself by prolonged physical labor, it was the healthy weariness of boyhood that overtook me, and a sound night's sleep wrought complete readjustment. On the other hand, I found that I could sit at my typewriter twelve 86 hours at a stretch, if necessary, with hardly a muscle protesting. I had suffered consistently from insomnia ever since a period in my twenties when I worked as police reporter on a morning newspaper. Now I went to bed and to sleep. With this physical alteration came a different feeling toward those around me. This perhaps was the most astounding aftermath of the whole adventure. Certainly it appeared to have convinced my friends that some extraordinary thing had occurred, since it dramatized my rejuvenation, so to speak, and gave them something to perceive with their senses.... At any rate, whether I am right or wrong, I know that for a limited time one night last year out in California my spiritual entity left my body and went somewhere—a concrete place where I could talk, walk about, feel, and see; where answers were returned to questions addressed to physically dead people, which have checked up in the waking world and clarified for me the riddle of earthly existence. I know there is no death, because, in a manner of speaking, I went through the process of dying, came back to my body and took up the burden of earthly living again. I know that the experience has metamorphosed the cantankerous Vermont Yankee that was once Bill Pelley, and launched him into a wholly different universe that seems filled with naught but love, harmony, health, good humor, and prosperity... (Excerpts from "Seven Minutes In Eternity," by William Dudley Pelley, Improvement Era, June 1929, pp. 621-628; July 1929, pp. 713-721). Unseen forces at work can undermine, as well as strengthen our characters, and, at the same time, there are unseen forces that strengthen or threaten to destroy our homes. I read from a statement by President Joseph F. Smith, in order to impress these facts: I believe that every individual in the Church has just as much right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and the understanding from God which that spirit of revelation gives him for his own good, as the bishop has to enable him to preside over the ward. Every man has the privilege to exercise these gifts and these privileges in the conduct of his own affairs, bringing up his children in the way they should go, and in the management of his farm, his flocks, his herds, and in the management of his business, if he has business of other kinds to do; it is his right to enjoy the spirit of revelation and of inspiration to do the right thing, to be wise and prudent, just and good in everything that he does. I know that this is a true principle, and I know that I know it, too; and that is the thing I would like Latterday Saints to know.. - (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 34-35). It has sometimes been sorrowful to see respected members of the Church, men and women who should know better, to allow themselves to become the tools of seductive spirits. Such men, seem, for the time at least, to lose sight of the fact that the Lord has established on earth, the Priesthood in its fullness; and that by direct revelation and commandment from heaven; that he has instituted an order or government that is beyond the capacity, and that is superior to the wisdom and understanding and learning of man, so far, indeed, that it seems impossible for the human mind, unaided by the Spirit of God to comprehend the beauties, powers, and character of the Holy Priesthood... (Ibid., pp. 40-41). It is not the business of any individual to rise up as a revelator, as a prophet, as a seer, as an inspired man, to give revelation for the guidance of the Church, or to assume to dictate, to the presiding authorities of the Church in any part of the world, much less, in the midst of Zion where the organizations of the Priesthood THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN are about perfect, where everything is complete, even to the organization of a branch.... The moment an individuai rises up, assuming the right to control and to dictate, or to sit in judgment on his brethren, especially upon those who preside, he should be promptly checked, or discord, division and confusion will be the result. Every man and woman in this Church should know better than to yield to such a spirit; and the moment that such a feeling presents itself to them they should rebuke it as it is in direct antagonism to the order of the Priesthood and to the spirit and genius of this work. We can accept nothing as authority but that which comes directly through the appointed channel, the constituted organizations of the Priesthood which is the channel that God has appointed through which to make known his mind and will to the world (Ibid., pp. 41-42). I wish we could understand that principle, for among us are those who are spreading false doctrine, setting themselves up as authority and to receive revelations. Presumably, when you leave this conference or your stake conference, you will find plastered on your windshield literature from these apostate groups intended to confuse. You sisters must be on guard lest you, in an unguarded moment, fall prey to those sophistries. Parents, of course, have a tremendous responsibility. All that the Church may do can be considered only as secondary to the great responsibility of parenthood. Someone has said: "Parents wonder why the streams are bitter, when they, themselves, have poisoned the fountain." When I say that, I am thinking of modesty, of honesty. Dr. Sarnoff said: "The happiest people I 87 FEBRUARY 1964 have known have not been the people of great worldly wealth, achievements, or accomplishments. They have been the simple people who are happily married, enjoying good health, and enjoying good family life." I remember some while ago riding on a subway in lower Manhattan. There was a poster that showed a_ beautiful little girl, maybe six or seven, looking up into the face of a young father. They were both of them just laughing their hearts out. She apparently had told him something, and he was enjoying it, and it wasn't advertising anything. And as I looked at that happy picture, my eyes wandered down below where it asked: "Are you too old to laugh at kid stuff?'"' Well, the answer was obvious. If you are, then don't try to teach children. And then the poster declared: "Where family life ends, child delinquency begins." It has been well said that the richest. Soil, if uncultivated, produces the rankest weeds. Elder Adam S. Bennion told us about a survey that he made over years of experience with honor students at various graduation exercises, the valedictorians. And, to his amazement, he found that in the great majority of cases, those who had been thus honored, were the sons and daughters of widowed mothers, in large part. That achievement in no small part is due to the great influence of wonderful mothers. I came across a statistical study that was made of happy marriages and divorces, where it was found that the following factors have a very high statistical correlation with successful marriages. Note these: first, age twenty or more for both partners at the time of marriage; second, first date alone for both partners occurred in the late teens; third, courtship for at least nine months; fourth, no pre-marital petting or sexual relations; fifth, religious and sex instructions from parents and teachers; sixth, church membership and attendance at least three times a month. Now this was made by someone other than members of the Church. Factors that had high statistical correlation with divorce were: first, teenage marrlages; second, early dating alone, often as early as thirteen years; third, little or no religious instruction in the home or poor church attendance; fourth, most sex instruction from friends; fifth, heavy petting and sexual relations before marriage, often with persons other than the one whom they later married (a _ pretty shaky foundation on which to found a home). I heard a lovely mother, she may be here, who quoted this beautiful verse: Father, between Thy strong hands, Thou hast bent The clay but roughly into shape, and lent To me the task of smoothing where I may And fashioning to a gentler form Thy clay — To see some hidden beauty Thou hadst planned, Slowly revealed beneath my laboring hand; Sometime to help a twisted thing to grow More straight; this is full recompense, and so I give Thee but the praise that Thou wouldst ask — Firm hand and high heart for the further task. —Dorothy Littlewort (Quoted from Teaching As the Direction of Activities, by John T. Wahlquist, page 11.) In a letter written from Liberty Jail, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote to the saints: -You know, brethren, that a very large ship is benefited very much by a very small helm in time of a storm by being kept workwise with the wind and the waves. Therefore, dearly beeT) a THE INFLUENCE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF WOMEN loved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our power and then may we stand still with the utmost assurance to see the salvation of God, for his arm shall be revealed. This I pray we may all do, exerting all that lies within our powers to raise the standard and to maintain the high richness of life which the Church and gospel teachings will offer to our children and our people, and then with full assurance that God and agencies beyond our sight will stand by us to aid and to augment our humble efforts. That this may be so, I pray humbly in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ. Amen. } rae Linnie F. Robinson These are the days one never thinks will come, These days beyond the harvest, days of death; As winter spreads its frost upon the ground It makes a crystal beauty of its breath, And sends a silence, louder than the hour, Into the soul, speaking of time and change. It lays a hand upon the lips of man And stills the song upon the summer range. Yet, in the filigree of white on bough, Turning these slender trees to fragile lace, 1 long to hold back time before my face. Oh, let no sudden blast break here With black-browed fury to change this world And carry off this frosted miracle. 89 IN MEMORIAM President Lev Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy February 2, 1874 — December 13, 1963 PRESIDENT Levi Edgar Young, senior President of the First Council of Seventy, died December 13, 1963. Well loved and much respected, President Young had been a member of the Council since 1910, carrying forward a legacy of service received from his faithful forebears. Both his father, Seymour B. Young, a noted physician, and his_ grandfather, Joseph Young, a brother of President Brigham Young, lived to be senior presidents of the First Council of Seventy. Throughout his life President Young was devoted to scholarship and education. He was graduated from the University of Utah in 1895, and immediately began a teaching career that continued, alternately with mission calls, for most of his life. He served as professor of English at the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City, and later, while attending Harvard University, he became deeply interested in history and was a noted scholar and authority, particularly in the field of western history. He taught history at the University of Utah for forty years. He was president of the Utah State Historical Society for many years, and in recognition of his contributions to research, and writing and teaching of history, he was given the 90 signal honor of membership in the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a distinction usually reserved for natural scientists. He labored as a missionary in Germany, and in 1902 was named President of the Swiss Mission, becoming one of the youngest mission presidents to serve in the Church. From 1922 to 1934 he was President of the Temple Square Mission and for three years he presided over the New England Mission. The General Board and members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy and _ sisterly love to President Young's family — his wife Valeria Brinton Young, and his three daughters: Harriet Y. Kline, Jane Y. Rawson, and Eleanor Y. Van Orden, and to the grandchildren and other relatives and friends. President Young has left a resplendent heritage of faith and good works to his family and to the Church. to Ge Fawn H. Sharp Member, General Board of Relief Society Lenore C. Gundersen was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society, December 5, 1963. She exemplifies, in her everyday living, the sterling qualities of her pioneer ancestors — thrift, love, patience, dependability, courage, and a dedication to family and Church. Sister Gundersen is the eighth child of Virginia Burton Cutler and Ralph Cutler. Lenore's father and mother were active Church members, maintaining a home in which the Priesthood was always honored. Lenore states that her mother, now eighty-five years of age, has always been an inspiration to her. Lenore attended business college and served as secretary to Sister Clarissa A. Beesley of the Y. W. M. I. A. For three and onehalf years. She married Joseph A. Gundersen, November 1, 1934, in the Salt Lake Temple. They have five children, three girls and two boys, and six grandchildren. They are as follows: Joan (Mrs. Neil R. VanLeeuwen), theology teacher in the Relief Society and counselor in the district presidency of the Y. W. M. I. A. In Quantico, Virginia; Virginia, (Mrs. Robert I. Halgrin), president of the Y. W.- M. I. A. In Carlo, Montana, and a Seminary teacher; Alton Gundersen, Salt Lake City, active in the Priesthood; Thomas C. Gunder- °. Fe al ls sen, a student, who filled a mission while with his parents in Norway; Retta Jean Gundersen, a student in high school. Lenore has had the following Church assignments, among others: teacher in Sunday School; ward and stake president of Y. W. M. I. A.; ward Relief Society president, and counselor and president in the Valley View Stake Relief Society. She accompanied her husband to Norway when President Gundersen was called to preside over the Norwegian Mission. They have recently returned from this assignment. While in the mission she served as president of the mission Relief Societies. Lenore Gundersen not only brings to the General Board of the Relief Society her own humble, sweet spirit, charming personality, and dedication, but also great qualities of leadership that will benefit all of the sisters in the Church. 91 Second Prize-winning Story Annual Short Relief Society Story Contest SO abused Our house until Inda told € about it. She Said She hadn' even Tealized jt until and the Ser, said, "She's in added, "Mama lives in Which, [, to show =, Linda, as @ elegant flourish of h I didn't was impressed 80 on "It's a Shame," continued LinSets out of that One time we let her ou have a tooth pulled," e kite issie Showed us at. Out of the Mouths of babes, you might Say." "You might Say that," Said Papa. Linda "She Was o sTeater light that Ma a around her Which, in turn, was a Teflection of of our It Sounded awfully nice, eve though I Couldn't understand it all. Heaven] Y Father. Bur Linda Insisteq M an unwilling Prisoner. "What do you Propose to do ama Was FEBRUARY 1964 and wear pretty clothes and meet people. Once a journalist, always a journalist, you know. The smell of printer's ink gets into your blood." "Sounds mighty unhealthy," commented Papa. Linda had a faraway look in her eyes. "Mama used to write columns about brides and weddings, and now she lives in the kitchen and washes dishes. What a comedown!"' "Tell you what Ill do," said Papa. "T'll talk to Mama and we'll see how she feels about it. T'll tell you the verdict in a few days." Linda pestered Papa every day to find out how things were going. She said she was a woman like Mama, and she knew she would feel like a caged lioness if she were in Mama's place with no outside life like school or a job. In my mind's eye I pictured Mama pacing back and forth from room to room with a wild look in her eyes like the animals at the zoo. It made me feel a little lost and lonely to think Mama was so unhappy because she had to stay home and take care of us. She didn't seem unhappy. She sang cheerful little songs as she went about her work. Linda said that was just to keep her spirits up. ONE morning after breakfast Papa stood up. "Children," he said, ''and Linda," he added, ''unaccustomed as I am to public speaking, I would like to make an announcement. Mama is going back to work — the smell of 94 printer's ink is in her blood" — he looked at Linda who nodded knowingly — "and her old boss is putting her back on the payroll next week to replace a girl who is giving it all up to become a housewife." "Mama, that's wonderful," said Linda. "This will give you a chance to fulfill yourself." "Back to the glamor and excitement of the newspaper trade," said Mama. '"'Heigh ho and away I go. Printer's ink, here I come." Mama talked funny sometimes, too. "And I'll take over here at home," said Linda. 'The first week you are not to set foot in the kitchen except to eat breakfast." "Agreed," said Mama. Cissie, who was pouring a little mountain of salt from the shaker, looked up. "Is Linda going to be the Mama?" she asked. "No," said Mama, "T'll still be the Mama." "You can't be the Mama if you're not here," said Cissie. "T'll be home after work." "That's not the same," said Cissie. "Linda will be the Mama." Cissie even called Linda "Mama" the first day after Mama went to work. It was like playing house and Linda enjoyed playing her part. She scarcely listened to the instructions Mama gave her and wouldn't even let Mama do the week's grocery shopping on Saturday. She said we would do it on Monday. Papa's only instructions were that it would not be fair to snitch from the year's supply of food that Mama had money for th would have would need, MAMA LIVES IN THE KITCHEN vanilla, and We waited anxiously for It to bake. Linda peeked inup and Poured half 4 bottle of €rcurochrome Over the cut. It FEBRUARY 1964 blood. Cissie spent the rest of the afternoon sitting on the front porch with Mama's umbrella over her head. When Mama came home she said a tiger had bitten her under the weeping willow tree and Mama had better stay home to protect her. TuHart night we didn't have supper until late because Linda put the roast in the oven just fifteen minutes before Mama and Papa came home. She said she guessed it took a while to catch on to these things. Mama didn't say anything. She just stretched like a lady of leisure and said she thought she would read her new Relief Society Magazine and go to bed. On Thursday Linda and I spent most of the day keeping track of Cissie. She kept running away because she said Linda was too bossy, and it wasn't any fun to be home when Mama wasn't there. For dinner that night we had leftovers from the refrigerator because all our grocery money was gone and we were out of meat. On Friday Linda said we would hurry and clean up the house and then go for a swim at Lacoola Plunge if Cissie would break open her piggie bank and lend us the money, since neither Linda nor I had a cent in our banks. On second thought, she said, we would go swimming first and then come back and work. The only trouble was that we met some of our friends and stayed until afternoon. When we did get home, 96 Linda told us we'd all have to work hard if we were to get finished before 5:30. Mama's usually cheerful, clean kitchen was a shambles because we had left the dishes for two days and had not scrubbed the floor all week. Soiled clothes that we hadn't bothered to take to the laundry room were stacked up by the back door. Cissie was assigned to try to scrub the floor. She said she didn't have to since Linda wasn't the Mama and she didn't have to do what she said. Linda told her if she would cooperate we would all go down to the drugstore and have a soda, if Cissie would take a little more money from her piggy bank. We decided to go get the sodas first to give us energy for our work. By the time we got back it was nearly 3:00 p. M. Linda hurried to start the washing and ironing after telling me to cook some rice. She said since we didn't have any meat we could just have rice and pretend we were Chinese. I put a pan of water on to boil and poured in some rice. I poured in the whole package, but that didn't look like enough to feed five people, so I poured in another box. That filled the pan nicely. Cissie got a pail of water and swished the mop around in it for awhile just to hear it splash, then sloshed a lot of water on the floor and pushed it around with the mop. Suddenly I heard _ Linda scream. On my way to the laundry room I slipped and fell on the flooded floor. Cissie scolded me for getting her clean floor dirty. In the laundry room Linda was trying to push oceans of suds back into the washing machine. "T guess I used too much detergent,"' she gasped. We were surveying the disaster helplessly when we both smelled scorching cloth. Linda ran to the ironing board and snatched up the hot iron she had been using, but not soon enough. There was a large dark brown scorch mark on one of Papa's best white shirts. "What next?" wailed Linda. After unplugging the iron, she picked up the shirt and threw it into the surging suds which by now were foaming down the sides and all over the floor. Cissiz appeared at the door. "There's something all over the stove," she announced. The "something" was rice. Rice bubbled up from the pan and rice flowed down onto the stove just like the detergent flowed from the washing machine. There was enough rice to feed half of China. It took us an hour to clean up the mess. It took another hour to wash the dishes and make Mama's kitchen look presentable. Cissie had just enough money left in her piggy bank to buy five TV dinners. To replace the rice which we couldn't face eating after we had cleaned the stove. Papa didn't like TV dinners, but he ate his without a word. Linda just picked at hers. After the rest of us were through, she cleared her throat. MAMA LIVES IN THE KITCHEN "Mother," she said, and paused. Her face was getting a little red and she looked as if she might cry. "Mama," she blurted, "I can't take over your job here at home. I don't know how to be an economist, a psychologist, a chauffeur, an efficiency expert, a nurse, a chef, a ray of sunshine, and I don't know what all." She threw up her hands in despair. Mama smiled. "You don't learn it all at once, dear," she said. "It takes practice, just like any other job." "T'm a failure," Linda said with a single tear slippery-sliding down her cheek. "I didn't do one thing right all week." "She did, too, Mama," I said, feeling that a word should be said in her defense. "She did some things right." I couldn't think of any examples at the moment. L. Inpa wiped the tear from her cheek and went on. "I thought it didn't take much intelligence to run a home and that you'd be happier working at something challenging like Corrine Blake's mother." "Corrine Blake's mother works because she is a widow and has to," said Mama. "I don't have to and I don't want to because I find my job as a housewife and mother to be as challenging and fulfilling and rewarding as any outside job could ever be, and my Church work is stimulating, too. My rewards come all the time, as when my lovely daughters are so sweet and unselfish 97 FEBRUARY 1964 that they are willing to tend the house so I can go out to work because they think it will make me happier." "I'm sorry I made you go to work," said Linda. "You didn't," said Mama. "Papa told me you'd like a try at running the house and my old boss needed someone to fill in just until the new girl came. I think you gained quite a respect for the role of a housewife, and I enjoyed a few days change, so everything worked out fine. And I'm back to stay." "Really?" said Linda. More job?" "No more job. The smell of printer's ink can't even begin to compete with the aroma of cookies baking." Cissie had been _ watching Mama quietly. "Are you going to be the Mama again?" she asked hopefully. Mama reached over and gathered Cissie into her lap. "I certainly am," she said. "I'm moving "No right back into my kitchen where I belong." Cissie snuggled up to her. "And I'll be happy to move out and let an expert take over,"' said Linda. Papa laughed. "Bit off a little more than you could chew, you might say," he said. "That's the truth," Linda. "You're getting to be an adult," said Papa. '""We're proud of you. You've grown up a lot this week." Linda patted his hand. "Enough to see that if Mama wants to live in the kitchen, as Cissie says, things just couldn't be better." "Right," said Papa. "T've learned to leave well enough alone, you might say," said Linda. "You might say that," agreed Papa. We all laughed and the kitchen seemed bright and cheerful even though the sun was going down. Grinned Lar. JENSEN LITTKE was born and grew up on a farm in Mink Creek, Idaho, where her mother still lives. She was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University. "The Church has always been the center of my life," she writes, "and it has been my training ground, so to speak, in the literary arts, providing me with the opportunity to write programs, plays, road shows, readings, stories, and poems for use in the wards and stakes where I have lived. I also had the privilege of teaching the Relief Society literature lessons in Manhattan Ward for five years. "My only published manuscripts, other than some in my college literary magazine, have been one other story in The Relief Society Magazine and a short play in The Children's Friend. "We moved this past September to Monterey Park, California, from New York City, where we spent nine exciting years while my husband, George C. Littke, studied and taught at New York University. He is now Assistant Professor of Government at Los Angeles State College, and ward clerk in Monterey Park Ward. Our three-year-old daughter Lori is the joy of our lives. My greatest pleasures come from working in the Church, writing, and, of course, being a housewife and mother who enjoys 'living in the kitchen.' " 98 Don Knight BOULDER CREEK, COLORADO ida Elaine James The white moon shines on the quiet snow-capped roofs, White are the drifts along the poplar trees; Deep in my heart are softly muffled hoofs Breaking the snowy woodway's witcheries. The burdened branches loose a shapeless weight In silence where the cutter-tracks knife down The yielding snow—the rabbits perforate with pounding feet the wintry monotone. As far as the road leads, stillness and white abide, As down the heart's lane two in a cutter ride. 99 Understanding SELENA Baldwin stood by the side of the open grave in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. With her heart despairing, she felt a wave of deep, unreasoning resentment against the men, healthy and strong, who stood with shovels ready. How did the Lord decide who was to live and who was to die? Why, out of the entire camp, should she have lost the man she had planned to marry? It would not be long now, before the wagon train was ready to leave for the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. She and Belle must go on alone. 100 Chapter 1 Hazel M. Thomson Selena heard the dull thuds as the first shovelfuls of earth fell on the wooden box. She felt her sister's arm tighten around her as Belle said, "Come, Selena. We can return when they have finished." "No," said Selena. "I will stay until it is done." Her eyes were dry. She felt at that moment that she had cried all the tears she would ever have. Hadn't she, Selena Baldwin, accepted the gospel as soon as the missionaries had convinced her that it was the truth? She had accepted his word. Then why should he not bless her with this one thing she had wanted and prayed for harder than she had ever prayed before in her entire life? The grave was finished and rounded over to remind Selena afresh of the silent form within, so recently warm, loving and laughing at her side. Quietly the others withdrew, leaving only the men gathering up their tools and Belle and Selena. The shovels were all placed in the nearby wagon and most of the men climbed in. Still Selena could not bring herself to leave. One young man who had been helping walked past the two women to get a crowbar and pick. As he returned with them he paused and said kindly, "I'm right sorry, Ma'am." Selena looked at him dumbly, unable to answer. "Thank you, Sir,' answered Belle. Selena, unable to respond to the compassion in the deep blue eyes of the man, turned away. As the men drove off toward the settlement, smaller now than it had been during those first years of its occupancy by the saints, still Selena stood woodenly by the grave. At last, as it was growing dark, Belle took her arm firmly. "Come, Selena," she said. "We must go now." Selena waited a long moment. Then she answered, "Yes. We must go. From this day I do not do what I want. I do what I must." THE weeks to come dragged for Selena. She was anxious to be on YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING the trail and get the long trek underway. Winter Quarters had brought her the greatest sorrow of her life and she hated the place. "How much longer will it be, Belle?" she asked, as the month of June began. "They are waiting for some emigrants from England to join the wagon train. They left New York some days ago. As soon as they arrive we shall be on the way." "We have everything packed now, except the few things we need," Selena said. "With you taking care of the wagon, getting the tires set and new shoes on the oxen, the packing isn't much of a job." "You know how it is with me," answered Belle. "I hate being cooped up in the house, though I must confess that one ox gave me a time getting the shoes on the back feet. I had to rope him and throw him down and tie him tight before I could get it done. I'd rather shoe a horse any day of the week!" With the arrival of the emigrants the time to leave drew near, and Selena spent many hours in the cemetery beside the grave. Belle tried, without avail, to get her sister to make her visits to the graveside short, knowing the deep depression that engulfed Selena after each prolonged stay. "T'll be awfully glad to get away from here," Belle said one morning after her sister had spent much of the night sobbing quietly into her pillow. 'It's unhealthy 101 FEBRUARY 1964 for you to spend so much time in that cemetery." "T suppose you think it's easy for me to go out there every day," answered Selena. "No, honey, I don't. I know it isn't easy for you, and, since it isn't, why do it?" "Why do it? Belle! Sometimes I think you are completely without a heart. I loved him, Belle. Can't you understand that?" "Yes, Selena," answered Belle quietly. "I can understand it. Believe it or not, I can understand that you loved him." "Oh, Belle,' cried Selena, throwing her arms around her sister's neck. "I didn't mean that. I'm just not myself these days." "That's just what I mean," Belle answered. '""Why keep on torturing yourself? He wasn't worth—." Belle stopped. "You might as well say it!" Selena's voice rose to hysterical pitch. "You never did like him! No wonder you want me to forget all about him. But I won't! I never will!" Selena's voice broke in a sob. She ran from the house, and Belle watched her as she hurried down the street in the direction of the cemetery. THE last check of wagons had been taken. When the order came to get the wagons in place, that they were moving out that afternoon, Belle was not surprised. She did the last loading of their wagon and still Selena had not returned. Knowing well where Selena was, Belle yoked the oxen in place and figured to pick up 102 her sister as the wagon train moved out of town past the cemetery. A man on horseback rode up and introduced himself. "I'm Josiah Blodgett, Ma'am," he said, lifting his hat. "Is your husband about ready to start? I'm Captain of the ten you'll be traveling with. Better tell him we're about to move out." Belle mustered all the dignity she could. "I have no husband," she said. "I'm driving this outfit, and I'm ready as soon as my sister gets back." Josiah Blodgett exploded. "Gets back! You've only had months to get ready. Now we have to wait for your sister to get back!" Josiah was a small, wiry man who rode his horse as if he were part of it. Now he stood as tall in the stirrups as he could make himself. He looked at Belle through narrowed eyes. "Lon said there were a couple of females making this trip by themselves. I have the luck to draw the ten they are traveling in!" "You don't need to worry yourself about us, Brother Blodgett," said Belle, determinedly. "No! I don't need to worry about you. All I have to do is just your work and mine, too!" "You'll not be doing my work, Josiah Blodgett," said Belle, her temper rising. "I'll walk to the Great Salt Lake and pull this wagon myself before I'd accept one mite of help from you!" Josiah looked at Belle, sitting large and strong before him on the wagon seat. "And you just might be able to do it, at that," he muttered as he gathered his reins tight and started off. "Better get that sister and be ready," he called back. "Don't start delaying us until we at least get out of town." SELENA knelt on the clods of sun-baked earth for a long time. Then a cloud of dust arose and she saw many wagons moving along the road. They had started! Belle had said it might be today but she had forgotten. Selena felt a little guilty at having left everything at the last to Belle, but never once did the thought occur to her that her sister might not be ready. No man in the entire train was more efficient than Belle. Their wagon would be in place all right. Selena took a long last look at the grave, etching it in her memory, then she turned resolutely away and walked toward the road. Belle brought the oxen to a halt only for a moment while Selena climbed lightly up onto the seat beside her. Belle looked at her sister's tear-reddened eyes and did not speak until they came to the last place on the road from where the cemetery could still be seen. Selena sat small and silent without moving. Belle cleared her throat. "We will be out of sight of it in a few moments, Selena. Would you like to look back?" Selena continued to stare straight ahead. "I shall not see it again," she said, her features set. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "There is no need. It will always be there, in my mind."; Belle spoke sharply. "I have the feeling that you are being more faithful than he would be in a like situation." "You did not like him," Selena reminded her, as though speaking to a child. "You can say that if it pleases you, but you have no proof." "T...." Belle opened her mouth to say more, then she thought better of it. She called to one of the oxen instead, as Selena lapsed back into silence. Determined that she would not prove to be a drawback to the day's progress, Belle had had her oxen yoked and ready for the day's journey before anyone else in camp. The same thing was true that night. She could unyoke a team of oxen as quickly as any man in the wagon train. Since she had a special reason for wanting to do so, she made it a point to be just a little faster; to see that whenever Josiah came around of an evening, her team was already turned out to grass. They had been on the trail a week before Selena saw Lon Holiday. When she did, it took a moment before she could remember where she had seen him before. It was the deep blue of his eyes that recalled him—the young man at the cemetery on the day of the funeral. It was with an effort that Selena was able to speak civilly to him, remembering still her smoldering resentment. He nodded to Selena but directed his remarks to Belle. 103 FEBRUARY 1964 "T know Josiah can take care of his ten wagons all right but I want you to know I, too, am ready. To help in any way I can. I'm Lon Holiday and captain of fifty." WPr'reE getting along real well," said Belle, "but thanks just the same. It does seem good to know there's someone looking out for us a bit." "Well, Josiah's a good man on a wagon train. There's nothing about this kind of traveling that he doesn't know," said Lon, facing Belle, but his eyes were on Selena. "Except how to hold his tongue!" said Belle, sharply. Lon looked again at Belle and laughed. "You've had a word with him, have you?" "The first and the last," said Belle. "I've had all the words I care to have with him." "T've seen him in many a tight spot, but Josiah always finds a way out." "That's good," said Belle. "Just let him come around this wagon and he'll need to find a way out, quick!" Lon rode on toward the end of the wagon train, chuckling. "Now there is a man," said Belle, "one that you could depend on. Somehow I feel quite a bit easier, to know that our getting to the Valley doesn't depend upon the leadership of Josiah Blodgett." Selena did not answer, and Belle had the impression, as she 104 often did, that she was concerned little with the present. From that night on Lon Holiday made it a point to call at the Baldwin wagon each evening to offer his services. Selena answered briefly but very definitely each time that there was nothing he could do. Then one evening he came just as Belle was replacing the brake block that had come loose and fallen out. He took the axe from her capable hands and cut the stump of a tree she was working on, to size, and drove it in between the iron cleats. "There," he said, as he finished wedging the block in tight. "That ought to hold you for awhile. Better not tell your sister I helped. She might not ride in the wagon if she knew I fixed the brake block." "It isn't you particularly, with Selena," said Belle. "She's having a bad time. The best thing anyone can do right now is leave her pretty much to herself. Where are your folks, Lon?" "They couldn't accept the truth," answered Lon. 'After I joined the Church, they. Couldn't accept me, either. They are still living, back in Massachusetts. And I am not welcome." "That's a coincidence," said Belle. "Same with Selena and me. Our folks couldn't believe it either, but we both knew the missionaries were teaching the truth, and we had to come." "You and Selena. I still find it strange to think the two of you are sisters." "Tt surprised you, did it? I'm not surprised. Everyone finds it hard to believe, what with Selena being dark and so much smaller and, well, just prettier than I am. No one has ever taken us to be sisters, or for that matter, been hardly able to believe we were once they found it out." "Oh, I didn't mean..." began Lon, embarrassed by the turn the conversation had taken. "Tt doesn't matter," replied Belle, getting to her feet and picking up the axe, as Lon rode off. At the evening dances around the campfires, Selena and Belle usually sat together, watching rather than dancing, but for entirely different reasons. Selena would have none of the gaiety and laughter and few of the young men were anxious to ask Belle. "T did. Just once," said John Meeks, "and that was enough. Why, she'd like to have picked me up and swung me clear off the ground every time the caller said 'Swing your partners.' I just don't think it's safe." This warning, coupled with the natural disinclination of the other young men to have Belle for a partner, kept her watching rather than taking part in the dancing. Any young man in the camp would have been pleased to dance with Selena. Many of them asked her at the beginning, but her repeated refusals were sufficient to discourage the most eager of the dancers. It almost angered Selena to see others gay and happy with the YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING memory of her own sorrow fresh and new. "Why do they have to dance so much?" she asked Belle as they sat in front of their wagon, the music filling the night air. "T should think once in awhile would be enough, but no, it's every single night except Sunday." "They need to dance, Selena," Belle answered. ''They have all had just as hard a day as we have. They need to relax." "That's just what I mean." Selena spoke heatedly, "Only day before yesterday old Brother Christiansen was buried along the way. And here they are, again tonight, dancing as though nothing had happened." "We can't just give ourselves up to grief and sorrow, Selena." Belle arose and stood tall beside her sister. "No one can keep on living with just memories." "Belle!"' Selena cried. ''How can you be so cruel?" She whirled, running toward the back of the wagon as Lon came around it from the other direction. She bumped hard against him and he caught her in his arms, steadying her a moment to keep her from falling. "I'm sorry," he apologized, and drew back as she regained her footing. "Let me alone!" she cried. "TI came at the wrong time, it seems," said Lon to Belle. "Seems like I always show up at the wrong time, as far as Selena is concerned." "There's never a right time to 105 FEBRUARY 1964 be around Selena these days," answered Belle. "T'd like to be of more help. You're too efficient, Belle. I'd feel a lot better if I could do something for the two of you." Belle looked at him squarely. "You mean for Selena." It was a statement, not a question. Lon did not evade it. "Yes, I do," he said. "But you are her family, Belle. I mean for you, too." Belle was quiet for a long moment, watching the dancing. ''So that's the way it is." "That's the way it is," said Lon quietly. "That's the way it has been ever since I first saw Selena, back there at the grave in Winter Quarters." After a time, Belle spoke again. "It will take a long time, Lon." "I have plenty. Someday I mean to marry Selena." (To be continued) Pearle M. Olsen I always like to read a book And lose my sense of here. Books help me know of other folks Another place... Another year. | learn of new and unknown lands — Some I may never see, And things that happen in a book Are happening to me. | know just why I like to read — Of course I think it's fun, Yet, by the printed word | can See through the eyes of anyone. I listen to the things folks say, And sense the way they feel. | learn so much of what they know — All these things books reveal. I love to live vicariously Through books, within my niche. | save on travel and expense — Yet my experiences are rich. 106 Mirs. Sarah Tilghman Hughes — since 1935 Judge of the Fourteenth District Court of Dallas — swore in Lyndon Baines Johnson as President of the United States, on the plane returning the body of President Kennedy to Washington. Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. Kennedy stood near the new President. Judge Hughes was the first woman to become a district judge in Texas. She served three terms in the lower house of the Texas legislature, and once was unanimously voted by the newsmen covering the legislature the most valuable member of the body. In 1952 she was endorsed for the United States vice-presidential nomination by the National Federation of Business and Professional Women. Acnks de Mille, a great American choreographer, is the author of The Dance (Golden Press), which traces the development of dancing in its many forms — theatrical, social, ritualistic. IIlustrated with 400 pictures, the book presents a discussion of the work of such famous dancers as Isadora Duncan, Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, Carlotta Grisi, and Margot Fonteyn. Ramona W. Cannon Ciaupia Taylor (Lady Bird) Johnson, the new First Lady of the United States, has been an unusually capable helpmate to her husband in his political, social, and personal life. Nevertheless, she has retained a strong individuality of her own. An honor student in journalism at the University of Texas, she has continued to be an omnivorous reader, an intelligent observer of the world around her, and a woman of empathy for human beings. She learned Spanish as a communicating link with other peoples. She excels as a homemaker and hostess, and her business acumen has stretched an inheritance into a comfortable fortune, principally by way of radio and television enterprises. The Johnsons have two daughters, Lynda Bird, nineteen, and Lucy Baines, sixteen. Dr. Elizabeth J. Bottcher is assistant chief of pathology at the Salt Lake City, Utah, Veterans Administration Hospital. One of the best known pathologists in the United States, she was formerly associated with the Rochester Hospital in New York. 107 EDITORIAL The Words That Women Write A woman in her home may find a recreation and a hobby, as well as continuing joy in recording her thoughts, her hopes, and inspiration, and the history of her beloved family. The words that she writes ) may be in the form of letters to the dear ones in the home of her girlhood, to her husband's cherished people, to her children or grandchildren away at school, or in the mission field. She may inscribe for future generations the family faith, and the coming together of the intellectual legacies of ancestors remote in the stream of time. The woman who finds that words move easily from her mind | to the written page, may hope that her talents and inclinations can | be developed beyond the lovely art of letter writing and record, keeping, to the more formal composition of poetry and essays and stories — more ambitious writings, intended for an audience beyond the family circle. One whose written words are to be treasured over the generations must be close to the deep springs of life — close to the world of nature — the earth home — close to flowers and trees and the majesty and symbolism of mountains — near to the stark somberness of the desert and akin to the greening furrows and the golden harvest. This is the objective, lovely, beckoning world that can be interpreted through a gifted individual who is grateful for her tenure upon the earth — stirred by the moods of clouds and wind and rain — and the silent winter of snow. In addition to self-expression from a personal interpretation of the natural environment, a writer needs to strive for an awareness of the weakness and the strength, the joy and the sorrow, the hopes and the relinquishing that characterize the developing human spirit. 108 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselat Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Some women have an empathy and discernment that glow as a light upon them; and others, perhaps more withdrawn, must cultivate their ability to enter into the lives of others and try to understand their problems, as they desire to set their pens to words which they hope will enrich and uplift the lives of others. The joy a woman finds in self-expression gives her a glance into a wider world, for she soon realizes that self-expression can have a broader meaning if it is disciplined, upward-reaching, and forever growing. There must be knowledge and experience in the use of words — how they may be put together for specific purposes and molded into authentic form and living strength. The rich heritage of all ages is available in the countless writings that have blessed the generations. The Bible speaks forever in inspired words of power and sublime beauty — "fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind, fulfilling his word.... He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names." The Book of Books can be a schooling and an ever-present help to one who would set in words the certitudes of life here and hereafter. Poetry and prose of the ages, and down to the present time, if carefully chosen, can yield a rich background and make the fountain of words resplendent with many jeweled facets. A woman in her home, even in the short periods of comparative quietude, may take her pen in hand and draw upon her wide thoughts, her limitless environment, her family, her friends, and the gospel light, and may build with words her house of truth and beauty. —V. P. C. 109 Cortes of the 1963 index for The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1963 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. (See advertisement on page 159.) The Deseret News Press includes a copy of the index at no extra charge for each set of Magazines bound. THE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1963 will be mailed to ward and stake, mission and branch Magazine representatives about April 1, 1964. Even the desire to do our best brings hope and the beginnings of happiness. How rich then may be the rewards when desire is followed with good works. —Pauline Bell 110 The American Heart Association As wives and mothers, women are the guardians of family health and welfare. They know the heartbreak of helping youngsters struggle against the handicaps of rheumatic fever or inborn heart defects, of caring for aged parents overcome by stroke. Too often they know the loneliness of widowhood when — sometimes without warning — husbands are felled by heart attack. That is why so many voluntarily serve in community-wide rheumatic fever prevention programs — why mothers whose children have recovered from heart operations offer friendly, sympathetic encouragement to parents of youngsters with heart defects; why wives and mothers have made the hope of recovery at home a reality for hundreds of thousands of cardiac children, heart. Attack, and stroke victims. It is a cause that women take to their hearts, year after year. Heart fund dollars help to pay for life-saving advances in treatment of heart attack, high blood pressure, strokes, rheumatic fever. New techniques of diagnosis and surgery for inborn heart defects have created hope where none existed. Heart fund dollars buy life and hope. Mary Brown How fortunate, a woman I was born, Although | doubt that men can understand Why we accept our lot rather than scorn The fact that they're our masters, in command. In viewing life just merely with the eye, Men seem to reign in stature and in state. But spiritually they lack, and this is why For happiness complete they need a mate. So God created women to give birth, That every living soul may draw a breath. And to fulfill his plan for life on earth, Then call us back to him through mortal death. And so, you see, we walk right by his side, And thus accept our womanhood with pride. Note: The author of this poem is seventeen years old. 111 Nationas Children's Dental Heaith Week jaw telationship in early youth can have immeasurable benefits t Toughout life The Most critica] Period of dental] development occurs during the change from the Primary to the Secondary dentition, ot only Will the biting and chewing Process benefit With Proper orthodontic treatment, but in the absence of Marked Malocclusion There js 4n Oak UPon the hillside Beneath Which | would fie While Cotton-cang Cumulus This Must be summer 8ladness Come Carlier this year. 112 the Home Remembering Enola Chamberlin When in your heart the hours are long, And clouds brood low above the trees, Remember days of summer song And sun and shadow filigrees. Remember robins, red of vest, And dogwood bushes all in bloom, The sunlight on the mountain crest, A lily's white perfume. Remember dawns that spread like flowers, With pearl and opal coloring — As drouth-dry earth remembers showers, As winter winds remember spring. 143 and for love. Ox at Schoo] was anta Clays and his false SO much like Brother H, nuts, hri Mas with his hearty t Sounded of Candy and Uunshelleq On Valentine', d I nt anyone in our Schoolroom SO we Proudly Slipped 4 valentj f the Class in t r I me for every All day re; animation in the — all of these were upon Wallpaper "boughten" valentines —_ illed With loy Others, and if w had I rs. 114 attracted to one perfect person. Valentine's day was for us a day of affirmation. It was a day that made us feel important and worthwhile because we meant something special to somebody who mattered. But now, my dear husband, we have put away childish things. We still are made happy by the affection and regard of all of our acquaintances and friends. We still need assurance that the people we care for care for us. But now there is something richer, deeper, more mystic, more mysterious. There is love. No one can really define love. We can describe its symptoms, but we can't explain it. We know what it isn't, but we can't know fully what it is. Where words end, love begins. How lucky we are, you and I, that we can feel the things we cannot speak. How very lucky I am that I can feel love for you and know deep inside myself that you feel love for me. Where is love born? "Deep in unfathomable depths." But once the seed of love was planted deep it was nurtured by shared joy and shared disappointment, by shared successes and shared failures. People must laugh together, and cry together, too, to bring love to bloom. These we have done. The babies we lost brought us together in sorrow, the daughters we have reared have bonded us in joy. And in sorrow or joy we have felt the spirit of each other and have said, '""We thank thee, God, that our union is eternal." More poets have written about love than any other subject, yet what have they said? They have agreed that it is the mystery of life, the surge and swell of the heart that makes living in this world an ecstacy. "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways...." And so, even on Valentine's day I can't tell you what you mean to me, how my heart lifts when you come home, how things in the world have new vitality because we are together. I can only plead in the most ordinary way, "Be my Valentine." 115 Other's king day is Iways evidence of love toward ungry family, but this tre t is mo e than j St e idence. It even look lik token of love SPecia] Wlpment y €ded for this art-shaneq dessert is one eight Inch Square cak tin Ne eight-inch round cake tin. Use th in Which to bake your favorite cak Whe the cake js Cool, cut the Tound | yer in h f. These alves make the top Sides of the heart Th Square laye Placed at diamond 1 forms the bottom f the eart TTange the cake on a large Plate or ay, first Placing Smal] Paper doilies 4round th Cake 4 form a lacy backgroy d No frost the cake Dink d prett h N0-cook valentine icing, topped With Sprinkles f Coconut, fo Special f ly treat that looks 800d enough 4 Part No-Cook Valentine Icin y, tsp. Sait 2 €88 whites he Sugar Yc. Corn syry ly, tsp. Fi Voring Ted food flavoring Add Salt to €88 whites and beat to soft Peaks. Gradual Y stir in sugar and beat until Shiny. Continue beati 8 and add corn gradually Beat until icing tands in fairly f; Peaks, F Id in f avoring d food col ng. 116 Part V—Wonders With Wheat Using Bulgur or Cracked Wheat Foops Made from Wheat are grows easily in Soils and Climates Popular and Widely used today in Many areas of the World. It in Many parts of the World, Bread Stores easily, [+ has high food of life," and it jg Certainly Well or milled Wheat, on Wetting and deserving Of this title. Its presMixing, 81Ve rise to gluten Which ence or nce, as ll ag lts jg Stron and elastic d Makes quality, have j; fluenced histo Possible yea t-leaveneg light through hy Centuries, In the loaf of bre €se should cer. Nited es to there IS tainly be gs fficient €asons for available a reat variet of good its Popularit 00d, a he aver 8 American Wheat and eat Products eats Many of these f, ds in ad Provide yg co Parative] dition ea Wever, in expensive oure Calories Merica, foods made from Whe and protej In Imited ami] man, while in some European form of these Products Should be Countries, the Wheat Products Carefully Chose n, Unenricheg are nearly twice as great. White flour or bread, for instance, he Progenitor of our Wheat Is not a 800d buy _ either eco. FEBRUARY 1964 ucts are being used in fairly large amounts. Wheat may be used in many delightful ways for family meals. It may be used whole, cracked, or ground into flour. If you have eaten in an Armenian restaurant you may have been served a delicious golden pilaf made from pre-cooked and dried wheat called bulgor or bulgur. Bulgur wheat has been a staple in the diets of the peoples of the Middle East for many centuries. It has been produced commercially in the United States for a number of years and is gaining favor with American consumers. It is also being shipped abroad to foodshort countries. When bulgur is used in a variety of dishes it has the advantages of cooking more rapidly than whole or cracked wheat, and it may also have developed a delightful flavor from its precooking and drying process. The Western Regional Research Laboratory at Albany, California, has developed a large number of recipes using bulgur. You may be able to purchase commercially prepared bulgur or, if you are storing your own supply of whole wheat, you may enjoy preparing your own. To Make Bulgur Wheat 1. Wash wheat in cool water and discard water. 2. Boil wheat in excess water until all water is absorbed and wheat is tender — 35 to 45 minutes, usually. 3. Spread wheat thinly on cookie sheet or shallow pan and dry in oven at 200° F until very dry so that it will crack easily. 4. Wet surface of dried wheat slight- 118 ly and rub kernels between hands to loosen and remove chaff. 5. Crack wheat in moderate-size pieces, using mill or grinder or even a mortar and pestle. In some cases the wheat may be used whole, giving a very chewy product. 6. This processed bulgur is easily stored and may be used in any of the following recipes. If the recipe calls for cooked bulgur simply boil in water for 5 to 10 minutes, whereby it will approximately double in volume. If bulgur is not available or you do not care to make it yourself, you may substitute regular cracked wheat with satisfactory results. In either case, try serving wheat pilaf with a meat and vegetable plate. It has a sweet, nutlike flavor and crunchy texture your family should like very much. Or the wheat will make an excellent meat extender when used in the meat loaf, Swedish meat balls, Mexican bulgur chili, or chicken curry pilaf recipes. Cooked and chilled bulgur may be added to your favorite cole slaw recipe for a most interesting and enjoyable salad. In fact, almost the only limit to its use is your imagination. Bulgur, soaked overnight in salt water, may be added to yeast rolls for a nut-like flavor and texture. It is also used in the raisin bar recipe. Using wheat in another form, that of flour, by making bread at home, may mean a savings of food money, especially if flour and yeast are purchased in large quantities and bread is a mainstay of the family fare. If whole wheat is part of your food storage plan, you will undoubtedly can be lots of Ost people 1 "SPecially for the fa ly when the bread first omes out of the Oven. There jg absolutely nothing quite like the arom Watering flavor of fre. Experiences With food are often € center of Values d feelings which have nothing to 0 with €Clpes wil] give I hope you will try crunchy pilaf is desired,. I¢ is SUggested that Cooked Whole bulgur be Used in place Of the Cracked (Uncooked) bulgur. Make s. 2 tsp, Worcestershire Sauce drippings with ] 119 MEXICAN BULGUR CHILI 2 thsp. Oi 1 Ib, 9round beef % eo. Chopped Onion 4 tsp. Garlic sqft TOwned Blend jn the Cooked 5 Sur and th remainder 5 the 'Ngredients Cover and Simmer for about 7 Our, Stirring °Ccasiong] ly Makes 6 to Servings CHICKEN CURRY PILAF Ye. Shortening Y «, chopped Onion ©. Cooked bulgur T pkg. Yeast, active dry or compressed yeast Te, warm wate, (lukewarm for compressed yeast) % «. Oil 1 egg, slightly beaten °2Z. Sharp cheddar Cheese le can) tung fish (chunk Style) Paprika at 375° for 30 browned and bubbly, Makes 5 to 6 Se CHAPTER 8 ( Conclusion) L. UANA was clearing the breakfast table, after the children had gone to school, when Millie Togo came in through the bamboo curtains. Her smile was a white flash in her golden brown face. She had brought her baby wrapped in the white embroidered silk robe that Emma Lu had purchased in San Francisco. "Oh, let me hold him!" Margaret exclaimed, reaching for him. "Precious!" she murmured when Millie placed him in her arms. "Too precious for words!" Millie looked at Tutu who was busy at her work table making a fresh supply of poi. "Tutu," she said, in her silken voice, "it's my day to read to the blind... And here I am without a baby sitter. Could you...?" 122 Tutu shook her head. "T am sorry, Millie. Today, Luana takes me to the doctor. I'd be glad to do it any other time." "Oh, Millie — let me!" Margaret called out in her gay voice. "Emma Lu will be here, too. We'll take good care of him." "T'd be so grateful," Millie said. "It's the first time I've been anywhere since he was born. Mike said I could stop at the shops and buy something new." Her eyes were black stars. "Ti bring his formula." "Run along," Luana laughed. "Have a happy day, your baby is in good hands, Millie." Iv was after three o'clock before Luana and Tutu started for Dr. Hartford's office in the second- hand convertible. They had nicknamed the car "Old Jig-Saw," because Phil said it was a puzzle which way it was going to move — forward, or up and down. "Time just slipped by," Luana told Tutu as they jogged along the highway. "But it was such fun! When there is a baby in the house, he is the center of everything." Tutu laughed softly. "The little king had us all bowing to him," she said, "even Margaret. She never let go of him." Luana drew a long tremulous breath. "Speaking of Margaret," she said, "she has chosen the place for her painting...." Her voice faltered. "... My lagoon, Tutu." Silence hung between them. Luana kept her eyes on the highway. "T know," Tutu said at last. "She showed me her painting this morning. She must have worked all night and many nights before." "I saw her," Luana said in a fierce, tight little voice. "My lagoon! Tutu — I can't bear it!" Tutu's arm was tender and warm around her shoulders. "She has an artist's eye, too," she said gently. "It was inevitable that she would paint the lagoon once she had seen it. But take heart, my Luana," she added consolingly. "Although her painting has the touch of the professional, more perfection of line and perspective than yours has, still yours has a freshness and feeling that some professionals have forgotten — qualities that KISS OF THE WIND win prizes. If I were a judge, I would give yours the prize, Luana. Margaret's painting has a yearning quality — a searching — but yours has fulfillment, like a woman who has known every rich gift of life." "Thank you, Tutu," Luana murmured. "I need to win that money so very much. And I think a painting of that lagoon will win." "Yes," Tutu conceded, in her thoughtful way. "A painting of that lagoon has a good chance to win." Dr. Hartford was a large, hearty man who radiated hope and courage to all his patients. After examining Tutu, he beamed down at her. "So you went on a hill slide Saturday," he said. "Well, it gave your heart a healthy bounce. Now, remember, I'm not recommending this for my heart patients, but for you it was very good. You're better than you have been for sometime. What could have done it besides that slide?" Tutu's blue eyes twinkled into his. "I have much to live for, Dr. Hartford. My work is not yet finished here." "You are a real trooper!" he said, patting her shoulder. "Hawaii has won her Statehood through such characters as you and your family. I remember your husband, John Benjamin Harrington. A man of spirit and courage. He was devoted to Hawaii." "Yes," she said. "I wish he 123 FEBRUARY 1964 could have lived until Statehood was achieved. He worked for that." Dr. Hartford looked at Luana who was standing by them. His eyes narrowed, quizzically. "I wish I could Say you look as perky as your Tutu. But you seem a bit languid to me. I want to check you over right now." Own the way home in the late afternoon, Tutu leaned against Luana's shoulder and slept as peacefully as a child. Luana did not awaken her until they turned into the plantation lane. She stopped the car a block from the house and parked it beneath a leafy banyan tree. The sun was coral and gold through its branches. "Tutu," she said softly, as Tutu opened her eyes and sat up. "I have something to tell you — something almost too wonderful to talk about." "IT know, my darling," Tutu's voice was a hushed lullaby. "T saw the light in your eyes when you came from Dr. Hartford's private office. I saw the glory in your smile as though the wind had kissed you." "A baby...." Luana whispered, "another baby to love and care for. What a heavenly blessing to have a baby when you are forty-three!"' "God's blessing," Tutu answered. "Now when Emma Lu is married and goes to the Mainland to make her home, and Philip leaves for New Zealand, we will have our new baby to plan for. I must live a long time 124 now, Luana, to help you and Ben." Luana's breath was a sigh of happiness. "My darling Ben," she said, "what another baby will mean to him, joy beyond words!" "The sun reddens," Tutu reminded her, "almost dinnertime." Dreamily Luana started the car, and they rode home in quiet wonderment. "T will change my dress and help you," Tutu said, as they hurried down the hallway toward their bedrooms. Hearing voices in Emma Lu's room, they hesitated near the half-open doorway. Someone was sobbing. Margaret's voice came brokenly. "Oh, Emma Lu, having Millie's baby today brought it all back — all the yearning for a baby of my own. I would give anything — anything — for a baby...." Luana leaned against the door frame. She felt weak and sick all over. Tutu did not move or speak. "IT paint so much and so desperately," Margaret went on. | give all my creative urge to my art, because I have nothing else. I know that is the reason our Heavenly Father has helped me to be successful. Oh, I realize that creating art or music or beautiful writing is God's gift to us, too, but motherhood is the greatest gift. Mothers are cocreators with God. Oh, Emma Lu, no one knows how I long for a baby of my own." Luana looked at Tutu. Their eyes met and lingered with tears of compassion. Then each went quietly to her own room' and closed the door. Margaret must never know that they had heard her bare her heart to Emma Lu. Dinner at the Harrington's was always a gay affair. Luana, with a little pang, could see that Margaret was trying to be extra gay. Her voice was too high, her smile too tremulous. Emma Lu, Pixie, and Philip had gone to a Mutual party at the meetinghouse, but the rest of them lingered at the dinner table with an extra helping of Tutu's date tarts. "I think I'll learn the hula while I'm in Hawaii," Margaret said. "That will surprise Tom when he comes for me." "Try to hula with bamboo sticks," Benjy said. "You can beat the rhythm that way." "Or a feather gourd," Bo told her. "They rattle. We'll show you, Aunt Margaret." "You darlings!" She smiled at them. "Taking time out to teach your aunt. But everyone on the Mainland will expect me to talk about the fun in Hawaii." Ben leaned back in his chair, folding his arms across his chest, "Margaret," he said, "forgive me if I say this again. Tell the folks on the Mainland that we don't play all the time in Hawaii. I want to show you the fields of Sugar cane and the refineries that employ thousands of workers. There are towns built by the big corporations who own the pine and sugar industries. You must see the coastal villages and the KISS OF THE WIND fishing canneries. We have huge farms of wheat and grain and cattle ranches that equal anything in Texas." "We have cowboys," Benjy told her. "They're like real cowboys anywhere, only they wear leis of feathers around their hats. Bo and I saw them, didn't we, Daddy?" "Yes, son," Ben answered. "We must take Aunt Margaret to the out-of-the-way places where men like old Hamana still make canoes from koa wood." "And he carves ornaments, too," Bo chimed in. "He does indeed," Ben nodded. "Especially when he finds a piece of sandalwood, which is mighty scarce these days." Ben's eyes smiled into hers. "What I'm trying to Say is this, Margaret. The real people of Hawaii, like the real people anywhere in the world, are busy, ambitious people, with a purpose in life. It is generally the visitor who plays all the time. The rest of us are too busy earning a living and helping our fellow men. The hula, the ukulele, and surf-riding are all a part of our recreation, but they are not everything, as some of the Mainlanders think they are." "Ben is right," Tutu said, looking at Margaret. "There is much work to do in Hawaii. I've been wondering if you would like to go with me tomorrow to the island of Molokai?" Margaret wet her lips. Then she lifted her head, smiling at 125 FEBRUARY 1964 Tutu. "Well — yes. Yes, I would, Tutu." "There is a little boy there I want you to see," Tutu went on, casually. "You are such a fine artist, I am sure you will appreciate him. He is a three-yearold Haole boy, and he has the most beautifully formed face I have ever seen. The bone structure is perfect. His eyes have an expression no one can forget. A portrait of him could be a masterpiece, Margaret." "Oh, I'd love to see him,"' Margaret said. "I've been searching for a subject for a portrait." "He is an orphan," Tutu explained. "Some of his relatives have taken care of him s'nce his parents were killed, fishing on the shark coast." "His name is Joa," Benjy said. "Tutu says he can sing already." Luana pretended to eat her tart. She knew Tutu was trying to help Margaret, by interesting her in little Joa. Luana's heart quickened. Some way, somehow, she, too, must help Margaret. After family prayers together, Luana went from one room to another, as she always did, to say goodnight to each of her children. Pixie was seated at her cretonne-skirted dressing table brushing her short, clipped hair. "It's growing, Mama, look! I like it cut off this way — it's almost curly." "Tt is!" Luana agreed. "You're so cute with it short." P ixie's face sobered. "Mama — have you noticed — my teeth are 126 straighter? I don't need braces — really. Remember what Dr. Williamson said when you first took me to him — that once in a blue moon teeth like mine adjust themselves? Maybe I've found the blue moon — anyway I'm not afraid to smile anymore." Luana looked at her quizzically. Her teeth were straighter — almost pretty when she smiled. "All the girls like my _ hair," Pixie went on. "I'm glad now that Daddy made me cut if off, and had it fixed my natural color." "I'm glad, too," Luana murmured, kissing her fresh young cheek. "Sweet dreams, dear." Benjy and Bo, in their twin beds, were whispering together as she entered their room. "Hello!" Benjy said, lifting his face for her kiss. "Bo says that now we're thirteen we should earn money after school, so we can help Phil on his mission. We could work in the pine cannery." Luana sat down beside Bo. She always tried to share her attention equally between them, but Benjy was more openly demonstrative than Bo. Kisses to Benjy were as natural as breathing, but they were very special to Bo. "Phil would appreciate that," she said. "Then, when it's your turn for a mission, he can help you. But your Daddy must be the one to decide what jobs would be best. Remember you have your daily work to do for him here, on the plantation." "Sure," Bo agreed. "Our Daddy knows about everything." Luana nodded. 'He knows heart of my h until he fel] Walking thoughtfully to Emma How Much was She Willing to Prove her love? Was she aS noble 48 she had taught her children to be? Toom. The blinds were drawn. The room was dark, Tutu Slept soundly. Luana Went quietly to the closet for her Painting and Carried it to her own room. And placed It upright ON a chair before; turning h ight go It flooded OVer its Colorin "So that Was the Teason!" he "You knew?" She asked inStruck. Not my Luana. It had to be Something Worthwhile. I Suessed jt Was this, No doubt 127 FEBRUARY 1964 you will send it to the McDougal Contest." With a little sigh, Luana pressed her head against his shoulder. She told him about Margaret and her painting, and how she and Tutu had heard her heartbreaking talk with Emma Lu. Then she told him how the children were willing to sacrifice for each other, and she felt that she should sacrifice for Margaret because she truly loved her. "T want to help her, darling. So I have decided not to send my painting to the contest. Now, I can really say that I hope she wins it." Ben's hands were firm on her shoulders as he turned her so that his wise, unflinching eyes looked steadily into hers. "You have your values crossed, my darling," he said. "This sounds like a very noble sacrifice on your part, but I do not approve of it. No one should sacrifice his ability to create. We believe in using and making the best of our God-given talents. You should not sacrifice it for Margaret or anyone else. I know you love your brother and _ his wife, and that you are deeply compassionate because they have no children. I am, too. But there is always the danger that a sacrifice of the kind you suggest will not only destroy your own efforts to be successful, but it might weaken the very person you are trying to help. You have done a magnificent job — I say you should enter it in the contest.' His eyes crinkled. "It might be 128 that neither of you will win. Who knows? The important thing is to realize that neither your real happiness nor Margaret's depends on that contest. There are better ways for you to help Margaret. If you keep your painting out of the contest, you might go through life thinking you could have won. You might get a complex about it. Margaret has won many contests. That isn't what she really needs. Tutu has found the right way to make her help herself. A child to care for and sacrifice for is what she and Tom really need. Let's hope they take the little boy." Luana met her husband's eyes in a long, lingering look of love and understanding. Ben was positive and strong, but full of gentleness, "You are right," she said. "I will mail my painting tomorrow." "You should," he said. 'That painting is a miracle." Luana was smiling as her lips touched his cheek. "A miracle," she whispered. "I have a greater miracle to tell you about. The greatest miracle in the world. Another baby — for us." She felt him breathe deeply, and his hand smoothed her dark hair. "My wife," he said, tenderly, "my Luana. Bless you, my darling. I feel humble and yet so proud. I could touch the stars." "T know," she murmured. ""We have always touched the stars — together." Genera] Sectetary-Tre SUNT bang sould De sea Wevsiegriy SOvemun ge tlhe 'lininyy) uf rere | > dia Now just lo) € touched th nting thirty-five TeMany differ i omen can b Tough our inter-faith Socials," 129 Ww religions there FEBRUARY 1964 May 12, 1963 Standing at the left in the front row, Geraldine Twitty, chorister, and next to Sister Twitty, is Genevieve Johnson, President of the Columbus Second Ward Relief Society, who served as organist; Alice L. Wilkinson, member of the General Board of Relief Society, stands at the right in the front row, and Farel Rush, President, Columbus Stake Relief Society, stands at the right in the second row. Sister Rush reports that this occasion marked the first stake performance of this group of Singing Mothers. Five ward Relief Society presidents and four stake board members, in addition to Sister Rush, are represented in the chorus. June 4, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Laura Cutler, Second Counselor, in charge of the social science presentation; Mollie Richardson, First Counselor, in charge of the fashion show; President Russell C. Taylor of Denver West Stake Presidency; Della H. Teeter, President, Denver West Stake Relief Society. Sister Teeter reports: "On June 4, 1963, Denver West Stake held an inter-faith meeting and fashion show, with the theme 'A Woman's World.' The social science presentation of 'God So Loved the World' was portrayed with the stake Singing Mothers furnishing the music. The chorus was directed by Leah Greenberg, with Sally Guillian as accompanist, Betty Butterworth as vocal solist, and Ivagene Thompson as violin soloist. Addresses were given by Sister Teeter and President Taylor. The fashion show, with seventy-two participants, was an end result of a basic sewing course conducted by the stake Relief Society under the leadership of Elma Walker. There were approximately 300 present, including known representatives from forty-six other churches. We enjoyed a delightful social hour in the cultural hall, with displays of the four lessons by stake class leaders." April 28, 1963 Front row, left to right: Lynne Despain, organist; LeDeane Cobabe, chorister; Ruth Witty, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society; Jena Westover, First Counselor; Doris Phillips, Second Counselor; Irene Buehner, member, General Board of Relief Society; Norma Nichols, of the General Board of the Primary Association. Sister Witty reports that the Redondo Stake Singing Mothers have presented the music for many occasions, including a fashion show in cooperation with the Mutual Improvement Association, the visiting teacher convention, and closing social, April 19, 1963, and stake quarterly conference April 28, 1963. The above photograph was taken immediately following stake conference, 130 L pr rrtin = 0 669 J. P: her ey Sf FEBRUARY 1964 Orem Stake (Utahi, Orem Seventh Ward Presents 'Relief Society Hall of Fame" ¢ memorating tt Birthday of Relief Society March 13, 1963 Left to right: First Counselor LaRee H. Brough as Emma H. Smith; Bella Evans as Eliza R. Snow; Minnie E. Hill as Zina D. H. Young; Marilyn Van Leuvin as Bethsheba Smith; Lola Wilberg as Emmeline B. Wells; Mable Williamson as Clarissa S. Williams; Karilin Robb as Louise Y. Robison; Second Counselor Emma S. Nicholes as Amy Brown Lyman; Ward Relief Society President Vanza J. Ekins (in frame at the right) acted as narrator and created the presentation of the program "Relief Society Hall of Fame," and represents President Belle S. Spafford. Bertha J. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each sister was framed in portrait fashion. Background music was furnished during the narration and introduction of each president. Songs which were composed by our early presidents were sung by a small group of Singing Mothers, which added to the spiritual atmosphere of the program. Each sister wrote her own biography of the president she portrayed, and expressed the pleasure and testimony she gained from doing so. A beautiful birthday cake and punch were served to the many sisters in attendance. Special invitations were sent to all the sisters in the ward, and many who had never attended Relief Society came to the social. We feel that everyone received a faith-promoting introduction to the origin and growth of Relief Society." 132 NOTES FROM THE FIELD eee ob hey - 0 aia at the Sabo > 3 May 24, 1963 Grouped around a table depicting the part music plays in Relief Society, left to right: Wylene Fotheringham, Work Director Counselor; Lucy Perry, Education Counselor; Elaine Jack, literature class leader; Lois Oswald, President; Eileen Sherren, organist; Eula Romney, work meeting leader; Beulah Rose, social science class leader; Dorie Walton, Magazine representative. Sister Oswald reports: "All the sisters of our stake — members and nonmembers — were invited to attend our 'Friendship Day' on May 24th. The stake board set up display tables depicting each phase of Relief Society work, and each ward had a table displaying articles that had been made at their work meetings during the year. A lovely fashion show was presented. Most of the clothing, modeled by mothers, children, and teenagers, was made in basic sewing classes held in each ward during the year. A very clever narration, written by Work Director Counselor Wylene Fotheringham, and read by literature class leader Elaine Jack, presented the theme 'Seams Like Old Times,' which added greatly to the presentation. There were many in attendance who are not regular Relief Society members. They seemed to enjoy the affair very much, and we are hopeful that this 'Friendship Day' will continue to stimulate and add interest in our Relief Society program for the coming year." 133 FEBRUARY 1964 May 4, 1963 Left to right, stake board members: Beth Peterson, chorister; Jean Green, theology class leader; Marian Asay, Second Counselor; Virginia Jacobson, President; Mary A. Robison, First Counselor; Mildred Duckworth, SecretaryTreasurer; Leola Christensen, social science class leader; Naydeen Sandmire, visiting teacher message leader; Maryalice Stewart, literature class leader; Beverly Johnson, Magazine representative. Sister Jacobson reports: "Over 160 women attended this social, about onethird of whom were nonmembers, from a wide variety of churches. Work items from the various wards and branches were on display. We also had an excellent display of the Magazine, as well as a display of the uses of whole wheat. Guests were asked to sign the guest book and to wear name tags. "A skit presenting the opportunties to be found in Relief Society was presented, followed by a presentation of 'My Testimony' by the stake Singing Mothers. The program was concluded with a fashion show of fashions made and modeled by members of Relief Society or their children. During the serving of refreshments, door prizes were awarded. The prizes consisted of homebaked items, as well as home-sewed items. The cultural hall was beautifully decorated, with a flower-draped archway through which the guests entered." 134 NOTES From THE FIELD ( ie: Wh | | ll tidal i ih Li | ALTMLOLIIL IG, By) HM RR Nt HN Ey 135 S LESSON DEPARTMENT: 7 THEOLOGY @ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 56 — The Book of Revelation Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 77) For First Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To glean important items of instruction of revealed latter-day knowledge from the revelation given to John the apostle on Patmos. Introduction One of the Bible books little understood is the Book of Revelation in the New Testament. Great numbers of books have been written attempting to explain its symbols. While the Prophet was revising the Bible with the aid of Sidney Rigdon as scribe, the Lord revealed the meaning of some difficult passages in that book. Althoughs on one occasion Joseph Smith said the Book of Revelation was one of the plainest books that God caused to be written (DHC V:342), he included some comments in Section 77 of the Doctrine and Covenants on certain passages in eight of the twenty-two chapters of that book. General Information The Book of Revelation is also known as the Apocalypse, a Greek word meaning to reveal the future. The author, John the apostle, describes this revelation as telling of "things which must shortly come to pass" (Rev. 1:1; see also Rev. 1: 19; 4:1.) The Revelation is addressed to seven churches of the Roman 136 province of Asia: Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamum, Thyatira, Sardis, Philadelphia, and Laodicea. (Rev. 1:4, 11.) John relates that the visions ~ of the book were received when he was on the island of Patmos, which lies off the southwest coast of Asia Minor. At this time the apostle had been banished during a period of Roman persecution against the Christians. Latter-day Saint writers have generally interpreted the seven churches, to whom the Revelation is specifically addressed because of their spiritual condition, as the remaining branches of the Church which were worthy of revelation, for the Church at large had gone into a state of apostasy. Elder James E. Talmage writes on this point, as follows: During the banishment of John the Revelator on the isle of Patmos, when nearly all the apostles had been taken from the earth, many of them having suffered martyrdom, the apostasy was so wide-spread that only seven. "churches," i. E. Branches of the Church, remained in such condition as to be considered deserv- ing of the special communication John was instructed to give. In a marvelous vision he beheld the seven churches typified by seven golden candlesticks, with seven stars representing the presiding officers of the several churches, and in the midst of the golden candlesticks, with the stars in his hand, stood "one like unto the Son of Man." The church at Ephesus was approved for its good works, specifically for its rejection of the Nicolaitan heresies; nevertheless reproof was administered for disaffection and neglect, thus: — "thou hast left thy first love. Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent and do the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent." [Rev. 2:4, 5.| To the church at Pergamos John was commanded to write, denouncing the false doctrines of certain sects and teachers, "which thing I hate" said the Lord. The church of the Laodiceans was denounced as "lukewarm," "neither hot nor cold," and as priding itself as rich and not in need, whereas it was in reality "wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked." [Rev. 3:17.] The foregoing scriptures are ample as proof that even before the ancient apostles had finished their earthly ministry, apostasy was growing apace (The Great Apostasy, 1953 edition, pp. 44-45). Section 77 — A Key to Interpretation The great confusion existing in the Chnistian world regarding the Book of Revelation is due to the loss of the key to interpret it. In an informative observation on this point, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (page 478) brings out that it will never be understood if one assumes that there has not been an apostasy and a restoration of the true Church. This authoritative source continues: But this Revelation [Section 77] is not a complete interpretation of the book. It is a key. A key is a very small part of the LESSON DEPARTMENT house. It unlocks the door through which an entrance may be gained, but after the key has been turned, the searcher for treasure must find it for himself. It is like entering a museum in which the students must find out for themselves what they desire to know. The sources of information are there. (Ibid.) Purpose The subject matter which follows is designed to point out many significant truths from Section 77 which are not known to the world. It is not the purpose of this discussion to attempt an analysis of the entire Book of Revelation. Obviously the most important lessons to be learned are those which are founded upon the words of the prophets of this dispensation. Repeatedly, the elders of the Church have been warned against delving into what are known as scriptural mysteries, meaning. Those things which the Lord _has~ not clearly made known. Upon this point the Prophet Joseph Smith has said: I make this broad declaration, that whenever God gives a vision of an image, or beast, or figure of any kind, He always holds Himself responsible to give a reveJation or interpretation of the meaning thereof, otherwise we are not responsible or accountable for our belief in it. Don't be afraid of being damned for not knowing the meaning of a vision or figure, if God has not given a revelation or interpretation of the subject (DHC V:343). Again from-the Prophet: Oh, ye elders of Israel, harken to my voice; and when you are sent into the world to preach, tell those things you are sent to tell; preach and cry aloud, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand; repent and believe the Gospel." Declare -the first principles, and. Let mysteries alone, lest ye be overthrown. Never 137 FEBRUARY 1964 meddle with the visions of beasts and subjects you do not understand (Ibid., page 344)- It is declared "The Book of Revelation is one of the grandest books in sacred literature, and the Lord clearly designs that the Saints should become familiar with it. Else, why this Revelation in the Doctrine and Covenants?" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 478). The Earth Latter-day Saints believe that the creation of the earth was purposeful in that it was to be the home for man. In an earlier revelation, the Lord made known that marriage is designed to bring the spirit sons and daughters of God to earth where they may continue their eternal advancement. By doing so "the earth might answer the end of its creation" (D & C 49:16). In answer to the question: "What is the sea of glass?" of Revelation 4:6, the Prophet answered that: "It is the earth, in its sanctified, immortal, and eternal state" (Ibid., 77:1). This will be the condition of the earth when final judgment has been rendered to its inhabitants, and it becomes the abiding place of celestial beings. In this condition another revelation declares that it will be as a Urim and Thummim to enable its occupants to know of kingdoms inferior to the celestial state. (D & C 130:9.) Before this time, however, the earth will die and undergo a change equivalent to the resurrection. (Ibid., 88:25-26.) These thoughts suggest a belief of the Latter-day Saint that the earth is a living organism. (Moses 7:48- 49) 138 There are three conditions of the earth spoken of in the inspired writings, — the present, in which everything pertaining to it must go through a change which we call death; the millennial condition, in which it will be sanctified for the residence of purer intelligences, some mortal and some immortal; and the celestial condition, spoken of in the twenty-first and twenty-second chapters of Revelation, which will be one of immortality and eternal life (Tatmace, James E.: Articles of Faith, page 517). Man and Animal In the second verse of Section 77 a question is raised relative to the four beasts spoken of in Revelation 4:6. (See Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 472 for further information.) After saying that these are figurative expressions to describe heaven, and the happiness of man, beasts, and the fowls of the air, the Prophet gives some light on the spirit of man and animal. A salient thought is expressed in the observation that the temporal has its spiritual counterpart. This gives background for the truth that "the spirit of man (is) in the likeness of his person, as also the spirit of the beast, and every other creature which God has created." As stated in an earlier lesson (Lesson 20, Relief Society Magazine, October 1959), the truth is that not only spirit-man existed before mortal birth, but also the rest of God's creation, including vegetation, was spirit. (Moses 3:5.) As the First Presidency, composed of Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund, wrote: By His almighty power He organized the earth, and all that it contains, from spirit and element, which exist co-eternally with Himself. He formed every plant that grows, and every animal that breathes, each after its own kind, spiritually and temporally — "that which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal, and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." (D & C 77:2.) He made the tadpole and the ape, the lion and the elephant; but He did not make them in His own image, nor endow them with Godlike reason and intelligence (Improvement Era, 13:81, November 1909). This official statement denounces the theory that man has ascended from lower forms of animals as a doctrine that Latter-day Saints cannot accept. Weare informed that "the whole animal creation will be perfected and perpetuated in the Hereafter, each class in its 'distinct order or sphere, and will enjoy 'eternal felicity.' 'That fact has been made plain in this dispensation" (First Presidency, Improvement Era, 13:81; D & C 77:3-4). This statement clearly affirms that animal and plant creation will be resurrected. (D & C 29:23-25.) Key to History It is plain that in verses 6 and 7 of Section 77, concerning the book with its seven seals, which John saw, there is revealed the period of the earth's temporal existence since the fall of Adam. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 474.) If one determined the meaning of each of the figures symbolizing these seals, as the various horses, the martyrs, etc., mentioned in chapter 6 of the Book of Revelation, he would recognize the general secular history of the earth. The prophetic history is revealed in chapters 12 through 14, with miscellaneous information in the remaining part of the book. LESSON DEPARTMENT Saturday Night of Time Four angels are spoken of in Revelation 7:1 (D & C 77:8) that have power to save and to destroy life. President Joseph Fielding Smith observes that these four angels seem to fit the description of those mentioned in the parable of the wheat and the tares, and he quotes President Wilford Woodruff that these powers are already being manifest on the earth. Furthermore, these messengers are some who have the power of committing the gospel to the earth. (Smiru, JosEPH FIELDING: Church History and Modern Revelation, Vol. I, 300-301.) In the twelfth verse of Section 77, the seven thousand years as time periods of the earth's mortality are again mentioned. Elder Orson F. Whitney has emphasized what many other Latter-day prophets have said concerning the period in which we live — these are the last days that are drawing near to the second coming of Christ. The symbolism of the Sabbath, and the symbolism of other days as well, is plainly indicated in the writings of Joseph Smith. In one place he says — or the Lord says through him: "All things have their likeness, and are made to bear record of me." We need not be surprised, therefore, to find among the Prophet's teachings this — I quote from his Key to the Apocalypse [77:6, 12]. "What are we to understand by the book which John saw, which was sealed on the back with seven seals? "We are to understand that it contains the revealed will, mysteries, and the works of God; the hidden things of his economy concerning this earth during the seven thousand years of its continuance, or its temporal existence. "What are we to understand by the sounding of the trumpets, mentioned in the 8th chapter of Revelation? 139 FEBRUARY 1964 "We are to understand that as God made the world in six days, and on the seventh day he finished his work, and sanctified it, and also formed man out of the dust of the earth, even so, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years will the Lord God sanctify the earth, and complete the salvation of man, and judge all things, and shall redeem all things, except that which he hath not put into his power, when he shall have sealed all things, unto the end of all things; and the sounding of the trumpets of the seven angels are the preparing and finishing of his work, in the beginning of the seventh thousand years — the preparing of the way before the time of his coming." The "days" here referred to were not ordinary days of twenty-four hours each, based upon earth's diurnal revolutions. He who "made the world" before placing man upon it, had not then appointed unto Adam His reckoning. [Abraham 5:13]. They were not man's days, but God's days, each having a duration of a thousand years. "The book which John saw' represented the real history of the world — what the eye of God has seen, what the recording angel has written; and the seven thousand years, corresponding to the seven seals of the Apocalyptic volume, are as seven great days during which Mother Earth will fulfill her mortal mission, laboring six days and resting upon the seventh, her period of sanctification. These seven days do not include the period of our planet's creation and preparation as a dwelling place for man. They are limited to Earth's "temporal existence," that is, to Time, considered as distinct from Eternity. The Prophet's translation of the Book of Abraham explains that those greater days are "after the time' or according to the reckoning of Kolob, a mighty govering planet nearest the Celestial Throne, a planet revolving once in a thousand years. [Abraham 3:4.] This period, then, is a day upon Kolob.... According to received chronology — admittedly imperfect, yet approximately correct — four thousand years, or four of the seven great days given to this planet as the period of its "temporal existence," had passed before Christ was crucified; while nearly two thousand years have gone 140 by since. Consequently, Earth's long week is now drawing to a close, and we stand at the present moment in the Saturday Evening of Time, at or near the end of the sixth day of human history. Is it not a time for thought, a season for solemn meditation? Morning will break upon the Millennium, the thousand years of peace, the Sabbath of the World! (Saturday Night Thoughts, pp. 10-12.) Special Missionaries In verse 11 of Section 77, we are told that there will be 144,000 high priests selected from the various tribes of Israel to administer the everlasting gospel for those who will come into the Church of the Firstborn. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in speaking of the salvation of the dead, said: I am going on in my progress for eternal life. It is not only necessary that you should be baptized for your dead, but you will have to go through all the ordinances for them, the same as you have gone through to save yourselves. There will be 144,000 saviors on Mount Zion, and with them an innumerable host that no man can number. Oh! I beseech you to go forward, go forward and make your calling and your election sure (DHC VI:36s). Cleansing of the Earth That the Lord has on many occasions inspired his prophets to speak of our times and the future in connection with the cleansing of the earth is very well known. (D & C 5:16-20; 43:18-29; 63:32-37.) The ninth chapter of the Book of Revelation (D & C 77:13) reveals some instruments of destruction that will cleanse the earth. Of these events President Joseph Fielding Smith has written: These terrible events pictured in the ninth chapter of Revelation are now being fulfilled. Part of this we have witnessed, the rest will shortly come to pass. This is, and will be, in the nature of the cleansing process to prepare the earth and its inhabitants, those who will be fortunate enough to remain, for the coming of our Savior when he shall commence his reign for a thousand years upon the earth. The reading of this chapter with the knowledge that the time of its fulfillment is at hand, should cause all men some thoughtful sober thinking (Church History and Modem Revelation, Vol I, page 303). John's Mission In Section 77, verse 14, we are told that the little book which was eaten by John, found in Revelation 10:8-11, is interpreted to be a mission for him to gather the tribes of Israel. This was the beginning of the new dispensation of the gospel after the period of apostasy. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, PP. 476-477.) John the Revelator is presently engaged in this mission. In the conference of the Church of June 1831, it is related that:... The Spirit of the Lord fell upon Joseph in an unusual manner, and he prophesied that John the Revelator was then among the Ten Tribes of Israel who had been led away by Shalmaneser, king of Assyria, to prepare them for their return from their long dispersion, to again possess LESSON DEPARTMENT the land of their fathers footnote). (DHC 1:176, Two Witnesses The final verse in Section 77 tefers to Revelation, chapter 11, where the two prophets raised up to the Jewish nation in the last days will have power to prevent the destruction of the Jewish people by nations which have come up to battle against Jerusalem. In the process, however, these prophets will have been overcome themselves and then by the power of God restored to life. This episode yet to be enacted in the land of Jerusalem will be mentioned again in a subsequent lesson. Questions for Discussion 1. Give an example of the fact that the Book of Revelation tells of the period before John's time, as well as the future. 2. Why did John address his revelation to the seven branches of the Church in Asia? 3. What are the limitations of Section 77 in understanding the Book of revelation? 4. What is meant by the "Saturday night of time," and what references to this meaning are found in the lesson? Frozen Splendor Gladys Hesser Burnham © Snowflakes hang in frozen splendor Solid, dew-wet, jewels of fog. Every bush and tree is coated Weed and wire, tub and log; All transformed in lacy raiment Frosty touch of icy grace, Hushed and breathless, opaque curtain Hides the sun, her warm embrace. 141 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Message 56 — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me, Even Jesus Christ, That | Am the Son of the Living God" (D & C 68:6). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To emphasize the fact that a testimony of Jesus Christ, as the Son of the living God, is the most important need in the world today. Ow one occasion when Jesus was visiting a city known as Caesarea Philippi, in the north, he asked his disciples who men said that he was. His disciples answered that some believed he was John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremias or one of the other ancient prophets. Then Jesus inquired of his disciples who they thought he was. Simon Peter answered and said, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God" (Matt. 16:16). During his ministry upon this earth, the Savior knew that if his teachings were to endure and to be effective in the lives of his disciples they must know, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that he was the Christ, the long-promised Messiah, the Son of the living God. If this testimony was important when the Lord was living and teaching upon the earth, it is just as important in our lives today. Not being blessed with the personal presence of our Lord to counsel and guide us, we must live by faith, knowing that his spirit can be with us, if we seek it, and knowing that his teachings 142 are not only the most effective but the only genuine guide we have in this modern, complicated life. When the impressive buildings which now constitute Radio Center were built in the heart of Manhattan, New York, a wise architect inscribed on the walls of the main building the following, "Man's ultimate destiny depends not on whether he can learn new lessons or make new discoveries, or new conquests, but upon his acceptance of the lessons taught him close upon 2,000 years ago." Today we are experiencing earthshaking developments and _ accomplishments in the sciences. We have created remarkable electronic devices which serve and entertain us. We are making marvelous progress in exploring the secrets of space and are even talking about visiting the moon. Yet, none of these accomplishments or conquests will help us solve our basic human problems, nor will they help us in any way to gain eternal salvation, unless we can bear record to the conviction that Jesus is the Christ, that he lived, died, and was resurrected for our salvation and exaltation. Only through this testimon and through a willingness to follow his teachings can we Secure peace of mind, true happiness, peace upon this earth, and JOy in the world to Since the Testoration of the gosSon of God and have counseled us to strengthen and bear record of Our own testimonies. As example of these Powerful testjmonies from oyr Church leaders, President McKay bears this record, gOspel as the plan of the one perfect Way to happiness and Peace" (The Instructor, 99:161, June 1957). As members e best way to build and strengthen our testimonies is to read of him in the scriptures, learn his live them. We have been told Tepeatedly that if we do the things which the Lord tells man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, LESSON DEPARTMENT We can also strengthen our testimonies both by listening testimonies of others and by bearing record ourselves. We should bear this record whenever it js appropriate, to our families, to our friends, and in testimony meetings. More. Over, when we partake of the sacrament worthily, and with singleness of heart, we bear solemn record to the Lord, to ourselves, and to those assembled that we partake of the Sacrament we should concentrate on thoughts of the Savior and on the blessings our testimony of him brings us, Through strengthening our testjmony and bearing record of it we ran say with the ancient prophet; that my redeemer liveth" (Job 19:25). As expressed in the beautiful h mn, what joy and comfort this conviction brings. President Grant once said, "There is no joy in the world that equals the joy of knowing in your heart that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ" (Moments With the Prophets, page 197). We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants if our testimonies and our lives bear record of our Savior this promise Surely no greater blessing can come to anyone. 143 WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 16 — Planning Family Recreation Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To plan family activities constructively that will bring refreshment of strength and spirits after toil. Ir it is true that "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and that "all play and no work makes Jack a mere toy," then Jack and his family might well find a course to follow that will avoid these extremes. There are Jacks and Janes who never see the sunset, or hear the rolling in of the tide; nor enjoy the beauty of a flower, bird, or tree, nor have time for anything creative on their own. Of course, Jack and Jane must strive for academic excellence, if they are to survive in the twentieth century world. They must not be impoverished in experience if they are to understand the moral, social, aesthetic, and spiritual values that give real meaning and purpose to life and enrich the common culture. What educates most is the immediate experience of a child within each situation. Thus the family educates and is the chief agency through which Jack and Jane may develop some balance in living. Experiences provided through creative activity in the home and through excursions, nature walks, and flying 144 kites, or other family interests help keep the balance. One little Jack, aged five, and his family had an excursion to a cave where he learned about stalactites and stalagmites. He learned to say these tongue-twisters and bought a piece of polished stalactite which started his rock collection. He wanted to know what the rock was made of and what conditions in the cave produced it. Friends and relatives, noting his great interest in rocks, brought him specimens, and after a year there were so many rocks that it looked as if they would take over, and the family would have to move out. After this experience, it is unlikely that Jack, now grown, would build a bomb shelter, but he is on the team to investigate one's tolerance for carbon dioxide while in a submarine and is applying the findings to determine one' tolerance for carbon dioxide while in a space capsule. It is very likely that the family excursion to the cave and the follow-up activities had something to do with Jack's present interests. Another little Jack took to carving animals out of soap after a family excursion to a children's museum. Within a year there were soap animals marching across the mantel and on every bookshelf, and enough soap shavings to do the family wash. The soap menagerie increased as nature walks introduced new subjects and the interest progressed to the media of wood and clay. At age thirty, the Christmas present to the five children and his wife was a bust of each which had been molded in clay, then cast. This was a creative experience in which all six participated. A victim of polio was a paraplegic at age one. At forty-one he could Jook at his family with pride, and at his comfortable home and mountain cabin, and car that he could drive, and feel a great sense of accomplishment in not owing anyone and being able to support himself and family. 'This remarkable achievement can be traced back to excursions with his father to the smelter to see the big time clock which his father repaired. He developed a keen interest in clocks and watches and learned all the intricacies of the trade, enough to earn his livelihood. Where do ideas begin that help to make a life? Seeds are planted early, and what may seem to be casual, unimportant events may have ingredients for greatness, if pursued. Excursions, nature walks, visits to museums, and backyard _ picnics provide experiences for enLESSON: DEPARTMENT richment throughout life and should be part of the weekly schedule. 'The vacation in the mountains or at the seashore takes long-time planning and budgeting, but the happy mem ories of such events bring dividends, year after year. Recreation, by definition, is "refreshment of strength and spirits after toil; diversion; play; to recre ate." No better example of "te freshment of strength and spirits after toil" could be seen than famies of Thailand flying kites in the high wind. In most instances each family member helps to make his own kite. There are boy kites and girl kites, and large and small ones, each with its own distinctive pattern. All ages participate in the sheer joy of the majestic sky dance of the kites. They laugh and shout and sing as the wind blows through their hait and wraps their sarongs and_pakimas more tightly about them. After a day with the kites they can say Mai Pen -Rai (never mind) more easily as they meet problems and troubles along life's way. What is more precious than the memories of happy hours when mother and father, sons and daughters, meet together to laugh and play and bring refreshment of strength and spirit, and a bond of family togetherness greater than before? What "recreative" activities do you share with your family week by week? And what are your plans for some soul-lifting days away from home in the year ahead? 145 LITERATURE @ America's Literature The Last Hundred Years Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 850-854) For Third Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To understand and enjoy Carl Sandburg's substantial contribution to the American tradition. Ir is altogether fitting that, of the multifarious voices out of the living past which have brought us to ourselves, it is Carl Sandburg's which is to be sounded last. Not one of America's greatest poets, he is nevertheless one of her great lovers, here standing foremost in the 1960's with two of her great immortals who have most influenced his beliefs and his method, namely, Lincoln and Whitman. Having worked as a common laborer, he is well aware of the commonplace, while at the same time proud to be self-appointed singer to these, his own people. Timeless in their rugged integrity and blundering strength, to him they are the world's best hope. As he wrote in 1936, a period in the United States' history when a collective soul-searching and a profound self-appraisal were most needed: The people will live on. The learning and blundering people will live on.... Between the finite limitations of the five senses 146 and the endless yearnings of man for the beyond the people hold to the humdrum bidding of work and food while reaching out when it comes their way for lights beyond the prison of the five senses, for keepsakes lasting beyond any hunger or death. This reaching is alive.... The people know the salt of the sea and the strength of the winds lashing the corners of the earth. The people take the earth as a tomb of rest and a cradle of hone. Who else speaks for the Family of Man? They are in tune and step with constellations of universal law. In the darkness with a great bundle of grief the people march. In the night, and overhead a shovel of stars for keeps, the people march: "Where to? What next?" (From The People, Yes, by Cart SANpBURG, copyright 1936 by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc. Reprinted by permission of the publishers. See text, pp. 853-854.) Sandburg's Life Charles Sandburg was born on a cornhusk mattress in 1878 in Galesburg, Illinois, the son of Swedish imLesson 48 — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer (1878- ) LESSON DEPARTMENT migrant parents. His father, who after the Spanish-American War could read with difficulty amd wo =we declared he enlisted for eight signed his mortgage ih, ws months, returning home to Gallesworked for twenty-four yeats purg, "The Athens of the Com July, Thanksgiving, and Christmas, received thirty-two honorary docno work, no pay: His father was 4 torates and two Pulitzer prizes) - member of the Swedish Lutheran For eight more years after college | mother, gentle, peaceful soul, always being one with the wor ing taught her son that "There are S° classes, playing his guitar with them, _ many interesting things in life — and writing down for the first time _ answered questions. At thirteen he upon his life. A third influence left the eighth grade to wander came through his association with - about the raw Midwest vainly tryPhilip Green Wright, Lombard's ing to fnd himself, as hobo, field professor of English, mathematics, hand, railroad laborer, painter, dishastronomy, and economics who which bored him' and made him order to see what would happen." even more restless. Yet from these Dominated by a strong social conseven years before he entered Lom: sciousness, Wright formed a student bard College he gained his lifelong club for the discussion of current _ sympathy with the working classes, writings including those of Sandrevealed in such poems as "y Am burg, in whose talent' he had great the People, the Mob," "Fish Crier," faith. In 19°4 and 19°5 Wright "Psalm of Those Who Go Forth published Sandburg's first three slim - Before Daylight," and "Prayers of books.. Steel." Such experiences also made From 1910 to 193? Sandburg was him a militant supporter of William private secretary tO Emil Seidel, Jennings Bryan, the common peoSocialist mayOt of Milwaukee, after - ple's silver-tongued orator. The day which he moved to Chicago where 147 FEBRUARY 1964 he worked as a journalist for Various € appearance of ~ meat. Peared in foyry volumes in 1939, and In 1940 it was awarded the Pulitzer rize, Paula and the girls found Wwhite-columned Teasurer of the Sandburg, the People's Poet Car] Sandburg Considers Walt the Tesemblance between Whitman and andburg is little less than over. Ing, a debt which Sandburg Maintains itman's cadenced, ynnot merely copy him; instead he affirms the truth of Whit. Never surpassed the and raw strength o characterizing | "Chicago," (See text, Page 851, His "Fog" has the inevitable simthat Sandburg (1930), a book of ootabaga Stories (1922) for chil. Dren: The fog comes On little cat feet. It sits looking over habour and city on silent haunches and then Moves on. Plicity of great art, and | Cop Win (From Cornhuskers yright 1918 by H s let me work — at place js this? €T€ are we now? Ton, Inc. Copyright Tenewed 1946 4 mystica] haunting Mass mediocrity an Which are a Constant threat to de. € Sins of Kalamazoo " (From Good Morning, America, Copyright 1928, 1956 by Carr SANDBURG. Reprint. Ed by PErmission of Harcourt, Brace World, Inc. ) Ouple," tender togetherness" Cannot be Omitted js « and e nd," as elightfy] yet a biting a, t ugness as any Orms tired of Crawling begin to slither, ng worms slither farther than short S Middle-sizeq Worms Say, "Tt is nice to be neither long nor Short,". 149 FEBRUARY 1964 Worms underground never hear the wind overground and sometimes they ask, "What is this wind we hear of?" (From Complete Poems, copyright, 1950, by Cart Sanppurc. Reprinted by_permission of Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.) Sandburg, the People's Singer Even before 1920 Carl discovered that, while an audience loved listening to him reading his poems, they loved him even more if he ended the evening by slinging his guitar over his shoulder and strumming his own accompaniment while he sang some of the folk ballads he had been collecting and memorizing since his early teens, and which he published in The American Songbag (1927), republished by Broadcast Music, Inc. As The New American Songbag (1960). As anyone who has ever heard the deliberate, unique cadences and caressed, mellow tones of his spoken voice instantly recognizes, he has always loved music until he has made it a vital part of himself. Music is my way of resting. When I am tense and written-out, or when I am tired from walking, thirty minutes of playing and singing will work wonders for me. Why, it's my medicine. More people ought to know what making your own music can do for you (Etude, September 1955. Page 42. Reprinted by permission of Theodore Presser Company). At home in "Connemara," North Carolina, he has a guitar case in almost every room, and spontaneously bursts into a song, with or without guitar accompaniment, whenever the spirit moves him. While all poetry lives only when it is heard, Sandburg's poems are not entirely created, nor can the listener completely possess them, 150 until Sandburg sounds them within himself into his unforgettable singing prose. Never have words been loved more tenderly, yet deeply, as he croons the overly sustained vowels, slowly enunciating each syllable — soft, then loud — then quick, pause, slow and climax until he remakes our old, worn language into a fresh, original communicative tool we have never known previously. Sandburg, the People's Biographer One of Carl Sandburg's central beliefs is his firm conviction that our Nation's best hope lies in men with "free imaginations, bringing changes into a world resenting change." This credo he has built into his own life. No other major literary figure in the United States has achieved excellence in poetry, folk song, essay, novel, autobiography and biography. Change and continuing growth have been the pattern of his career, a growth not terminated at age eightythree when he climaxed four years | of research by writing most of the script for the movie The Greatest Story Ever Told. He first knew literary fame as a poet, and has ever remained one, but a poet of unique versatility, whose supreme accomplishment will probably prove to be his monumental biography of Abraham Lincoln, a book which only an American poet could write. During his Galesburg youth young Carl had known men who had fought for Lincoln and the Union. Lincoln and Douglas had debated in Galesburg, a memory reality within him which he could never ignore. Begun in the early 1920's as a story of Lincoln's life for children, Sandburg s six-volume biog: raphy has earned wide acceptance over the decades as the best, largest,, and truest access our gen eration has to our greatest American But in striving SO to create an image of h will endure, simulSandburg has created a Jesser legend which envelops himself as Lincoln's biographer. It was this growing legend which was nut tured by Sandburg's address to the His subject was Abraham Lincoln, born 15° years earlier. But in making Lincoln live for his contemporaries, Sandburg has inadyertently drawn heavily from Sandpurg, the patient researcher and sympathetic artist. This constitutes the unique source of the book's power. Ideally the two seem to complement each other. The following excerpts f fairly thoroughness of Sandburg s research arises like a hhalf-remembered person '4 from the cold printed page, but a page now chosen and ordered by a poet blessed with superb human insight and 'selective powers. In the time of the April lilacs in the year 1865, 3 man in the City of Washington, DC., trusted a guard to watch at, and the guard the door, and the man was shot, lingered d north and west 4 thousand miles; bells sobbed; cities wore crepe; people stood with hats off as the railroad LESSON DEPARTMENT burial car came past at midnight, dawn or noon. --- When the woman who wrote Uncle Tom's Cabin came to see him in the White House, he greeted her, "So you're the little woman who wrote the book that made this great war," and as they seated themselves at 4 fireplace, "T do love an open fire; home." As they wete finishing thei talk of the days of blood, he said, '; last long after it's over... When his white kid gloves b tatters while shaking hands at a Ww House reception, he remarked, "This looks like a general " He was a chosen spokesman; yet there were times he was silent; nothing but silence could at those times have fitted a chosen spokesman; in the mixed shame and blame of the immense wrongs of two crashing civilizations, with nothing to Say, he said nothing, slept not at all, and wept at those times in a way that made weePping appropriate, decent, majestic. (From The Sandburg Range, Harcourt, Brace and Company 1957> PP: 351-353- Copyright, 1953: by CARL SANDBURG. Reprinted by permission of the publishers.) Sandburg's portrait of Lincoln might possibly be surpassed, but until such a remote day arrives, it is our best national biography, of greatness, by greatness, and for a future universal greatness arising from masses of common men made uncommon by their realization that such men have lived. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Prove that poetry and music have unified Sandbure's life. 2, If you were to write a short paper on "The Education of Carl Sandburg," points would you emphasize? What conclusions would you reach? _ Discuss "free men of imagination" and "resistance to change" as they fit into Carl Sandburg 's personal philosophy. 151 SOCIAL SCIENCE ¢ Divine Law and Church Government ': [ts Organization and Structure Lesson 14 — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, May 1964 Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the structure and operation of Church government. The Church is the body of believers, organized [by the Priesthood] according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers, and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth (Wiptsor, Joun A.: Program of the Church, 1941 edition, page 22). Zion, "The pure in heart," the kingdom of God here upon the earth, is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and no other, and with its divinely restored power of the priesthood of the Living God, with its ordinances, organizations, agencies, and facilities, and with its message of pure, eternal gospel truth, it reaches out the hand of fellowship to the whole human family, to lead our Father's children into transcendent joy, eternal progress, and the presence of our Lord (Ricnarps, STEPHEN L: Where Is Wisdom? Page 406). The Priesthood is a dynamic creative power and a directing force upon the earth. Adam held the Holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God. In the various dispensations of time, God has activated his Priesthood, instituted his government, and offered his services to the human family. Having in mind the welfare of his children and being constantly 152 aware of the purpose of creation, God has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth today. In it there is a fulness of the gospel being administered by his authorized agents. This means that all the wisdom, counsel, and direction (divine law), that God has ever revealed to man to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation have been restored. The Restoration of the Priesthood The 6th of April, 1830, was both a climax and a beginning in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. The major event in its history took place in a grove in early spring of 1820. In this quiet, peaceful place the testimony of the ancient scriptures was verified as the boy Joseph Smith beheld the Father and the Son. Their declaration to him, that the Church of God was not upon the earth, began a chain of events that climaxed in the organization of the Church. These events included instruction and training by heavenly messengers, the key events happening in May and June of 1829, when the power and authority to act officially for God upon the earth were conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by John the Baptist and apostles Peter, James, and John, the men Christ had chosen in the meridian of time to head his Church following the crucifixion. Shortly after the restoration of the Pnesthood, the translation of 'The Book of Mormon was completed. It became a new witness for God testifying of the mission of Jesus Christ. With the Holy Priesthood as his authority to act and the witness to the world of the fulness of the gospel contained in The Book of Mormon, the Prophet Joseph brought the first phase of his work to a focal point with the orgnization of the Church. Church Government Is the Priesthood in Action It is most significant to note how little attention was given to the structure of Church government until the Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and Oliver. We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in _ the ordinances thereof (Fifth Article of | Faith). After the Priesthood was given to | them, Joseph and Oliver explained / the principles of the gospel, baptized / those who received a testimony, and - then set up the official organization LESSON DEPARTMENT and government of the Church (see Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants). Patterned after the structure of the Church Jesus had established while he was upon 'the earth. The Enlightenment of the Holy Ghost The Prophet Joseph informs us that immediately following their baptism, the Holy Ghost fell upon them and they prophesied of important things to come. Joseph says: Our minds being now enlightened, we began to have the scriptures laid open to our understandings, and the true meaning and intention of their more mysterious passages revealed unto us in a manner which we never could attain to previously, nor ever before had thought of... (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:74). After receiving the authority of the Priesthood and the enlightenment of mind from the Holy Ghost, the Church was organized. Through the process of inquiry and revelation, the Prophet received the detail of the structure and government of the Church, not all at once, but step by step until an organization unequaled by the efforts of man, has been perfected. The Sacredness of Priesthood Callings In our course of study we are concerned with the fact that the Priesthood was restored and is the basis upon which Church government and organization are built. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was not founded upon protests against the alleged mistakes of any existing Churches. It was founded 353 FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD | GO GOD IS LOVE HEAVENS ARE TELLING.... Haydn LeinoSchumann ae... Shelley IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMMANDMENTS.... Madsen IN THY FORM............-....-Madsen LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY........-.-2.-------+-Stephens LO, MY SHEPHERD IS DIVINE Haydn LORD'S PRAYER..........----------Gates LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE.......... Madsen MY REDEEMER LIVES.........-Gates O DAY OF REST AND GLADNESS.........-...--.-Schumann OMNIPOTENCE..........----Schubert Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah -20 20 25 25 -20.20 22.20 -20 20 20.20 Please send the music indicated above. (J On Approval [) Charge CJ Money Enclosed Name Address City and State ATMAALLATILI he. 15 E. Lst South |. Salt Lake City 11, Utah by the Priesthood of God through direct instructions from Christ himself. We must keep in mind that every office and calling in the Priesthood, both Aaronic and Melchizedek, is sacred and important to the work of the Lord. To be ordained to a calling in the Priesthood is a distinction, and to function in the government of the Church is an honor and a blessing. To be worthy to act as the authorized agent of God, exercising his power among men, demands God-like actions in all areas of human behavior. The nearer men come to perfection, the greater their effectiveness in their Priesthood callings. Therefore, as the body of the Priesthood bearers achieve this perfection, it is reflected in the operation of the Church. The Worth of Souls The importance of the Priesthood in Church government is pointed out in the above discussions. Nothing can be done officially without the authority of the Priesthood. It should also be pointed out that the government of the Church, the total organization and program of the Church, are designed by the Creator for the welfare of man. There is much evidence to support the statement that God's major purpose and concern is the perfection of man. For ex ample, in the beginning all the intelligences existed coeternally with God. The personality of man becomes sacred by the fact of the spiritual Fatherhood of God; and as a major evidence he, the Father, gave his Only Begotten Son as a sacrifice to open the way for all mankind to have everlasting life. Whenever the Church of God has been upon the earth, its major duty has been to inform mankind of the purpose of life, man's relationship to God and to man, and to make man aware of his own possibilities and responsibilities as a child of God. Calling people to repentance, or to accept the pattern of life that will assure them of their greatest accomplishments in life and exaltation in the celestial kingdom, is the perpetual assignment of the Priesthood. Priesthood Quorums and Church Organization To be effective in the lives of people and in the organization and operation of the Church, there need to be system and order in the bestowal of and the operation of the power of the Priesthood. Determining factors in having the privilege of Priesthood bestowal include worthiness of character, willingness to serve, and knowledge of the duties and obligations of the Priesthood to be conferred. Of most importance in the effective use of power, is getting it under control and keeping it available. Proper connection with the source of the power is of vital importance. In discussing the Priesthood, God is the source of the power, it is controlled and directed only through the authorized agency upon the earth and the connections are activated by righteousness. With every man in the Church a potential Priesthood holder, it is essential that there be effective LESSON DEPARTMENT LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL WORRY FREE To HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC (New low fares) EUROPE 21 Day Excursion Tours (Save 30%) THE HOLY LAND including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel Turkey, Greece and Italy (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 5th) HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT August '64 including World's Fair in New York (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon) (Authorized Agent for all Domestic and International Carriers) MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. (Bonded) (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 Salt Lake City "There is no substitute for experience' regulations governing the use of this power. To the Priesthood holder who serves the Lord in righteousness there is no limit to the good he can do on his own. But, to hold an office in the government or a position of leadership in any organization of the Church, he must be called to the office by the proper authority. To provide an orderly operation and development of the Priesthood, the members holding the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood are organized into quorums. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a quorum is a specially selected or chosen body referring to all the members of that body, such as a quorum of deacons, quorum of elders, etc. The objectives of the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums are: (1) to 155 Handbook. Page 21.) The quorum Stake, Excepted are bishoprics, as an organized body of the Priest. Patriarchs Presidents of high priests hood implies an ideal standard of quorums, stake Mission Presidents, Conduct, 4 common Purpose unity Stake Clerks, and Councilors OF decision, 4 d a vital Interest jn without Permission fro 4 Genera] € welfare of each member uthority ) © ordinances and ing ground for Church leadership, bers of the Twelve, Assistants to the In fact, When the quorum functions Twelve, and now the Presidents of to its full Capacity and design, jit Seventy Who are ordained high could meet most Successfully all the Ptiests. Activity and instructional needs of The bishopric js "PProved by the Church, ertainly not jn the Firs Presidency, and is set apart by quorum Meeting as Such, but by the Proper Genera] Authorities. The fully "artying out the quorum ob. Bishopric can then Proceed to cal] Could be formulated Under Priest. Officers. However the bishopric IS 00d leaders Irectly T€sponsible he stake Presidency, The Priesthood in The stake Presidency can call and Urch Governmeny ct apart branch Presidencies when € basic Structure of Church Tanches ar Necess Sovernment | seen in the adminis- © Missions of the Church are trative officers ang ganization of Presided over by a President calleq Its £€0graphic units, hurch SOVame ope 'part by the First Presj-: - eC™ment js th function of the ency, MIssion p esident with Nesthoo thority ang Keys: hic two Counselors Preside in the of the Priesthood ar€ centered in the Mission © Dranch and district Tophet, Seer, and Revelator of the Presidents are 4Ppointed and set Church, The President, with his apart by them, They Tepresent the Counselors, the Quorum of the First Presidency and conduct the Welve, the Patriarch, the Assistants Officig] business of the Mission yp. To the Twelve, the even Presidents der the direction of the First Presj- porting units to the branches, wards, stakes, and missions. They provide the manpower that the officers of these organized units need, in order to carry out the program of the Church. The ecclesiastical line of authority governs and operates the program of the Church. The Priesthood line of authority is responsible for developing leadership abilities in each quorum member through the Priesthood objectives. All Church members are subject to call by the proper ecclesiastical authority to fill the offices in the Church program of branch, ward, stake, or Church. Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints means activity in a good cause. It calls for an applied testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only..." (James 1:22). As has been indicated, the quorum is the training ground for leadership in the Church. An important characteristic of leadership is how to be a good follower. Quorum membership implies a desire to prepare, to improve one's ability to do something for others and do it to the best of one's ability. Ward and branch membership is the place where this preparation is put into action. The Gospel of Repentance The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of repentance. Christ gave mankind a perfect example and presented a way of life that would lead to perfection. "Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17). The call to repentance is extended to people everywhere, in all walks LESSON DEPARTMENT WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). —~_ 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. —<—_ All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. =< Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 and stations of life. The great objective is to bring all mankind into the light,. Knowledge, and wisdom of the Creator. This is the only approach to perfection. Any individual who does not do as well as he knows how has need of repentance. People should never stop extending their knowledge of all that is good. In the program of the Church, the idea of repentance is given constant attention. Human nature must be disciplined. The appetites of man must be controlled for his own good and advancement. 'True repentance means a _ permanent change in behavior. The plan of life and salvation teaches all men the value and benefit of righteous living. The wayward are given special attention with the hope that they will recognize their mistakes, exercise their agency, and 157 FEBRUARY 1964 elect to follow the design of the Creator. The emphasis of divine law is on rehabilitation of the wayward through wisdom, guidance, mercy, and love. The courts or councils of justice in the Church are designed to bring people to repentance. They are to bring to light the truth in the case, not to condemn and destroy, but to encourage re-orientation of life in harmony with the eternal values of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even when it is necessary for the Church court to pronounce the severe action of excommunication, forgiveness must always be in the hearts of the members of the Church. Jesus said he would forgive whom he would, but we as individuals must forgive all. The authorized judge in a Church court is not required to forgive the sins of individuals, but may be in a position where he must exact severe penalties. Certainly every judge, however, should have the spirit of forgiveness in his heart. It must be remembered that councils of justice are helpful, even essential, to personal development of offenders in that they tend to stimulate the art of discipline and self-control. The courts of the Church support and sustain the high ideals and values in our way of life. It should be remembered that love is the real motivation of the Priesthood and should be basic to all human association. Certainly the dispensing of justice in the Church courts should be as full of mercy as is assured by the Master, himself. 158 Church Government Was Initiated for Man's Advancement Jesus dedicated his life to the service of his fellow men. This is the pattern he set for each person who enjoys membership in his Church and kingdom. Every person in the Church is a potential leader and if each one follows the program of the Church, he can prepare himself to perform any duty assigned him in the Church. One needs humility, sincerity, faith, and a willingness to work hard, to be successful as an officer or teacher. The opportunities and _responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. 'The responsibilities require service to others, assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds a confidence and competency in his leadership. The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind. References Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18; 20; 27; 42; 43; 58; 102; 107; 114; 115; 121; 127; and 132. Wiptsor, Joun A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 9; 10; 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; and 18. SmitH, JosePH Fretpinc: Essentials in Church History, Chapter 9. Pearl of Great Price: Joseph Smith. Articles of Faith, Chapters 10; 20; 23; 24. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What evidence can you give of the divinity of the Church? >. What is the real objective of Church government and organization? 3. Why was it necessary to restore the Priesthood before the organization of Church government? 4. Accepting the fact that the Priesthood is the power of God and that Church government is this power in action, what importance do we give the program of the Church in our everyday life? 5. How important are the principles of repentance and forgiveness in the operation of Church government? 6. How important are you as an indiyidual to the operation of Church government? BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah 600 to 1000 miles.....54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., $. L. C., Utah, <a = pDESERET_PREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 ZIMS Established 1932 ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFT MATERIALS — AND ALL THE OLD FAVORITES. Send 25c for new 1964 catalog, and receive, free, our newest booklet, "Satin Wrappin' " — directions for ribbonwrapped styrofoam novelties. Cost of catalog deductible from first order. Discounts to Groups — Dealer Inquiries Invited ZIMS 240 E. 2nd So. Salt Lake City, Utah HAWAII Next Hawaiian Tour Depart February 1964 ~~ MEXICO — JUNE 1964 and once each month thereafter = WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. <> Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 159 Up to 150 miles.... 35 150 to 300 miles.....39 300 to 600 miles.....45 1000 to 1400 miles.64 1400 to 1800 miles.76 Over 1800 miles.....87 Mrs. CATHERINE JOHNSON ERICKSON Monroe, Utah Mrs. Mary ANN Batty SMITH Randolph, Utah Mrs. ELLEN JOHANNA LARSON SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Marit SORENSEN JENSEN Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Mary M. G. Morcan Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ELIZABETH GOULDING STRAUSER Sullivan, Missouri Mrs. Mary ELIZABETH DAVIS Buck Valley, Pennsylvania Miss Grace MINOT »St. Petersburg, Florida Mrs. Mary ANN COLE FRANCOM Tremonton, Utah Mrs. ELIZABETH E. SLADE CARROLL Mancos, Colorado Mrs. ELIZA SORENSEN FACKRELL Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. ELLEN ENGLAND MILLER Blackfoot, Idaho Mrs. DIANA MERRITT BLEAZARD Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. GENITHA EDITH CARTER DENTON Trenton, Tennessee 160 ae ff. OZ, y Z Onugralilalions MRS. JENNIE PARRISH STEWART Centerville, Utah Mrs. CHARLETTE WILSON NICHOLS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EMMA OTTESON HALVERSON Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. SARAH SEELY LARSEN Castle Dale, Utah Ninetv-one Mrs. ALMA G. WATSON MCGREGOR Provo, Utah Mrs. CARRIE FREEMAN TOMLIN Maramec, Oklahoma Mrs. ANNIE M. ANDERSON Dallas, Texas Mrs. Rut E. Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. MINNIE HEGSTEAD TAYLOR Salt Lake City, Utah ATS pt a iearehe) Mrs. MARIA JANE EARNSHAW Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada Mrs. SARAH WALTERS JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. HENRIETTA McCLoy LARSEN American Fork, Utah Mrs. Mary ANN McGuIRE CHAMBERS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CAROLINE RINGEL STEED Ogden, Utah Mrs. DIANTHA SANDERSON Fairview, Utah Mrs. ELLEN JANE BOWEN GRAHAM Salt Lake City, Utah 1 THE FALLACY by Alvin R. Dyer Elder Dyer, Assistant to the Quotum of the Twelve, analyzes fundamental Principles of the LDS Church. His analysis clarifies the Position taken by the Re. Organized Church and then provides answers to this position and indicates the weakness of the latter's reasoning in the light of both scripture and history. $3.95:: Ant The: Shall Teach Th ir Children a tirqaanannt C7 a 3 4 AND THEY SHALL TEACH THEIR CHILDREN by Reed H. Bradford A professional provides directives in the rearing of children that every Latter-day Saint parent will want to read. As a doctor of Philosophy, Reed Bradford is well qualified to author such a4 book. As a fervent member of the LDS Church, he has the testimony to make him eminently capable of handling this subject for Latter-day Saints. $3.50 Fountain 3 AT THE FOUNTAIN by Albert I. Zobel, Jr. A handy pocket size book of quotations from General Authorities of the LDS Church; it is alphabetically-arranged for greater usefulness to speakers, teachers, writers and readers. The quotations succinctly nail down gospel principles. $1.00 Sae8unnee Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST So. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITy 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA (Es RERUEEA Deseret Book Company 44. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check C) money order (I have an account, please charge [7. Amount enclosed $.... For the encircled numbered books. Ie 3 Name.___. NtZone... _. State... Residents of Utah please add 342% sales tax. > mae never, ever forget.. The day the roof in! Fell Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah I hope I never have a more urgent need for cash than I did last February. If I do, I'm sure my hair will turn white. I was buying six trucks on contract and business reverses had caused me to miss four payments. The company set final deadline for payment at 10:00 a. M. On Friday. I tried frantically to get another extension. The company, however, seemed determined to tie up the trucks. They wouldn't give me time to refinance, and at that time banks were not loaning money for truck payments. I was desperate. It seemed I would lose all of my past years of hard work as well as my investment. Shortly I would be out of business and out of a job. It was the most discouraging day of my life. Then I ran into my Beneficial agent. How happy I was when he reminded me that in my life insurance there was a cash loan value. I'd never dreamed it would be enough to save my investment. Four days later I held in my hand an airmail envelope containing a check for $3,500. It really saved the day! I plan now to return the money to the company later in the year, because I've learned that I don't have to die to make my life insurance useful. Some people claim to be "insurance poor." Well, I'm "insurance rich!"' From the Beneficial Life Files. BENE FICIAL — aa Bor Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, 7 o c 4 (a je) 0) o Magazine Number 3 March 1964 'Volume 51 ? Y - P,. A ¢ - é '4 Zé Py fe ASE PS SS;, { Z ff ff en eee ST er oe Terror er ot My neighbor who was ill in the hospital asked for something new and different to read. I took her The Relief Society Magazine — small and easy to handle and with a very colorful cover. She was delighted, and read it immediately. Then the night nurse: saw it lying on the bed and asked what kind of magazine-it was, and if she might read it. My neighbor told her she was welcome to read _ the Magazine, but to be sure to return it. The next night the nurse returned the Magazine. She had especially enjoyed the stories and recipes. When my neighbor was being brought home from the hospital the woman who was taking her home asked to read the Magazine. She liked the stories and poems. All this created an interest in the Church,. And the woman who took my neighbor home from _ the hospital is to. Be baptized at our next baptism day. Let's every one of us be a missionary. Geneva Cluff Phoenix, Arizona Thank you for the beautiful Magazine. We sell more Relief Society Magazines each year, and we know they will help each subscriber to gain a testimony of the gospel, and also help to make a happier home by following the instructions pertaining to becoming a better wife, mother, and homemaker. Laura R. Shimp President Huntington Park Stake Relief: Society, California I really appreciate and love the Magazine, and my _ twelve-year-old daughter reads it before I get a chance, part of the time. Thank you for the Magazine and the lovely. Lessons. Beverly Culwell North Little Rock Arkansas 162 FA! CRO Ot CRED ieee al ' " » fe / A, 4 a ii Z Se i (HUE) FMF £ ewer I enjoy. My Relief Society Magazine very much, and I have saved all the Magazines since I joined the Church. Today, I have parted with some of the Magazines, and I know that some of them will never return, but I am sure the older ladies in the nursing home where I sent them will enjoy them, because they are small enough to handle in bed. The stories. And lessons are not so long that they would lose interest in reading them. Mrs. Audrey Warren Charles City, Iowa The visiting teacher message for the month of October ("Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to. Forgive One Another," by Christine H. Robinson) is one of the best lessons I have - ever taught. It is put. Together so. Beautifully. Mrs. Dee. Phillips Ferndale, Michigan As a young mother, with four children, and a husband in the bishopric, I find the Magazine a great source of inspiration and encouragement. Whenever I feel blue or discouraged, I can always find just the right article to touch my heart and inspire me to do better. Sharon T. Koster Provo, Utah I am a girl of fifteen and I received the lovely Relief Society Magazine as a Christmas gift two years ago from my. Grandmother. I love the beautiful covers and enjoy the stories very much, as well as the poetry in each issue. May I say it is not only the older women, but also the girls of my age who read and love the Magazine. From a future Relief Society member. Marilyn Child Springville, Utah Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle § Spafford Spec:.; Fesa:,,.. O ~pe 164 Train Up a Child Marion G. Romney 170 "Charity Never Faileth" Edith P. Backman 184 The American Red Cross and Its Blood Donor Program Perkins McGuire 216 What Does Your Speech Reveal? Myrtle Henderson 235 My Father', Violin Afton Brown 173 Someone to Cheer for Johnny — Third Prize Story Uyrtle XM. Dean 188 More Value Than Many Sparrows Margaret Woods 213 Second Chance Blanche M. Hollingswortp, 220 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 2 Hazel M. Thomson 182 Editorial. We Are the Beneficiaries Louise W. Madsen 228 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parkey rr. 161 The Heart Looks Up Frontispiece Linnie F. Robinson On Pring ang Love, by Ma 1 Jones abbott, Spring, by Rowen Jensen Bills, 180 Who Plants a en, by Wille a Sgaard, 190; Curled; S Y Alice orrey ailey, 1 awn th ol, Thelm: Lund, 18; r Chapel, b Margaret B. Sho. Maker, 9; eather Tlef, by Jain da es, 236; athw, y, by Catherin B les, 237 la j a - Bo Exile, by Gilean Douglas, 239; Thanks for These, by Caroline ring Miner, 240. Mont S e Ir - S. Y the Relie¢ Society Genera} Board Association, Editoriay Gnd Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 841))- Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642. Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 g year; foreign, $2.00 year; 20c q Opy, payable in adWill be mj i ep change 9 FESS at once Giving old and n, Oddress. Entereg Os second Class matter February 18 1914 enclosed Rejecteg Manuscripts will be retained for SIX months Only, The Magazine is not F€sponsible for UNsolicited Manuscripts vance. Ot the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of M rch 3 °F iN section 1103, Act OF Octobe » 1917, outhorizeg June 29, 19) le Magazine is not Sent after Subscription expires. No back numbers can be Supplied. Renew Promptly so that no Copies Cceptance for Mailing at SPecial rate of Postage Provided GNUscripts will not be returned y ess rety Postage is Train upa Child My beloved sisters: To me it is a signal honor to have been named one of your advisers. I intend to do my best to render such service as the calling entails. I have thought to address you today as mothers on a text taken from the wise man's proverb: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it"' (Proverbs 22:6). The selection of this text was prompted by my conviction that training our children is our best antidote to the godless materialism, irreverent secularism, declining morality, adult and juvenile delinquency, increasing crime, and general disregard for the laws of God and the dignity of man which so plague our present society. It is not my purpose to harrow up your souls by dwelling upon this sordid aspect of our times. My only purpose in calling it to your attention at all is my belief that unless these pernicious practices are checked, they presage the end of our way of life and my further conviction that you, as members of the Relief Society, have the potential to inspire the parents of the Church, particularly mothers, more effectively to train their children to avoid them. The Church can and will assist in that training. But it can only assist. It is not and cannot be a 164 Marion G. Romney of The Council of the Tweive [Address Delivered at The Relief Society Annual General Conference October 3, 1963] substitute for parents in this, their most urgent parental responsibility. The importance of this responsibility was emphasized by the Lord in the very early days of the Restored Church, "... Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, [he said]... That teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25). Kighteen months later he explained that all children are innocent before him in their infant state, but thereafter "... That wicked one cometh and [by persuading them to disobedience] taketh away light and truth.... "But [he continues] I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and _ truth" (D&C 93:39-40). He then spoke directly to some of the leading brethren, first to Frederick G. Williams. 'You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction." I wonder if some of our afflictions, some of our juvenile delinquency, for example, could be due to the fact that we have not taught our children light and truth. THE Lord did not leave Brother Williams in any doubt as to his responsibility in the matter, for, he continued, "And now a commandment'I give unto you — if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house... " (D&C 93:41-43). He then said that Sidney Rigdon had "not kept the commandments concerning his children" (verse 44) and commanded him to do so. He reproved Bishop Whitney for the misconduct of his children, saying of him he "... Hath need to... Set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home... (D&C 93:50). Even the Prophet Joseph himself was reprimanded for failing properly to train his children. ParENTS today are under the same obligation as were these early brethren. The consequences of failing to train our children are just as serious now as they were then. Although in the revelation the Lord spoke to fathers, the obligation rests just as heavily upon mothers. In fact, some of the brethren have said that mothers, having a greater influence upon their children, bear the major responsibility. President Brigham Young, for example, said: The duty of the mother is to watch over her children and give them their early education, for impressions _received in infancy are lasting.... If mothers would take proper pains, TRAIN UP A CHILD they can instill into the hearts of their children what they please. You will, no doubt, recollect reading, in the Book of Mormon, of two thousand young men, who were brought up to believe that, if they put their whole trust in God, and served him, no power could overcome them. You also recollect of them going out to fight, and so bold were they, and so mighty their faith, that it was impossible for their enemies to slay them. This power and faith they obtained through the teachings of their mothers. Pe These duties and responsibilities devolve upon mothers far more than upon fathers (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 201, 1951 edition). Bearing this great responsibility, we must not be so busy with the urgent things pressed upon us in feeding, clothing, housing, and otherwise looking after the temporal needs of our children that we neglect the important things, the things calculated to fortify them against the evils of the world and prepare them for eternal life. We must not, as someone has said, have our minds and efforts so intent upon climbing the mountain that in our exhaustion we fail to see the view from the top. Perrnaps a look at some of the conduct which must be corrected will suggest things we must teach. Consider, for instance, vandalism, which is one of the things in which juvenile delinquents specialize — pounding down drinking fountain heads, chopping new hardwood floors in unfinished houses, breaking windows, slashing furniture, stripping cars of hub caps and dashboard gadgets, for example. 165 MARCH 1964 Among the crimes they most frequently commit are (1) those of passion, principally aggravated assault, sex perversion, immorality, and "forcible rape," and (2) those which violate the command, "Thou shalt not steal,'"' such as auto theft, burglary, grand larceny, and robbery. It ought to be sobering to Latter-day Saints to contemplate and realize how completely every one of these misdeeds would be eliminated by practicing the things which the Lord has specifically directed us to teach our children. Obedience, for example. "Your family must needs... Give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place," said the Lord to the Prophet Joseph (D&C 93:48). And what were the Prophet's sayings concerning lawlessness such as is rampant among us? One of the things he said was: "We believe in... Obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law" (Twelfth Article of Faith). Proper teaching of and training in this one fundamental principle of obedience to the laws of the land would effectively eliminate vandalism and crime. ANOTHER thing the Lord has directed us to train our children to do, which, neglected as it is, contributes to our present vexations, is to work. "An idle brain," so the saying goes, "is the devil's workshop." This is no doubt true because the scriptures associate idleness 166 with things most despicable. Describing the remnant of his people, as in vision he saw them, "after they had dwindled in unbelief," Nephi said, "They became a dark, and loathsome, and a filthy people, full of idleness and all manner of abominations" (1 Nephi 12:23). The Lord, condemning idleness in this dispensation, associates it with juvenile delinquency and wickedness, _ specifically with greediness. "The idler," he says, "shall be had in remembrance before the Lord," adding, "I... Am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and _ their children also are growing up in wickedness; they seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness" (D&C 68:30-31). In addition to obedience and work, I want to mention another one of the many things the Lord has specifically commanded us to teach our children — namely, to pray. Speaking of the inhabitants of Zion, he said, "They shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). He adds: "And a commandment I give unto them — that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people' (D&C 68:33). "Pray always," said the Lord to the Prophet, "that you may come off conqueror; yea, that lg Satan that d 35 Secret and tive in this of the irreS learn experience, and TRAIN Up A CHILD Priesthood, only V Persuasion, by long-suffering. By 8entleness and MARCH 1964 teaching and training them so that they voluntarily comply with the revealed truths of the gospel. Little by little they must, while still responsive to your guidance, come to realize and appreciate that 'men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). That, as the Prophet Joseph said, "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it.'"' Your children must, as a result of your guidance, through their own experience come to believe and know that, as the Prophet further said, "this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God" (DHC. V, pp. 134-135). Teach them that, as Alma told his son Corianton, "... Wickedness never was happiness" (Alma 41:10), and what Samuel the Lamanite said to the wayward Nephites, as he foretold their ultimate end if they refused to repent:... Ye have procrastinated the day of your salvation until it is everlastingly too late, and your destruction is made sure; yea, for ye have sought all of the days of your lives for that which ye could not obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity, which thing is contrary to the nature of that righteousness which is in our great and Eternal Head (Helaman 13:38). SomEHOW we must get our children as they grow up to understand these great truths. We can help them to understand it by approving proper conduct and 168 by letting them know that improper conduct brings sorrow. They can know when they are. Three years old if they are taught properly. Both our homes and our suciety will be put in order when and only when, by precept and example, parents teach and inspire in their children a willing resolution to live the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. For when one gets a witness of their divinity and glimpses the joy of their promise, he will pray fervently, work diligently, and strictly obey the commandments of God, which, of course, include the laws of the land. Now, as I conclude, I would like you to feel the spirit of The Book of Mormon on this matter of training your children. Speaking to his people who had been moved to repentance, chastened and strengthened in their faith by his great farewell address, King Benjamin thus counseled and instructed them concerning the training of their children: And again I say unto you as I have said before, that as ye have come to the knowledge of the glory of God... And have received a remission of your sins, which causeth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would that ye should... Always retain in remembrance, the greatness of God... And humble yourselves even in the depths of humility, calling on the name of the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith.... And behold, I say unto you that if ye do this ye shall always rejoice, and be filled with the love of God, and always retain a remission of your sins.... And ye will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to every man that which is his due. And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil. - -- But ye will teach them to walk in theways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to. Serve one another: (Mosiah 4:11-15). - 1 remember reading this passage with one of my sons when he was still in Primary. We were reading The Book of Mormon totogether, a verse at a time, he a verse and I a verse. As we read this passage, he was So moved by the statement, "ye will not suffer your children that they... Transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another and serve the devil..." that, as he thought of some of his own pranks, tears came to his eyes. From that time, until he grew to be a man, if ever he was of a mind to quarrel, all we had to do was to quote this statement, and his eyes would fill with tears. I assure you, my beloved sisters, that if you can get into the hearts and feelings of your children the attitude and spirit of this great sermon, training them will be easy. Imbue them with the spirit of the gospel and our children will not have a mind to injure one another, but to live peaceably and to render to everyone that which is his due. Teach them, as Benjamin said, "... To TRAIN UP A CHILD walk in the ways of truth and soberness. - - teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:15). You know, sisters, if mothers and fathers would, under the direction of the Holy Spirit, strictly follow the commandments of the Lord and the counsels of his prophets to train up their children in the way they should go, the inhabitants of the earth would soon reach that glorious state enjoyed by the Nephites when "there were no contentions and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another," when "... Because of the love of God which did dwell in.. - [their] hearts _.. There were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness _, 2 (4 Nephi 2, 15-16). So blessed were they that of them the prophet-historian said "... Surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God" (4 Nephi 16). Although such a blessed state seems beyond our present hope, let us not forget that the Lord has given us the assurance that the survivors of our present generation will enjoy a like society. This assurance should, and I believe it does, give us a determination to train up our children in the way they should go that they, with us, may be participants in the fulfillment of that glorious promise. That it may be so, | humbly pray. 169 Edith P. Backman Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1963] "Trus large seaof faces is a most beautiful, inspiring sight, but to stand before you and address you, I can assure you, is a very humbling responsibility. But it fills my heart with gratitude for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and for the strong, abiding testimony which is mine for the truthfulness of the Church and of its divinity. I am grateful beyond measure that I am a member of the Relief Society, the greatest women's organization in the whole world, and I am grateful for the opportunity to be able to serve with all of you sincere, devoted sisters. My testimony has become doubly strong because of that association with you, serving in an organization which has the _ highest ideals and standards by which to live. We all know that even in a humble, little cottage, in a palace, in a ward Relief Society, or a large stake, or even in a small branch of a mission, charity never 170 faileth. And what an appropriate motto for our Relief Society association to have. Moroni has given us a beautiful definition of charity. He said: "... Charity suffereth long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked" (Moroni 7:45). And then he went on to say "... Charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him.... If ye have not charity, ye are nothing, for charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity... (lbid., verses 46-47). Certainly, our dear Relief Society sisters cleave unto charity. They prove their true love for Christ by following his admonition, when he said, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do." This morning Sister Spafford read the names of several of our sisters who are visiting with us from faraway countries. We welcome them here, and we are grateful to have their spirit to buoy us up and to encourage us in our work here, because we know of some of the difficulties they are working under in the faraway missions, and although our languages may be different, our hearts are the same. Our spirits respond to the same love and charity, the same understanding. Our ideals and our aspirations are the same. Our desires to be good wives and mothers and to be of service are the same. Icemen w O are far away from ome, our Sisters at me, and Our Sisters IN every ¢ untry in € world ere the hurch Is functio It ig a Phlet, and on e Was a Picture of 100 "CHARITY NEVER FAILET HY yea, the Song o a prayer unto me Was a Sister the Wife of a seryj uty. Th lie Came to her aid, They Prepared Meals an kept her home in order Until she S able to eturn and Was stro ough to take ovey or herself as here that this Sister realized the true of Sisterhoog and of ore a beautify] Wives of Students €s of sery MARCH 1964 thanksgiving to her Heavenly Father for her membership in the Relief Society. She said that she was grateful to belong to an organization that offers opportunities for every member to be of service. And she appreciated the compact course of study and the great amount of help she received in rearing her family. But, above all, she was grateful for the spirituality which it brought into her home. Yes, the Relief Society does bless the sisters everywhere, but with these blessings comes a great responsibility. What about all of our neighbors, all of our inactive sisters, all of those who have not yet caught the spirit of Relief Society work? What are we doing about them? I pray that each of us will go away from this conference with a renewed determination to serve the Lord with all our heart, might, mind, and strength. With a prayer in our hearts, that with tolerance, and with humility and love and charity, that we will go out and reach those sisters, that we may touch their hearts, that they will have a strong desire to become members with us in this wonderful organization, that they, too, may share in the glorious blessings which are ours by being affiliated with the Relief Society organization. As we do this, always with a prayer in our hearts, let us keep our motto in mind, that "charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave unto charity." I am sure the Lord will bless us that our numbers will increase, and that we will receive much joy and happiness because we are able to share the blessings of Relief Society with all of our sisters. I ask for all of this humbly, in Jesus' name. Amen. 172 On Spring and Love Mabel Jones Gabbott It was the budding season of the year; The brown grass turned and drank of sun and rain, Each smallest spear, refreshed, grew taller then; And folded petals on the elm tree, near The garden gatepost where we talked, in clear Denial of the winter's grasp, began To yawn and stretch and open up again. Why does this first spring green disappear? It doesn't really; like love's first fragileness That still remains a part of love fulfilled, Spring is absorbed in summer's richer sheen; But after sudden showers when storms are stilled, Our frail first love and hints of new spring green Color all the aftermath of stress. Third Prize-winning story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Myrtle M. Dean Miarrua Lund planned her visit carefully. I won't want too many of my things. Just enough to get along for a few weeks. I don't want to clutter up Helen's house or cause extra trouble. Martha had been a widow almost a year. This was the first extended visit she had made to any of her faimilies. Now she planned to stay a whole month with Helen and Mark and the children. The most important thing I must remember, is never, not even once, to interfere with the family affairs or give unsolicited advice. I mustn't spoil the baby, or give the children sweet treats and ruin their appetites, Martha warned herself. But why should I be getting so worried? It seems such a little while since I was rearing my own children. I didn't mind a few suggestions. Just a few. I'm not old and fussy, I'm only fifty-five. But here Helen and David are getting quite large families. I'm going down and just enjoy Helen's children. Someone to cheer for Johnny But from the very first days of her visit, Martha found that it was going to be much more difficult than she had expected to keep from speaking out of turn about the children. It was for Johnny, the oldest child, that caused her the most concern. Johnny was thirteen, and no one seemed to try very hard to understand his various moods or put up with his boyish ways. Many times, Martha felt like challenging the boy's cause, but held her tongue. There were three other children in the family. Anne, a delightful replica of her mother, Helen, when she was Anne's age. She was now ten. Brent was seven, and he wore a wide toothless smile most of the time. Then baby Carol was two, an adorable child with blue eyes and dimples. Helen and Mark seemed content with life, and the whole family welcomed Martha warmly. It was the very first afternoon of her visit. Johnny came burst- 173 ing into the house, his eyes bright and his face sunny. "Mom, Mom," he called, "we are playing the Cubs tonight at five o'clock. It isn't just a practice. It is a real league game, and they are one of the best teams." Johnny had raised his voice louder than necessary, and it had skidded from high falsetto down almost to low bass. Martha smiled. She knew that Johnny had wanted her to know that he was on a league ball team. He looked embarrassed at the way his thirteen-year-old voice played tricks on him. She was about to speak when Helen's words stopped her. "Johnny, don't shout. I've told you before not to shout, I can hear." "QO. K., I'm sorry." Johnny's voice was low, and he turned away to avoid Martha's eyes. 174 Martha waited a moment before she could trust herself to speak. Then she addressed herself to Johnny. "What place do you play on your team?" she asked. "Oh, I play third base tonight. Sometimes I pitch for our team. Our coach uses three pitchers so none of us will tire our arm too much, I am lucky to get to play third. There were three other kids that tried out for it." Some of the enthusiasm had returned to Johnny's voice as he felt Martha's interest. "That boy," Helen said in a troubled tone after he had left the room. 'Would you believe, Mother, that this is the same boy? You remember how cute he was with his chubby legs and winsome smile and dimples. But now, those lanky legs—his trousers can't keep up with them, and that sliding squeaky voice, and he simply shouts as though I were deaf." Helen clasped both of her hands over her face, as though she were completely baffled. Martha knew that her face showed her disapproval. She looked away from Helen and choked back her words that hurried to her mind. Maybe I should tell her now what I think. Maybe it is my duty to say something. If he shouts, it is because no one around here pays any attention to him, only to criticize. Johnny seems to be just a thirteen-yearold nuisance, who eats a lot and grows too fast and sometimes says silly things to get a little attention. This was what she wanted to tell Helen now, but she breathed deeply, and after a moment tried to make her voice sound natural and speak lightly. She must not break her resolve already. "You know, Helen, I've heard that most all boys reach a stage when their voice slips from high C to low G, but maybe you would like Johnny to go through life talking like a girl. And good-looking men like your father were once long-legged, growing boys. His own mother told me how she was afraid he was going all to legs when he was a kid." "Well, I do hope he turns out as good as Dad and Mark," Helen said a bit more cheerfully. An hour later, Mark came home from his game of golf. He had gone to play straight from his ofSOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY fice. He was smiling and gave quite a recital of the game. "Brad Clark says I'm doing so well I'll be in the league play by late summer. I'm sure glad you gave me those golf clubs for my birthday, Helen." Mark. Went about calling loudly from bathroom to hall to living room talking enthusiastically about his game. "He shouts every bit as loud as Johnny when he is pleased with himself," Martha told herself. "Brad Clark is Mark's best friend. He says that the fellows always take their wives along when they go for tournament playoffs. If Mark makes it, just think, I'll get to go to Las Vegas, and California and even Sun Valley."' Helen spoke excitedly. "Don't count your chickens yet, Helen," Mark said. "Is dinner ready? I'm plain starved. Golfing sure make a fellow hungry." "IT told Johnny to be home by six for dinner. It is almost time," Helen told him. Johnny came in before dinner was on the table. He hurried in to the bathroom to clean up and get out of his ball suit. Helen caught a glimpse of him and exclaimed, "Johnny, you look like you had rolled in the dirt. Don't wear that suit again until I take it to the cleaners." As Johnny took his place at the table, Martha knew by his solemn face that they had lost their game to the Cubs. For once she was glad that everyone paid little at- 175 MARCH 1964 tention to him nor questioned about the game. Perhaps it might be a good idea to get Mark to talking again about golf. "Your father made quite a hit at the golf course today, Johnny," Martha said. "Tell us about it, Mark." Mark obliged by giving a minute description of how he teed off and survived so many hazards. He had played eighteen holes, he said. Helen laughed heartily as Mark went on telling how his ball landed so near the water's edge by a little pond that it took a really miraculous shot to get it away, and it landed safe near a cup. Johnny was smiling and as enthusiastic for his father's skill as the rest. "Boy, I'd like to go and watch you play, Dad. Maybe I could even caddie for you." Just why can't they notice Johnny's games that much? Martha wondered. A few days later, Johnny made another effort to gain a bit of attention. "T get to pitch for our game against the Bears, tonight," he said, looking mostly at his grandmother, but watching the rest of the family, too. Helen was busy starting dinner, and Martha was holding the baby. "What is your team called?' Martha asked. "We are the Lions. We have a pretty good team, but sometimes we are quite tame for Lions. We don't beat all our games." 176 "Well, neither do the Yankees," Martha said. "One must learn to be a good loser. That is half of the object of playing a game," she explained. She knew that Johnny was still smarting under his team's last loss. "It is a warm afternoon. You will be tired riding a bike to the park. I will drive you down in my car, Johnny. I think I'd like to watch the Lions and the Bears play. It is a long time since I watched boys play ball."" Martha tried to sound convincing. "Oh, I can go, Grandma. You don't need to take me." Now Martha didn't really know whether Johnny was afraid he would be a bother to her, or did not want to be seen coming to a game with just an old lady. "T'd sure like you to see our game, though," the boy hastened to say. Helen heard the conversation and spoke up promptly, '"Goodness, Mother, you would be bored stiff. They are just a bunch of kids. Thirteen and fourteeners. You don't want to go and sit an hour or two on those seats. They are just board benches and no back rests." Right now is the time for me to speak up to Helen. Right now I will tell her that showing your interest in a boy's doings when he is thirteen and unsure of himself and the world he lives in, is more important than worrying about a hard bench to sit on, or being busy with many little trifles, or even a round of golf for an adult. But no, Helen and Mark must learn this for themselves. Martha counted ten, then turned to Johnny. "You know when my David was about your age, I went often to watch his team play. He pitched sometimes, too. Your Mom used to go along. She liked to watch her brother play. Don't you remember, Helen?" "I'm afraid it was Rod Barnes I was more interested in than Brother Dave or the game. I had a kid crush on Rod. He was catcher and I thought he was cute." Helen laughed, recalling the days. "You run along, Johnny," Martha told him when _ they reached the parking at the ball park. "Looks as if they are about ready to play." Martha felt a bit self-conscious coming 'here, a strange woman following a boy along. She thought she would let him get on the field, then she would saunter over to a bench. She found a place where she had a good view of the batter's box and of the bases. There were quite a number of watchers there already. Mothers, a few fathers, and many youngsters the age of the players. As she watched Johnny it seemed that he knew all the tricks of the big league pitchers as far as she could tell. He stooped and picked up the rosin bag to use on his palms, then stood on one foot, then turned to view all of the bases carefully before he made a throw to the batter. "Hey! Johnny, that was a swell SOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY curve you threw," she heard a fan call as Johnny came in after the first inning. All through the game there were cheers for him from the crowd. No wonder the boy comes home all excited and wants his family to know about his games. Martha hadn't enjoyed anything as much as this game for a long time. If some of her enthusiasm could just seep over to his family! "Boy, we just made that game by a squeak," Johnny said, as they drove home. "Just by two runs. I was scared stiff." "You did a mighty fine job pitching, and you made two of the runs, too, if I counted right," Martha praised him. "T heard you cheering for me, Grandma, when I made those runs. It sure helps to hear someone cheer," Johnny said. "Well, and I heard a lot of other folks cheering for you, some said you threw a good curve, and a drop ball, whatever that means." "TI wish my folks liked to watch me play, like some of the kids' parents do. I guess they just don't care for baseball. Dad likes golf, and Mom is too busy or something." Johnny's voice was wistful, and his eyes held a yearning that made Martha have a choke come in her throat. When they reached home, Helen was busy talking to Madge Call, planning a progressive dinner they were to head next week. Mark was cleaning up for dinner. Anne was excited about a dance program she was in and was 177 MARCH 1964 dancing about the living room, practicing her new dance steps. The baby was tired and hungry, and even Brent's usual toothless smile was turned upside down. Someone had accidently broken one of his model airplanes that afternoon. "Mother is a wonderful cook, Madge, she can help me think up a good recipe. We want something special, Mother, for the dessert for our dinner," Helen said. When things had quieted a bit, and the family came to dinner, Martha planned to talk a bit, if she could hold the floor for a change. She began before anyone else had time to get a start on her. "Tt was quite a ball game today that Johnny's' team played against the Bears." Martha raised her voice a bit louder than usual to be sure to get attention. "You don't mean that you went, Grandma?" Mark asked in surprise. "Certainly, I went, and you should have seen Johnny pitch that game. Why he threw outcurves and in-curves and drop balls and really kept the batter guessing. He made two runs, too. It was two, wasn't it, Johnny, or was it three?" Martha talked on rapidly, not allowing time for interpolations from anyone on any other subject. Even Johnny sat wide-eyed and smiling as she extolled him. For a moment he was almost believing all she was saying about him. As she stopped talking for a moment, he lowered his eyes modestly, but Martha 178 saw the sweet smile that clung to his lips. ""Must have been some playing Johnny did today," Mark conceded. "I surely take my hat off to a fellow like Dan Hartley who will take the trouble to coach a bunch of kids." "Dan is sure a swell guy," Johnny spoke up then. Miartua felt triumphant in the fact that Johnny's game had taken up ten minutes of the dinnertime conversation, so, when Mark quite naturally remembered that he had been playing that afternoon, too, and needed some attention, Martha relinquished her time to him. Mark went into another vivid play-byplay account of his two rounds of golf, not missing any of the details of his great tee-offs. Mark is just a little boy, men are that way, I guess, but can't they see that Johnny is a little boy, too? He is their little boy, Martha said to herself as they left the table. "Tonight is our last game of this season," Johnny announced that last week of Martha's visit. "We play the Tigers, and they are the best team of all." Martha felt a tugging inside her chest of — maybe it was loneliness at the thought of returning home—home where there would be only quiet and no worrying about Johnny and his problems. And she was really going to miss hearing the talk of ball and dinner parties and even of Mark's golf. She was glad, too, that she had, so far, held her tongue and not really spoken her mind as she had been tempted to do so many times here. Now this was Johnny's last season game. She wanted to see him play, but it was such an important game to win to come out on top. She felt she could not bear to see Johnny's face if they lost the game. "Your last game, you say, Johnny?" Martha repeated. "Tonight, did you say, Johnny?" Helen jumped up excitedly and started for Johnny's room. "Your ball suit — I've had so many things, I simply forgot your suit. I'd be disgraced if you play in that dirty suit, your most important game." Martha let Helen finish before she interrupted her. "You won't have to be disgraced, neither will Johnny. I hope you will forgive my interference, but I had some things that needed cleaning before I go home, so I took Johnny's suit along." "Oh, Mother, thanks. I'd simply die if he went that dirty," Helen spoke in relief. Arter dinner was over, Johnny got into his ball suit. He seemed extra quiet and looked troubled. Martha, watching him, knew that he was nervous about the game. "Just play your best, Johnny. If you lose you will know you did all you could. Do you pitch the game tonight?" "Yes, Johnny, you can't do more than try your best," Mark spoke up. SOMEONE TO CHEER FOR JOHNNY "I play on third tonight. Pll feel awful if I let a ball go by me. Some of those Tigers are really tough," Johnny said. "Lions are fierce, too,"" Martha pointed out. Three of Johnny's teammates came by now on their bicycles. They called in for Johnny, as they were all supposed to get to the park early for final instructions. "My Dad is bringing a load of folks down in his station wagon later for the game," one of the boys said. "Mom has to pick Dad up at his office, he gets off just near game time," another boy remarked. Martha noted that Mark and Helen heard the boys talking and looked over at each other. She watched Johnny's face, too. It grew so serious and she thought that he was about to speak. He wants to ask his father to go to the game, but is too proud to ask when his friends are here. As he turned back to the boys, Martha spoke. "You boys play real hard and I'll bet on your winning," she laughed. "But if you do lose, be good losers." "Don't talk about losing. We gotta win this one," the tallest boy said. "I hardly ever let a swift ball pass me now. My Dad has been throwing balls to me for a week now, each evening," one of the visitors said. "Come on, Johnny, or we'll be late. Let's go." The boys all hur- 179 MARCH 1964 ried away and pedaled down the street. Martha felt a big lump in her throat and a stinging in her eyes. She wanted so much to see that last game. But she knew that it wasn't what Johnny wanted most. He wanted his parents to witness this game. She started to leave the room. She heard Mark speaking to Helen. "What kind of parents has Johnny got? Helen, we've got a boy playing on that team tonight. It's their last game. Did you hear Johnny say this is the last one, and we haven't been to one?" "Yes, I know. We have surely let our boy down, Mark." Helen was weeping. 'Well, hurry up everybody. We are all going to be at that game," Mark spoke hurriedly. "But, Mark, didn't you say you told Brad you would meet him for golf?" Mark was already picking up the phone. "I'm sorry but I can't make it for golf tonight, Brad. No — No — I've got a kid playing ball tonight on the league. You see he's already made league play, all on his own." "T'll be glad to stay with the baby," Martha offered. "Oh, no, you won't, Grandma. Johnny would feel let down if you were not there to help us cheer for his team," Mark told her. "T'll call my regular baby sitter, Mother. You are coming along,"' Helen said. "Yes, and cheer loud everybody," Mark called. "Just to see Johnny's face when he sees us will be worth a million dollars." Miyrrie M. Dean, Provo, Utah, who is already well known to readers of the Magazine, tells us that she loves to write. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers. Her first story was published in The Relief Society Magazine in 1925. "Then, for many years, I was occupied with my young family and with Church duties, and so did very little writing. In 1948 I was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, and in 1949 I placed second, and second in 1959. I enjoy writing and divide my spare moments with genealogical research and writing family histories and short story writing. My husband is Charles E. Dean, and we have five children. Our families are our chief interest." manasa Rowena Jensen Bills The brilliance of the sun came forth And focused on the walk, Snow became silvery lakes; And | heard sparrow-talk. The trees adorned themselves in buds, Insects emerged to sing; March winds mellowed to a breeze, Heralding the spring. Mrs. Esther E. Peterson, a native Utahn, Assistant Secretary of Labor in the Cabinet of President Lyndon B. Johnson, in January, was given the additional post of Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs, with the Special duties of "organizing the consumer and making his voice heard." Mrs, Peterson now holds the highest Position in the executive department of the Government ever asSigned to a woman. A _ wife, mother, and homemaker, Mrs. Peterson has a Wide interest and special training in many fields of social service, and civic and governmental affairs, LESLEY Frost Ballantine, daughter of poet Robert Frost, whose death all America mourned in 1963, has been a teacher, a journalist, an author, a bookstore proprietor, and a lecturer for the State Department in Spain and Latin America. In an article in the December Redbook, "Our Family Christmas," she describes a Christmas when the Frost children were young, and she lists a group of choice family Christmas readings that any family would find useful. Kyunc O. Kim is the only woman pilot in the Republic of Korea. She is now the proud owner of a new Piper Colt airplane. The project was sponsored by the International Organization of Women Pilots, by a Special committee called a "Colt for Kim," which was organized through the efforts of Mrs. Doris H. Renninger of East Norwich, New York, and other members of the women pilots' organization, Lapy Clementine Churchill is the subject of a biography, My Darling Clementine, written by Jack Fishman, which is on the top-selling list of books in Britain, the European Continent, and America. Lady Clementine, a Grecian-type beauty, has devoted her charm, tact, and intelligence to her unusual husband, Sir Winston, and to his turbulent career. He proudly acknowledges her contributions to his life, hapPiness, and success, EDITORIAL We are the LatTeR-DAyY Saint women are the beneficiaries of an inheritance of ideals realized; of faith exercised; of virtues richly rewarded; of strivings fulfilled; of goals finally reached. From the women who pioneered in the beginning days of the Church, the women of today may inherit all they will accept of the qualities of womanhood. We have received the legacy of hope when to hope seemed fruitless, of ability to accept and overcome, of strength to endure to the end, of work unceasing, of loyalty to our Father in heaven, to the Church, to loved ones, to each other. This legacy, wisely used, can make us rich in blessings in this life and the life to come. Ours is an unusually beneficient heritage of love from a Godfearing and God-loving ancestry. Ours is the heritage of testimonies borne in words and living deeds. Ours is a heritage of courage from women who had to summon courage in the depths of adversity and trial, sacrifice, and tribulation—courage obtained from sublime faith, unwavering determination, and absolute knowledge of the divinity of the gospel. The early Relief Society women were resourceful in meeting the vicissitudes of life in their day. Resourcefulness is a quality Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Mary R. Young Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary V. Cameron Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Wealtha S. Mendenhall Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Pearle M. Olsen Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Fanny S. Kienitz 182 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer beneficiaries much needed in our day. They achieved patience in the midst of difficulty. Patience is needful to us in our complex lives. They, of necessity, became industrious and thrifty, with provident living their watchword. Industry and thrift add to our security as we, too, strive to be provident homemakers. They learned dependence upon the Lord, and prayer guided their lives. Prayer and dependence upon the Lord guide us as well. To see the right, the straight and narrow path through chaos and confusion was their blessing, and is our desire. They had to simplify their lives to a degree perhaps not expected of us, but their pattern is one to be followed. We in Relief Society are the beneficiaries of the Prophet's vision, of a revelation from heaven for the creation of an organization for the women of the Church. We are the beneficiaries of inspired plans, well-defined policies, and wisely determined procedures. All the greatness of the Father's plans for his daughters is ours to enjoy. This is our inheritance; not to be squandered but to be built upon. This is our treasure; not to be buried, but to be increased. This is our inspiration; not to be snuffed as a candle, but followed as a light. —L. W. M. | Elizabeth B. Winters Hazel S. Cannon Oa J. Cannon LaRue H. Rosell Hazel S. Love Lila B. Walch Jennie R. Scott Fawn H. Sharp Lenore C. Gundersen Alice L. Wilkinson Celestia J. Taylor Marjorie C. Pingree LaPriel S. Bunker Anne R. Gledhill Darlene C. Dedekind Irene W. Buehner Belva Barlow Cleone R. Eccles Irene C. Lloyd Zola J. McGhie The American Donor Program Tue keys to the success of the Red Cross Blood program are the individual donor and the spirit of giving which motivates him to make an investment in living. It is this same universal spirit of brotherhood which makes the humanitarian work of the Red Cross possible everywhere in the world. This makes it possible for the American Red Cross to operate the largest blood program in the world, totally through voluntary donors, providing about fifty per cent of the whole blood used in the Nation. To help keep pace with the increased blood needs of the Nation brought on by rises in population and medical advances, the Red Cross is carrying on extensive research in three broad areas: maintaining a rare blood donor file; long-time preservation of blood by freezing; and research in fractionation—the discovery and refinement of blood components which are necessary in certain diseases. Gamma globulin prevents and modifies some diseases; serum albumin combats shock; fibrinogen controls hemorrhaging in certain conditions. The gift of blood is a two-way miracle which heals the receiver, and blesses the giver with the wonderful satisfaction that can come only from helping someone else to live. Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue Tue April 1964 issue of The Relief Society M agazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. All of the authors of these stories are being featured as story writers for the first time in the Magazine, and their places of residence indicate the widespread geographical distribution of Latter-day Saint women interested in contributing to The Relief Society Magazine. Watch for these stories in April: "More Blessed to Receive," by Nita Ellis, Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales "The Storm," by Lila Spencer, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada "Please, Not This One," by Merle E. Feriante, San Mateo, California "Be Yourself," by Betty G. Spencer, American Fork, Utah 184 Don't you love your sisters! Margaret Russell WE were standing on our respective porches, chatting. I, broom in hand, had just remarked on the lovely day. She had agreed that it was indeed lovely and, pulling on gloves, mentioned that she was going to see her sister. I said, "Wonderful! I envy you." She said, "You should. My sister is a doll." Then, obviously speaking from the heart, she said it. "Don't you just love your sisters!" The remark warmed me at the time and has rewarmed me many times since. I have come to the conclusion that the sister relationship is one of the very precious things of this world. I was third in a family of five girls, so I have always had sisters. One of my first memories involves hiding behind a door after a punishment, with a hand suddenly reaching around with an offering of candy. I can also remember walking to that exciting, but rather frightening place known as school, with that same hand firmly holding mine, And I can recall quite clearly — the moment still generates a glow — a tiny sister sitting on my mother's lap, smiling and holding out her hands. We were a noisy, active group. My father taught school in small Wyoming towns, and we were always piling into the car to take a trip up to Five Springs or out into the badlands. Once we took a wrong turning and became lost, going on and on into the night with the headlights boring into the darkness and the stars blazing out above. After a time the moon rose. It was enormous and 185 MARCH 1964 deep red in color. Somewhere on the mountain there was a forest fire! The car became very still, with only an occasional, cryptic remark from one of our parents to break the silence. Suddenly, without any need for consultation, we girls joined hands and bowed our heads in prayer. We loved to sing and did so almost every evening. To this day, five minutes after any two or more of us get together, the house is likely to be bursting with song. My oldest sister was very popular with the boys. She was very popular with me, also, as she was almost never without a box of candy, often the kind with Brazil nuts in the middle. She had a difficult time, though, in many ways, because our parents being still young and tense, were determined to do their full duty by her. Any small misdemeanor found Plet sitting, cringing, on a chair while the law was explained to her in no uncertain fashion. Today Plet is a very special person, lovely to look at and to talk to, capable and womanly always. All I can say is — scoldings and chocolates must be magic therapy! My second sister was very particular about her drawer. I am positive that she had the position of each article duly measured and recorded, because I can recall investigating with the greatest of care and still having to flee for my life later. Carol was always very efficient and talented. She learned to bake bread at an early 186 age and to "do" hair. She also directed the singing in the Primary at eleven years of age and played the piano a year or two later. She is presently a resident of Albuquerque where she gives away everything she owns that isn't nailed down. She remembers birthdays, keeps family records, and is, I can say without equivocation, the kindest, most thoughtful individual I have ever known. Orvilla, the fourth one of our group, had blue eyes and dark hair worn in ringlets. Mother dampened the hair every morning and brushed the ringlets into place around her finger, anchoring them with bobby pins. On below-zero, Big-Horn-Mountains mornings these _ ringlets would become white with frost. The other distinctive thing about Orvilla was the way she broke things. It was always understood that she was never under any circumstances to be allowed to carry anything breakable. I can remember plodding along a dirt road one day with a little pest hopping and jumping about beside me, coaxing and coaxing to carry the mayonnaise. "I'll be so careful. I'll hold it so tight and walk just like this. Oh come on, please...." Finally I gave it to her, and two seconds later she tripped over a rock and broke it. Orvilla lives today in California, in a small ward. She has a blackboard in her kitchen that is always filled with notations of the things she had to do this week. She writes rather droll, tongue- in-cheek letters about the goingson in the Golden State. Ruth was our baby. She still is. I wonder if it's this way with all families. We five have been adults for many years, but Plet is still the "big" sister, and Ruth is the "baby." We look to Plet for a certain amount of guidance and are all rather free with our advice to Ruth. Anyway, be that as it may, Ruth was a very satisfactory little one, singing about "Master, the tempest is raging; the pillows are tossing high," and other interesting things. She was always bringing cats home and producing them from _behind her back with a heartfelt ple-e-ese! This method had never worked with us older girls, but it did with Ruth. It's a wonder, though, that we didn't kill her. By the time she came along the rest of us were climbing the cottonwoods and walking the ridgepole of the barn with no trouble at all. As soon as Ruth could toddle we dragged her along. I was so used to romping around on top of the barn that I could not understand why neighbor children acted nervous, or why Ruth slipped once and hung, her skirt attached to a nail on the edge of the roof, until rescued. Ruth now has six little ones of her own. We talk together on the phone nearly every day, and her remarks are always interspersed with little '"careful-there-Louis" and "well-go-get-the-mop, dear." She has an almost limitless capacity for love and patience and she is never, believe it or not, in DON'T YOU LOVE YOUR SISTERS! The least degree critical of anyone. These, then, are my sisters. My blood sisters. Any time I see any one of them I am gloriously happy, and we talk, talk, talk. And now I come to the thought that inspired this article. I was sitting in Relief Society one Tuesday, enjoying and being mellowed by an exceptionally fine social science lesson. My eye fell on one sister who is so stalwart and good, upon sisters who have devoted their lives to others, a sister who has three sons on missions; the members of our presidency, who shoulder so uncomplainingly the heavy burdens of work that their offices entail, whose sweet spirits do much to insure that our meetings are always inspirational and worthwhile. As I looked at these sisters and the many other dear ones present that day, I felt the same glow of love, the same spiritual closeness that I feel for my physical sisters. And I realized, as I mentioned earlier, the preciousness of the relationship, and felt extremely blessed for having sisters in such abundance. The picture came to me of Relief Societies meeting all over the world all of them attended by women who are striving to live the principles of the gospel, all united by a spiritual tie. How wonderful it is to be associated together! I am sure that all of you, everywhere, say it with me. Love our sisters? Oh, indeed, indeed we do. 187 SParrows Margaret Woods Walisall, Staffordshire, England! "Neffer mind," said the old lady, "you shall have all the Scraps of fat and iy buy some suet for you, ven I go to town." bird. It was a difficult task. The Scavengers and birds of prey would Spot the food and seize it + 1 I I order to protect himself, black opportunity. This Made it hard Work for the old lady. She expended 188 MORE VALUE THAN MANY SPARROWS THE morning came, however, when the old lady could not leave her bed. She tried, desperately, but the pain in her chest and the weight of her limbs was too great, "You won't forget to feed my blackbird, will you?" she would the weaker ones received enough. "How is blackbird faring? Has he been seen today?" But others did not share her interest, although she knew they Meant well, "He must be finding his food elsewhere," she decided. "He has forgotten how [| loved and cared for him. He might be.... Oh, no! Not that. "But she wondered if he could have died from hunger because of the neglect of other people. She hoped not and continued to place food outside each day. The many, inevitable Sparrows, One mild, summer evening, she sat rocking in her chair by the Home Who Plants a Garden? Eva Willes Wangsgaard | love a flower garden. Gardens hold Our yesterdays, todays, and coming years. Who plants a garden watches time unfold As sharply pointed as the iris spears. Her loving hands preside at beauty's birth. She sees a plan become a living scene Replete with color rooted deep in earth As warm as flame or cool as ivy green. She garners strength and peace of mind from soil, Becomes an intimate with sun and wind, Forgets her pain, her sorrow, and her toil, Renews her faith, herself is disciplined. A gardener's eyes reveal a forward look And patience learned from wisdom's ancient book. the €arth, the rose has proba SOCiation With m 1 l er Cultivation a Cord, dating ack ¢ 2 of kings OSes are a Part of our J; » Places, and things we the wor * *Oses aboy in literature and l Eardens of the World, €y are 8Town extens; beauty but for Perfume an Sively, not Only for their d flavorings, for Medicines and yj Content of the rose hips, 197 MARCH 1964 It is believed that the rose originated in Central Asia; then spread to North America, to west Asia Minor, and Europe. There is evidence that a garden rose was cultivated in Greece about the fifth century B. C. And in Chinese gardens a. P. 1000. The Moors, invading Spain, brought with them roses they had discovered in Syria. One was the first yellow rose to appear in Europe, the climbing Cathay Rose. Crusaders brought back roses; merchants carried roses from country to country, and from continent to continent. Out of the long and tangled history of the rose some facts emerge. Though most wild roses are pink or white, wall paintings in Crete, 4000 years old, depict the "Persian Yellow" rose. Gardeners all over the world have cultivated and crossed and recrossed roses to bring us finally the magnificent hybrid tea roses, the reigning queens of our gardens today. The horticultural named varieties are divided loosely into two classes: 1. The Hybrid Perpetuals (the old garden roses) 2. The Hybrid Tea Roses — now the world's favorite roses (these include climbers and tree roses). The rose of the year 1964 is the magnificent "World's Fair Salute," a rich red beauty of perfect form. This rose, with previous "Roses of the Year" — "South Seas," "Tropicana" — and others will be on special exhibit at the World's Fair in New York. GROWING ROSES Buy good stock. Consult your nurseryman if disease develops. Water deeply once a week. Have good drainage. If you sprinkle, do so early enough in the day so that the bushes will dry before sunset to avoid mildew. Slipping roses can be very successful. For a slip, either tear off or clip off a stem from a most beautiful rose — with six sets of leaves. Clip off the three bottom leaves; now plant so that only the three top leaves are above ground. Cover with an inverted glass jar and keep damp until the second year. Put a thin wash of mud in the bottle in the hot summer months to temper the sun. These "bottle-babies" can be transplanted. Libraries can acquaint you further with the vast world of roses. Some gardeners recommend afternoon as the best time for cutting roses for bouquets. Plunge them into lukewarm water — never cold — up to their necks. Change them daily to fresh, lukewarm water. VIEW IN MUNICIPAL ROSE GARDENS, PORTLAND, OREGON TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS 192 PINK PARFAIT ROSE "Pink Parfait," one of the 1961 winners, is particularly showy for mass planting. It bears abundantly; has pink petals, frosted with white at tips and base, and is beautiful in bud and as a full-bloom rose, with its gold heart and its curled, white-frosted petals. TROPICANA ROSE "Tropicana," 1963 winner, has won the most prizes — thirteen international awards. Seldom a new color bursts on the world of roses, and in such a perfect plant — a brilliant, almost fluorescent, pure orange-red. Medium large, very full, fragrant, very vigorous, tall; tough, glossy foliage. Non-fading. May attain the popularity of "Peace." SOUTH SEAS ROSE "South Seas," 1962 winner, is very large and a very full, warm, rich pink, faintly washed with deeper pink. Beautiful from bud to maturity, very hardy, disease and mildew-resistant, as are all award winners, tested for years before marketing. Blooms profusely. PEACE ROSE "Peace," 1945 winner from France, named at close of World War II, with a 9.6 rating of a possible 10 points, is still the world's most popular rose. Light to deep yellow, with pale to deep cerise pink toward petals' edges, fading almost to white and pale pink in maturity. Very vigorous, very large, very full, deep green, glossy foliage. Profuse bloom. a witm y a ¥ ' fe " tj ill Curled in Seed Alice Morrey Bailey More than beauty wraps these slopes in white From creek to peak, from crag to river-bed. A blanket, this, against the winter night, Suspending floods from which the streams are fed. And snug beneath, in caves and hollow trees, The mountain mothers feed their young. The pine Is printed in the nut, honey-drowsed are bees, And curled in seed is fragile columbine. And soon the sun's slow wheeling toward the north Will melt the sterile waste deep to the roots. When bright-eyed babies of the woods come forth, And limbs are tender-green with new-leafed shoots, These hills will burst to life, for down below, Awaiting warmth, is spring in embryo. 197 THE MATTERHORN, SWITZERLAND TRANSPARENCY BY TOM ELLIOTT Be grdg a AY ities TRANSPARENCIES BY ROBERT PEASE Painting with Glass Florian H. Thayn Wat does a thrifty, talented woman do with old broken glass dishes, empty pop bottles, or scraps of colored glass? In College Park Ward, Washington Stake, she saves them, guards them jealously, and sorts them carefully into dozens of shoe boxes! If a longsuffering husband, who has patiently seen her through the tin-canused-flash-bulb-tree-ornament phase, asks Why? She calmly explains: "A lovely picture is being created from practically nothing." From there the conversation gets more complicated, or unbelievable, depending upon his past experiences with unfinished projects! 198 PAINTING WITH GLASS Pictures from glass are a creation of Betty Beesley Huber, ward work meeting Jeader. It all began over two years ago when she yisioned the artistic possibilities of the use of tiny pieces of glass to create a three-dimensional mosaic picture lovely enough to hang in simple rooms, OF sufficiently striking to decorate lavish homes and offices. Her daughter, Sharon Huber Carter, sketched the designs, and from the ideas of this mother-daughter team have grown a most unusual activity for the College Park Relief Society and a blossoming business for the Huber-Carter team. His art is the result of much study and experiThe process for t mentation. Nearly a year was spent finding the proper adhesive. The popular glues commonly used by housewives to dishes and wobbly furniture failed, as did the cements and epoxy glues. Finally, a jeweler's cement was found, which, when properly applied, holds the glass secure. Collecting the Glass As with most arts, it is the time that is the expense. Hours and hours have been spent collecting the glass and processing it. The most easily obtained colors in glass are found in broken bleach bottles and in green soft-drink bottles. The bright blue found in magnesia bottles and other containers is a favorite color. The pinks found in cheap dishes from second hand stores or in variety stores are most welcome. One sister brought in the parts of a once lovely orange iridescent bowl and said her sorrow at breaking it faded when she realized she could use it in the pictures! Sister Huber accidentally broke a family heirloom, a cut glass bowl, which couldn't be mended. The pictures that have bits of that bowl in the design are a pioneer treasure! Another sister enlisted her relatives and spent part of her vacation time gathering glass in Upstate New York. A broken chandelier she found in the attic of an old hotel supplied the marbleized ''cobblestones" for a fifty-two inch long picture, Camelot. She also discovered a discarded automobile windshield that broke perfectly into honeycombed pieces. The glass was used to give depth and texture to a delightful seahorse. While much of the glass is obtained without cost, unusual and bright colors are expensive purchases from stained glass dealers. The milk-white glass of broken milk glass or from face cream jars gave a jolly clown perfect 'makeup.' About the only glass that is not satisfactory is the clear white kind found in most kitchen tumblers, jelly glasses, or white pop bottles, because there is no reflection or depth from such glass. Some colored marbles have been used (when broken in smaller pieces), as special accents. Preparing the Glass The accumulated glass is placed in a 450-500° oven for 30 to 40 minutes to heat it thoroughly. Carefully it is removed with kitchen tongs and hot pads and immediately plunged into a bucket of cold water. The intense heating and quick cooling cause the glass to spackle and to break easily without causing sharp needle splinters that result when unheated glass is pounded. For ease in sorting, only one color of glass should be placed in a bucket at a time, but several pieces may be chilled at one time. (There have been no accidents, since caution has always been used in removing the hot glass from the oven. A lid may be placed over the bucket in case the cracking glass jumps.) The cold glass is placed on pads of newspapers, and the flat side of a hammer is used to break it into small pieces. Again, caution should be used. Small children should be kept away from this process. Even the glass that is nearly powdered in the breaking process is saved and used. In this project, there just isn't any waste! 200 Preparing the Picture Background The next step is to obtain a sturdy picture frame. Brother Ralph Huber was recruited to miter corners and to make some odd-dimensioned frames, but the sisters also searched many fun hours in secondhand shops and old barns, and watched for sales to find the coveted frames at the best prices. The frames must be sufficiently strong to hold the weight of the glass and the plywood backing to which the glass is glued. 201 "Painting'' the Glass Picture A white or egg-shell, plain textured drapery fabric has been found the most satisfactory background on which to work. The material is tacked and glued to plywood cut to fit the frame. The outline of the design is lightly sketched in pencil on the cloth, and then the tedious, but rewarding task of placing the hundreds of pieces of glass begins. The design is first laid out without glue so that it can be altered and changed to satisfy one's artistic taste. It is important to know where and how the glass should be placed before the glue is applied because, once the glue is on, the pieces are there to stay. Care must be used to keep any glue off the fabric where no glass is desired. The glass does not adhere well if too large pieces are used, or if plenty of glue is not used, or if the glue is not also placed on. Adjoining pieces. By using many small pieces close together, the effect of feathers, wind in ships' sails, or various textures can be achieved. Sometimes the glass seems to be placed two or three layers deep, but this illusion comes from the variations in the thickness of the glass. As the placing of the glass progresses, pieces often must be broken to obtain the correct size. To keep the tiny bits from escaping and damaging floors where the work is done, Sister Huber contrived a 12" x 12" wooden box with high sides and a raised platform inside to give the hammering sisters a restricted area in which to "break and search!" Generally, the pictures have the most appeal with the cloth background left bare, but a most attractive, old-fashioned bouquet design was given depth and real importance when the entire background was filled with the pale blue-white found in a heavy soft drink bottle. Gold accents are painted on. Finally, the completed picture is tried in the frame to determine the color of paint, varnish, or finish that will complement the picture. Many of the design ideas are from advertisements, but many artistic sisters made up their own. It is of prime importance to keep the design simple and uncluttered, and careful planning will determine whether your picture is a craft or a lovely work of art. It can be a family project, with father and the older boys sawing the plywood and fitting the frames. The tiniest tot can watch for colored glass bottles to help make a friendly clown, a lovable teddy bear, or a panting puppy. A strutting red rooster of undetermined breed seemed just right for a provincial room. When he was duplicated in shades of cobalt blue and kelly green, he was as modern as tomorrow's weather forecast. A huge eagle with his wings spread has been a repeat best seller. Colored slides are taken of each picture when it is finished. These serve as a pattern for duplicate orders. (continued on page 238) 202 Parleys Sixth Ward Country Fair Bazaar VaLora M. Anderson The success of this bazaar was due to the cooperation and all-out effort of the sisters of Parleys Sixth Ward — newly organized from parts of two other wards only six weeks prior to the bazaar. (Another ward in Parleys Stake lent the booths to this ward.) The willingness of the sisters to serve brought about a closeness and spiritual unity that welded together the two groups of our new ward, and was, we felt, a blessing to our newly organized Relief Society. The following list of sales indicates the popularity of various items: Candy Booth................2222222-22----0-------- $ 345.00 Chili and Hot Dogs........................... 45.00 Hem.......... 53.00 a n, 47.00 Soft Drinks —.._00.2.0.2 220i 45.38 Pigga Pies......... Ee 59.50 Desserts.....00.2..22...2. Ceceeeeceeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeee 46.80 Bakery........0...22222221..0122-22eeeeeeeeeeeeee eee 38.90 FRO@G@OAN — oo... Eee 1,420.00 TOTAL $ 2,100.58 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL CLOTHING AND ITEMS FOR CHILDREN The curved booths, with pink and white canopies, display a variety of items. On the wall at the extreme right are two children's red and white striped pajamas with night caps. To the left of these pajamas are several muumuus and handmade aprons. On the counter are displayed a tree of nylon scouring pads for bathrooms, handmade and hand-decorated bedroom sets for dolls, together with mattress, sheets, bedspreads and pillows. There were twelve sets of these sold at $15 for each set, and many more could have been sold. On the floor to the right is an old-fashioned metal tub, painted black with a bright design. This is perfect as a picnic container. Filled with ice, it will keep soda pop and watermelon cold. Several old-fashioned milk stools and a butter tub, decorated in Pennsylvania Dutch designs, are on the floor in front of the table. At the extreme right is a handmade doll for a child's bed. 205 THE CANDY BOOTH Mary Riley, Parleys Sixth Ward Relief Society President, shows a handpainted bucket of pink popcorn balls. In this colorful booth, trimmed with candy-striped chintz and scalloped in white fringe, stands a green symbolic pine tree, with three sets of shelves. On these shelves, and on the booth table, are candy containers of many different sizes and shapes, displaying the attractively arranged candies. There are many delicious varieties — Mint Puffs, Chocolate Fudge, Virginia Caramels, Pecan Rolls, Peanut Brittle, and assorted Chocolates. Hanging from the poles, are decorated suckers for the children. All this candy was handmade by the Relief Society sisters. 206 The Relief Society room and the ward cultural hall were the scene of Parleys Country Fair. 207 1. CHRISTMAS BOOTH The colorful Christmas items are attractively displayed in the Relief Society room. On the walls are several sheer aprons. To their right are children's prayer reminders. On the red streamer are tied white buttons and a written poem which says, "Every night when your prayers are said, take off a button and hop in bed." At the right, on the table, is a wooden cookie tree which can be used as a tray. Two butter tubs of different sizes, painted in Pennsylvania Dutch, catch the eye. These may be used for toys, or sewing containers. In the smaller tub are large Santa pencils. Between the tubs are green and gold turtle pillows, with a music box inside of each one. To the extreme left is a tree filled with finger puppets and Santa doorknob holders. The Advent calendar on the front of the tablecloth is made of burlap with many colored pockets. In each pocket is a trim-the-tree gift, to be pinned on the Christmas tree each night. In front of the table, on a stool, is a sewing tree. To the right of the stool stands an end table done in Pennsylvania Dutch design. Perhaps the folding Christmas tree, with its display of Christmas paper plates, Advent calendars, and hand-painted cups of crayons for the children attracts the attention as much as any part of the general display. 208 Planning a Successtul Bazaar Counselor Louise W. Madsen PLAN TO PREPARE CAREFULLY A very careful organization of all of the details of every aspect of the bazaar, is of first importance in planning a successful bazaar. The Relief Society presidency make the first decisions, based upon a consideration of what they hope to accomplish, what they have observed from experience of past bazaars, what they have learned from observing other bazaars, and what the sisters in their society would learn from their participation in bazaar preparation. The presidency oversees the entire proceedings, such as setting the date, delegating the responsibilities, and how to report procedures. A General Chairman is selected, a very efficient sister, with a talent for organization and the faculty of arousing enthusiastic cooperation from the members. Other chairmen will be needed to work under her direction. Chairmen for various activities, and for the groups of articles to be produced may be called into the work. The following suggested divisions may be helpful: a Sewing Chairman in charge of certain articles to be sewed and helpful also in the purchase of materials; a Publicity Chairman, a Bake Sale Chairman, a Candy Booth Chairman, an Apron Chairman, a Quilting Chairman, a Toy Chairman, a Children's Clothing Chairman, a Dolls and Doll Clothes Chairman, a Household Linens Chairman, a Christmas Articles Chairman, a Dinner Chairman (if dinner is to be served), a Women's Booth Chairman, a Men's Booth Chairman, and as many others as it is decided will be needed. These chairmen would form the bazaar committee. The committee plans to use every available sister in some capacity, so that all will lend support and have a personal interest in the success of the bazaar. PLAN A PRETTY THEME The most attractive bazaars are planned around a theme or a plan of decoration which extends to all booths and unifies the whole procedure. There are Christmas Fairs, Harvest Fairs, Fall or Backto-School Round-Ups, Spring Festivals, to mention only a few. 209 MARCH 1964 PLAN TO PRODUCE SALEABLE ARTICLES The success of a bazaar is very largely determined by the quality, the quantity, the usefulness, the desirability, the beauty, the unusualness, the workmanship, and the attractiveness of articles for sale. A wise presidency has a record of the items found to be bestsellers in previous bazaars. The same articles, somewhat redesigned, usually sell well again. Plan to prevent leftovers by a careful screening of samples of all proposed articles. Have the general committee assist in judging the worth of each before making more. Find some items that cost nothing and bring a clear profit, such as house plants propagated by the sisters in a long-range plan. "White elephants," old jewelry, old hats, and such things are also profitable. An "assembly line" technique is often a great time saver. Many articles can be produced in one work meeting with this procedure. PLAN TO PLEASE YOUR PATRONS There are many ways to make a bazaar a very pleasurable experience. One is, of course, the beauty and attractiveness of the displays. There are women in every ward with artistic ability, color sense, and originality who could create charming backgrounds and place articles effectively. If you expect your patrons to buy their dinner, keep their comfort in mind. How much better it is to have tables set up and decorated in your theme style, even if food is procured from booths set up around the hall, than to have people stand in long lines waiting to be handed a paper plate through the kitchen window. It is difficult for parents of young children to feed their families this way. Men usually dislike such procedures. Elderly people feel unsure in such a situation. Use your best and most charming sales ladies! Ask them to demonstrate and point out the quality of items. PLAN TO PRICE ARTICLES WISELY A small pricing committee is often used for this important job. Pricing is difficult and takes time and wisdom. Two things to be considered are the amount of material in the article and the amount and quality of the work. The ability of the people in the area to pay is a prime consideration also. Articles underpriced are profit-losers; articles overpriced are a deterrent to sales. There should be many articles in the low price range, from 25¢ to $2.00. Price tags should be attached to every item. Don't depend on the memory of the sales lady. Cater to the browsing instinct of customers. 210 PLANNING A SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR PLAN TO PUBLICIZE WIDELY, INVITINGLY We live in a publicity age. It is a wise chairman who will use all of the publicity ideas from every source available; posters, window displays, letters, individual post cards, printed fliers, radio, television, telephone, newspaper, and personal contact. A personal invitation, interestingly worded and illustrated, helps in attracting attendance and puts the date, time, and place in written form for easy remembrance. With all of this careful planning your bazaar will be successful! The following invitation was used by Parleys Sixth Ward. Cos a YOUR FAMILY WILL THINK YOU'RE A DEAR! -- AND you'uL Fino You're 'DOUGH' AHEAD IF you BRING THEM ALL TO THE © WonvERFUL WaRD BAZAAR FOR DINNER ~-— 6 Poles FRIDAY NovemBer 15. A YOU'VE NEVER 'HERD' oF sucH BUYS ON FOOD <= APPEALING TO EVERY APPETITE -- AND IF you're A BARGAIN 'HUNTER', AIM TO BE THERE! BESIDES THE YUMMY FOOD (AND NO (| pISMES To 00) THE RELIEF SociETY HAS PREPARED FABULOUS NE GANDY, COOKIES, HANDIWORK —-~ EVERYTHING FOR YOUR ASN: CurtSTMAS SHOPPING. AND THAT'S NOT ALL! THE GREAT Fitm, "Winoows OF Heaven', PRODUCED BY THE CuurcH, WILL BE \ SHOWN SEVERAL TIMES DURING THE EVENING. THis INSPT RATIONAL Yi FILM PORTRAYS THE DIVINE GUIDANCE oF LORENZO Snow iN St. I} GEORGE. BE A DEAR! Bring Your toog' AND HAVE A LOT oF ramicy 'FAWN! ¢! 1 tbsp. Gelatin % c. Cold water YB c. Powdered sugar P g Soak gelatin in cold water. Dissolve in scalded cream and strain. Add sugar and vanilla. Set bowl in cold water and stir until thick. Fold in whipping cream. > CHARLOTTE RUSSE ae + Ingrid W. Olsen V3 «. Scalded table cream 6 ladyfingers whipped cream for garnishing Ya c. Whipping cream 1% tsp. Vanilla Line another bowl with ladyfingers and pour the mixture into the lined bowl. Top with whipped cream. Desserts That Please the Family Florence K. Gates CUSTARD 12 large egg yolks 12 tbsp. Sugar 2 tsp. Vanilla 6 c. Milk Y% tsp. Salt nutmeg Add sugar and salt to 5% c. Milk. Mix well and scald; pour over egg yolks which have been slightly beaten with ¥% c. Of the milk. Add vanilla and strain into 2-quart casserole. Sprinkle top of custard with nutmeg. Set casserole in pan of hot water and bake at 350° until firm—about 45 to 55 minutes. (Place on middle rack of oven so water in pan will not boil.) Smaller amounts can be made by using basic recipe: Yc. Milk 1 egg yolk vanilla 1 tbsp. Sugar spk. Salt nutmeg Follow directions above. ANGEL FOOD CAKE 12 large egg whites (1% to 2 c.) lc. Plus 2 tbsp. Sifted cake flour 212 1% ¢. Sugar % tsp. Salt 1% tsp. Cream of tartar 1 tsp. Vanilla or 4% tsp. Lemon extract % tsp. Almond extract Sift ¥2 c. Of the sugar and flour 4 times. Add salt to egg whites and whip until frothy; add cream of tartar and continue whipping; add extract and 1 ¢. Of sugar gradually. Whip until whites are stiff but not dry, and will stand in peaks. Fold in flour and sugar mixture carefully. Pour into large ungreased angel food cake pan and place in oven on center rack. Bake 35 minutes at 350° in preheated oven. Take from oven and invert pan until cold before removing. ORANGE ICING 3 c. Powdered sugar 4 tbsp. Butter 1 egg yolk dash of salt 1 tbsp. Grated lemon rind tbsp. Grated orange rind tbsp. Orange juice tsp. Lemon juice — — Cream butter, sugar, salt. Add egg yolk and other ingredients and whip until smooth and fluffy. (For a more elegant cake frost with 7- minute icing and coconut.) Se C 0) i] (] when she had thought she was just h too busy to be bothered with him. Sh Blanche M was when he showed the baked Hollingsworth Later, when She roused herself, she remembered that She had Planned to scrub and wax the floors looked the floors Over. No one is HELEN Hurley was making cook. Here to track mud or dirt in. T in tack mud Mm.... It had been the Tabbit, the chicken, and the "Mama, Mama, do you know gingerbread man. These were the what?" he began excitedly. Ones Bobby liked to use when he "Bobby," she scolded. "How helped with the Cookies, but, she many times must I tel] you not to thought, it would look silly for me slam that screen door? And you've to make anima] cookies for just John tracked mud all Over my clean and me. Floor." With a deep sigh, she put them For the first time she noticed his back in the drawer and cut the clothes, and continued in 4 tone of Bobby had always been on hand been doing to &et your clothes so else he was doing, he would come shirt." Tunning at cookie baking time. Tt wasn't until] then that she S it time to cut them out, noticed his face. He looked 50 ama?" he would ask a dozen times crestfallen, and there was a hurt exduring the Process. "Can | Put the pression in his eyes, Taisin eyes in now?" In a subdued voice she then asked, ith regret in her heart and BeAr, "What, was it you wanted to tell to tears, she Temembered the times me?" 213 MARCH 1964 Although he told her about the bird building a nest in the tree by the garage, and that he had to crawl on a ledge to see better, the joy of sharing his secret with her had been ruined by her words. Almost as if her mother were in the room and repeating the words again, she heard her say, "You know, Helen, a mud-tracked floor can be wiped clean again. A torn shirt can be mended, but it isn't easy to put the joy back on the face of a child, or take the hurt look out of his eyes when harsh words have been spoken." How right her mother had been. Why, oh, why was I always so quick to scold him? She thought. 'The mud on the floor really didn't matter compared to the experience he had had in watching the bird gather string, leaves, twigs, and scraps of cloth and painstakingly carry each piece to the tree to make her nest. In his haste to get on the ledge before the bird returned from one of her trips, he had torn his shirt. She recalled how excited and how anxious he had been to share his experience with her, then she had spoiled it all by her hastily spoken words. If only a mother could always have a second chance to right things, to do better, to be more patient. She would have to get hold of herself, too, she thought, before John got home. As she moved the playbox in Bobby's room to start the vacuuming, a blue canvas shoe fell out. Although Bobby had outgrown the shoes, for some reason he had insisted on keeping them. 214 Grandfather Parker had made the box for him and had painted it a bright red. Because Bobby liked his grandfather's tool box so well, the playbox had been made as nearly like the tool box as possible — even to the lock and key that seemed to fascinate Bobby. "Now, Bobby," grandfather had said when he brought the box to him one week end, "you can keep all your toys in this box. Your room will look neat and clean, if you put the toys back in the box after you get through playing with them. How do you think my saws and hammers would look if I left them out of the toolbox? And another thing, I'd never know where to find them when I needed them for a job." Ar first Bobby had remembered every night to put all the toys in the box but, as the newness wore away, he sometimes forgot. She had even scolded him for that, Helen remembered, forgetting that he was just a little boy without a grownup's sense of responsibility. Now, as she stood holding the shoe in her hand, she noticed that the shoelace was missing. Shoelaces.... How many times a day had Bobby come running in the house saying, "Mama, do you know what?" And her answer had usually been, and with a lump in her throat she remembered saying, "Bobby, will you please tie up those shoelaces? You are forever tripping over them." Although he stopped telling the story he had been so excited about and patiently stooped to tie his shoe- laces, by the time he 'had finished, the smile had left his face, the shining light had left his eyes, and the excitement had faded from his voice, when he told the important bit of news. With her eyes full of fresh tears, Helen put the shoe back in the playbox. Later, when she was peeling potatoes in preparation for dinner, she heard a car come in the driveway. Surely it wasn't John already. She hurried to the window to see. It was her parents. They hadn't planned to come until Saturday, and it was only Wednesday. Now, she thought, I wonder what is wrong, and she had a moment of panic. Nothing seemed to be wrong, because they were both smiling. Her father brought the car to a stop near the kitchen door. Between her parents, sitting tall in the seat and grinning from ear to ear, was Bobby. He looked different, and it took Helen a few seconds to figure out why he looked different — and then she knew! He had lost his two front teeth. They had been loose when he left with his grandparents for a two weeks' visit with them on their farm. Helen was so anxious to get to Bobby that she was startled when She heard the screen door slam behind her as she ran from the house. Bobby, with that unruly lock of hair that stuck straight up in the air in spite of many combings and water, grinned a toothless smile at his mother and then stumbled over his grandmother's feet in his haste to get to her. As he started toward her he tripped and nearly fell over his untied shoelaces. -SECOND CHANCE Habit was strong, and Helen caught herself almost saying, "Bobby, will you please tie your shoelaces?" But she checked her words in time. All out of breath with the excitement and importance of it all, Bobby said, "Mama, do you know what?" And then he paused for the magic words from her. "No, what?" "T rode the pony all by myself. Grandpa let me. I found a nest of baby kittens, and they were so little they' didn't even have their eyes open. And that banty hen, she has ten chickens. If I hold my hand like this," and he cupped his hand, "they fit in just right, and they are so little and fluffy and cute." Helen's mother was trying to catch her eye to explain a few things. Over Bobby's head she was saying in snatches of conversation, "|.. Came a few days earlier — a little homesick we thought — he's young — first time away for so long — did very well, we thought...." Bobby had finished his recital and then shouted, "Daddy!" Sure enough, John was just turning the corner. Helen cried in dismay, "The dinner — I haven't even put the potatoes on." 'The two women hurtied into the house. Grandpa and Bobby stood in the driveway waiting for John, and Helen heard Bobby say, "Daddy, do you know what?" She stood by the window just a second longer, looking at the three of them. Yes, Helen thought, I am one of the fortunate ones. I have a second chance. 215 What does your a SPEECH | reveal? | "= Myrtle Henderson, BS. Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College Sux shore done a good job on my hair!" How often we have heard such glaring mistakes! The one who makes them is saying that she is a careless shoe. How much better to have said, 'She surely did a good job on my hair" or better, "She surely did my hair well." Some grammatical errors ae more common in specific localities, and others are more universal, but all gtammatical mistakes exemplify misunderof k seen and did and done. The verbs seen and done are parts of teams and work in double harness with their helpers have, has, or had. Saw and did can work alone. Here is 4 chart which, if studied carefully and used for frequent reference, will Prove helpful. Correct Incorrect I saw it myself, I seen it myself. She saw the show. She seen the show. They saw the girl. They seen the girl. I have seen the violet show. I have saw the violet show. They had seen the hole before the They had saw the hole before the boy fell in. Boy fell in. I did the washing, I done the washing. She did the dishes. She done the dishes. They have done jt many times, They have did it many times, 216 1. It is for ys Latter-day Saints to Temember the Sabbath Day. Sis the object of the Preposition for Never ay, "TE 9 ter We," Subject, Us is the object of the Pleposition by. Mormons jg simply a noun used in 4PPOSition to ys. 3. This message applies to you and me. You and me are objects of the Preposition to. Never use "to you and J," what is Wrong? Of course! Him and me are both in the objective Case and Should not be used as Subjects of the Sentence, "tH, and I will do the job," ct, WE often get a Scrambling of Pronouns and Cases by saying, "I and her helped the old lady," 7 In the nominative case and her in the objective _ both used as the Subject of the verb helped. Instead of "Dery" ge the Single Nominative form "she." 7 Indicates the speaker and should be placed Wo other Pronouns which otten give trouble are the nominative and objective forms of the Interrogatives Who and whom. Who should be used as the Subject of the verb because it is in the nominative case. Whom 1. Who was there? 2. Whom dig you see? 217 MARCH 1964 In the first sentence who is the subject ofthe verb was, but in the second sentence, you is the subject of the verb did see, and whom is the object of the verb did see. That will be clear if we change the sentence around and say, "You did see whom?" Many people have difficulty in discovering the word which is the subject of a sentence when the subject is modified by a prepositional phrase. It is well to remember that the verb goes with the subject and is not supposed to be concerned with the prepositional phrase. The subjects are italicized and singular. Correct Incorrect The package of papers was lost. The package of papers were lost. One of the boys was tate. One of the boys were late. Each of the flowers was in full Each of the flowers were in full bloom. Bloom. The collection of rocks was lost. The collection of rocks were lost. There are college graduates whose childhood training in incorrect grammar still remains to plague them. 'They may know the rules, but years of incorrect usage cause wrong words to slip out before there is time to think. Repetition of the correct grammar, over and over, until it is fixed in the mind and rolls off the tongue without thinking, is the best way to overcome daily errors in speech. If parents would take care to use correct English at home, they would simplify their children's problem in learning grammar at school and at home. It can be done. I was thrilled to hear one evening a little threeyear-old say to his mother, "To whom did you give it, mamma?" Both parents were careful to use correct English, and expected it of their children. Fawn at the Pool Thelma J. Lund Quiet brown eyes reflect the pool of shadow-brown water surfaced with cool lily blossoms and leaves afloat— serene and silent, dappled, remote. Gentle brown eyes reflect the trust; that shimmering wraith, an image in rust, oe JY will suddenly vanish from the brink of the shadow-brown pool when she wades to drink. Gast Your breag upon the waters Olive Sharp given a smal] Teward. I am sure the things we commit to memory, while young, stay with ys all of our lives, and that is why good deeds should be stamped on our children's memories, Now that I am eighty years old, the blessings I am finding from several sources are coming back to me. Wild country, but | was afraid that | was too old, and that | might cause them, and myself trouble, so | did not go. Our Chapel Margaret B. Shomaker Our chapel is the strength of yesterday, _ poy The experience of today, and a = The trust for tomorrow. ' t is our edifice of the Present en>s, = For the future— | a A beatitude to man... | A covenant with God. A 219 apter 2 Understanding cer. Rom Synopsis: While Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, are encamped at Winter Quarters awaiting the departure of the wagon train for the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, Selena's fiancé dies, and is buried there. Selena cannot be comforted, although Josiah Blodgett, a captain of ten, and Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, try to help them. THERE were many dances on the plains before the wagon train came to the mountains. Often Lon sat beside the girls as they watched the dancing. Sometimes he and Belle joined the dancers. 220 Belle was untiring where a dance was concerned and eagerly accepted his invitations to dance. Lon developed a great admiration for Belle, finding as he did, that she did not know what it meant to complain. Her good humor saved many situations on the long, tiresome journey. He began to realize what an asset a wife like Belle would be to a man on the frontier and found himself unable to understand the strength of his feelings toward Selena, since she continued to give him no encouragement what- soever. In fact, quite the contrary. Selena often excused herself when he appeared, going to the wagon and leaving him and Belle alone. Once Belle chided her for her abruptness toward him. "How do you think Lon feels, Selena, if every time he comes near our wagon, you get up and leave?" "Lon?" asked Selena, and it was plain that the thought had never concerned her. '"How do I know how he feels, and why should I care? Who, in this whole wagon train, cares how I feel?" "We all do, Selena," said Belle gently. "Everyone is concerned." "So concerned that they sing and dance every night. They don't bother to wonder what it does to anyone else." "Of course they do, Selena. But you can't expect this entire camp to mourn every step of the way for...." "Don't you mention his name!"' flared Selena. "You never liked him! Though why you didn't, I've never been able to understand. I don't think you could explain, yourself, what you had against him." Belle opened her mouth to answer, then she stopped. There was no good in adding to the burden her sister was already carrying. She could say nothing that would do any good now, in fact it could not even be proved, and might cause a serious rift between the two of them. THE only favor Selena accepted from Lon during the long journey YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING was his offer to let her ride his horse. She loved horses, any horse. It had been a great disappointment to her when she had learned that Belle had obtained a pair of oxen to pull their wagon. Riding the horse proved to be a welcome change, and _ several times during an afternoon she rode behind the wagon while Belle and Lon sat together on the wagon seat. "It's good to be traveling west with Josiah," said Lon upon one of these occasions. "We've covered a lot of territory together. Had a right good homestead in Missouri. Best place we ever had. Hearing the gospel really changed our lives. "It was a funny thing, too. I knew it was true right off. Josiah took a bit of convincing. He was right in there with the mob for awhile. Right up until Far West. That was more than he could take. "There's not a kinder person to be found than Josiah. Oh, I admit he may have a bit of prejudice against women in general, but he's still one of the finest men I have ever known. He isn't a man to use a lot of words, but something must have happened to turn him against the whole female sex." Lon jumped to the ground as they approached a deep waddy. He directed the oxen expertly to one side and then the other. The wagon swayed but stayed upright as it came back to a more level piece of land. "Josiah taught me that," he 221 MARCH 1964 said, as he took his place back on the seat beside Belle. "He's a good man with a wagon and can get more miles out of a team of horses in a day than anyone I have ever seen." Belle remembered this when, after a particularly rainy time, Lon rode back to report that their wagon was stuck. "'What we need are your oxen," Lon stated. Belle closed her lips and jumped to the ground to unloose the team from her own wagon. "You can take them, of course. But I insist on driving them to get your load going again." Belle led her oxen toward the wagon ahead. Lon mounted his horse and followed a short distance behind, possibly hoping to avoid the explosion he felt was imminent. "Your oxen! Of all the teams in the wagon train why in thunder did Lon go for yours?" Josiah demanded. "It's obvious, isn't it?" answered Belle. 'Probably because my oxen are in better condition than any other animals on the trip. You could have kept your horses up better if you had bothered to pull them a little extra grass when the picking in camp proved to be a little sparse," said Belle. "Pull grass for them! Nobody but a female would think of anything like that. Should I chew it for them, too?" "If you like," said Belle amiably. "The poor things probably don't get it chewed up as well as an ox does, since they don't 222 chew their cud. You might be able to help quite a lot that way." JOSIAH snorted. Lon rode up and drew his horse to a stop. "I'm not having any female pull our outfit out of the mud, Lon. I'll stay here all summer first." Lon was feeling the humor of the situation, and his face twitched but he did not smile. "T'll drive old Buck and Barney, Belle. And I promise not to touch them with a whip. How about it?" "Of course, Lon. I'll take your horse and wait back at my wagon. I guess you'll have to pull him out, though I wouldn't mind a bit if he did just what he said —stayed here stuck in the mud all summer." Belle had only reached her own wagon when she turned to see Lon coming on the run. "You'll have to drive them, Belle. They won't budge for me. I think they are waiting for the sound of your voice. Josiah's trying now, but I don't expect him to have much luck." "Josiah! Lon, you promised "I know I did, Belle, but I couldn't make them move and you know how he is with animals. He thought maybe he could persuade them." "A couple of balky cows, if I ever saw any," cried Josiah as they ran up. "That's all they are. I wouldn't have a pair of oxen. You couldn't give them to me. I should think you'd have got a team of good horses before startyo? ing out on a journey like this," "You did," said Belle calmly, "and look at the condition they're in. You might be glad some of us didn't have enough money to buy horses, before you get to the Valley." Belle patted the animals, Speaking softly to them all the while, then, "Haw!" she cried, "Haw!" The oxen swung a little to the left. The chain tightened and the wagon rolled forward slowly, surely out of the mud onto firm ground. JoOsIAH stood by in amazement, his mouth opened, a strange, new look of admiration in his eyes. Lon, watching, caught the look at once. He was equally as surprised as Josiah; Lon to see what was happening to his friend, and Josiah, to see a woman handle a team of oxen with such skill. "Come on, Josiah," said Lon. "The least you can do now is to help the lady put the oxen back on her own outfit. Get the chain unfastened."' Josiah came to with a start, only to see that Belle had already removed the pin and was carrying the chain as She turned the oxen toward the rear of the - train. "T can drive back just as easily ' as forward," she said. After she had gone a few steps ' She turned and looked over her ' Shoulder. "Sometimes it happens that ' Women aren't too much of a drag on a trip like this." he sarcasm was wasted on Josiah. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "Lon!" he cried. "Did you see that? Did you see what she did?" "Easy, Josiah, easy," said Lon. "That's a female you're talking about." "But she doesn't act like a female. Why, she drove those oxen just like a man!" Lon decided to let things rest, realizing that in Josiah's present state of mind, it was useless to remind him that neither of the two men present had been able to move the oxen one inch, WHENEVER the Scouts sent word back that Indians were in the nearby area Selena became almost petrified with fear. From the very beginning of the trip this was the thing she had dreaded most, more than the hot, Scorching sun, or the wet, sodden plodding through mud, or the constant tiredness from endless walking. "Belle!" protested Selena, after watching her sister walk among some of the red visitors who came, one day, into camp. "'How can you get near them? They're dirty. How do you know what disease you might pick up?" Belle laughed. "They interest me, Selena. Did you see their moccasins? I've never seen such beautiful bead work. How I would love to have a pair." "You mean you would actually wear them!" In camp meeting that night Lon gave orders to everyone in their fifty to treat the Indians kindly. "Our Church has little trouble 223 MARCH 1964 with them," he said, "and we don't want to give them any chance for action against us. They have traded with so many wagon trains passing through that you will find they have developed a taste for some of the white man's food, especially flour. While we can't spare much, in most instances just a little will satisfy them and prevent trouble. Use your best judgment in maintaining peaceful associations with them upon their occasional visits," A few days later another group of Indians came to the camp. Selena's heart beat fast as she saw Belle leading an Indian squaw toward their wagon. Where could she go? What could she do? She looked about the crowded interior of the wagon for somewhere to hide. Unper the bed! It was the only possibility. It was a good thing the situation had not been reversed, for, Belle could never have squeezed her large frame in out of sight among the boxes and bags stored there. There was not a breath of air moving and Selena felt she would suffocate before Belle found whatever she was after and her trading with the Indian woman was over. At last, when she was certain that Belle was alone, Selena crawled out. "Selena! Look at these moccasins! I've never wanted anything so much. Aren't they perfect?" Belle ran her fingers lightly over 224 the bright, beaded toes. Then she looked up at Selena whose eyes were on them as though they were something repulsive. "Stop blaming the Indians for the sickness at Winter Quarters. They live up to the best they know — better than most of us. You know what the scripture says about them. Here, let me read it to you." BELLE reached her Book of Mormon from under her pillow, turned quickly to Alma and read: For it is because of the traditions of their fathers that caused them to remain in their state of ignorance; therefore the Lord will be merciful unto them and prolong their existence in the land. And at some period of time they will be brought to believe in his word, and to know of the incorrectness of the -traditions of their fathers... Brie stopped, searching the passages for a moment. "That's true enough. Their existence has certainly been prolonged, and if the Lord is going to be merciful to them, it might prove to be a good idea if we show them a little mercy ourselves. That wasn't what I wanted to read to you, though.... Oh, yes. Here it is: Nevertheless I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable for them in the day of judgment than for you, if ye remain in your sins. "You see, Selena? For your own sake, you cannot afford this unreasonable fear of the Indians." Selena had no answer. She knew Belle spoke the truth, yet how could she make her understand? It had been a strange sickness that could take a strong man almost overnight in Winter Quarters. If it hadn't come from the Indians, it certainly seemed different from anything she had encountered before, and it had. Taken away her very reason for living. Later, when Selena returned to the wagon to get the kettle for the evening meal, Belle sat on the bed, her toes in one of the moccasins, and her face a mask of despair. This was a most unusual sight. Selena hurried to her sister's side. "Belle!" she cried. 'Whatever is the matter? Are you in pain?" "The moccasins!" moaned Belle. '""They're too little. I can hardly get my big toe in them." "Oh! Is that all! You gave me such a fright!" "Ts that all! Here I go and trade off some of our precious flour and my old wrapper as well, and all I get is a pair of moccasins that I can't even get on." Tuen Belle's face brightened as a thought came to her. "Selena! You could wear them. They might even be a little too big for you! Here. They're yours." Selena drew back. "I appreciate it, Belle. I know you mean it to be a kindness, but I couldn't take them, really." "You're being foolish, Selena. These are the most beautiful _ moccasins I have ever seen. Here. - Try them." "And so they are," said Lon, YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING coming up unexpectedly. "Let me see them. I might take you up on that." Laughing, he took the moccasins from Belle's outstretched hand. "Whose are they?" he asked as they looked at the fine piece of handwork. "Yours, if you want them," said Belle. "I traded for them, but I can't begin to wear them, and Selena won't even try. Do you think you could wear them, Lon?" "They look a little small for me, I'm afraid, though I'd like to have them, but I can't be selfish. I know someone who really needs these right now. Josiah." "Josiah! I'm not about to give these moccasins to him. He'd find something wrong with them to come and tell me about, if he had to wait until they wore out and then complain about that. No, I'll keep them myself first."' "His horse stepped on his toe last night, Belle. He can't get his boot on for a few days. He'd appreciate these. He's spent a lot of time among the Indians and has worn moccasins a lot. You could really help him out, Belle. Do it for the good of the wagon train, if not for Josiah. He can't help much in his stocking feet." Belle looked at the moccasins for a long moment. Then she handed them to Lon. "Here they are, Lon. He can have them, but I'm not taking them to him," said Belle. "That's another thing," said Lon, raising his hand against 225 MARCH 1964 taking the moccasins. "If I go back to our camp with these, he'll think I talked you out of them. I'd rather you took them, if not you, then Selena." SELENA looked from one to the other. There was no way out. She would not let Lon know how she dreaded picking them up. Belle knew, of course, and Selena saw a look of admiration on her sister's face as she took the moccasins from her. Lon and Josiah's wagon was about two-thirds of the way around the circle from theirs. Selena did not cut through the center where the animals were grazing, but walked around the outside of the ring of wagons. She found Josiah seated on the wagon tongue soaking his foot in a bucket of hot water. "T'm sorry to hear about your foot," said Selena, as she came near. "My own fault," said Josiah. "My off horse always paws with his front feet when I hook him up. I should have had sense enough to get out of the way." "TI brought you these moccasins," said Selena, holding them out to him. "They'll be much softer than your boot until your foot is better." "Lon sent you with these, didn't he? He's always trying to take care of me. Well, you can tell him....." "No," interrupted Selena. 'Not Lon. My sister, Belle." "Belle!" Josiah was on his feet. The bucket of water went over. 226 Selena managed to get away just in time to avoid its pouring over her shoes. For the moment his sore foot was forgotten. "You really mean it? Belle sent these moccasins?" "She did," said the bewildered Selena, "but why all the excitement? What's so important about her sending them?" "Maybe nothing. Maybe everything. Selena, hurry along back and if you see Lon, tell him I'd like to see him right suddenlike." "He's acting sort of crazy," she told Lon as she returned to her own camp. "You'd better go right away." Lon was off at a run. Supposing the injured foot had turned to blood poisoning. Suppose.... But he needn't have worried. When he reached his own wagon, Josiah was already wearing the moccasins, shaving carefully as he squinted into a piece of broken mirror he had propped up against the side of the wagon. As he heard Lon's footsteps, Josiah turned to face him, one side of his face still unshaven. "Well!" said Lon, "why the middle of the week clean-up? What's going on?" "Lon!" cried Josiah. '"'Lon! Do you suppose she knows?" "Knows? Who? Knows what?" asked Lon. "Belle. Do you think she might have heard that among certain Indian tribes the squaw can choose her husband by sending a pair of moccasins to the man she decides to marry?" (To be continued) Charlotte (Lottie) Hammer Singley, Bountiful, Utah, finds much pleasure in oil painting. Her favorite subjects are mountains, such as the majestic ' Tetons of Wyoming (top, center), winter scenes, and autumn splendor in forest country. Shown in the photograph above are paintings of the Joseph Smith Home and the Sacred Grove. Mrs. Singley, a woman of many talents, is also a gifted musician, and has been a choir member in several wards and stakes, as well as a member of the Ogden Tabernacle Choir. Her poetry, short stories, and articles have appeared in Church and national publications. She is skilled in many kinds: of handwork — knitting, embroidery, crocheting. With her husband, she has filled two missions — to the Cumorah Farm and the Joseph Smith home. In Relief Society work she has been a member of stake boards and ward presi- | dencies and has been class leader in theology and literature, and discussion | leader at work meeting, and has been a visiting teacher for many years. Temple work and genealogical research are very dear to her, and she is devoted to her five children and seventeen grandchildren. 227 Sakeees 2 Canadian Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music For Mission-Wide Annual Convention, September 14, 1963 Seated at the left, front row, left to right: First Counselor Elva M. Adamson; President Caroline L. Pitcher; Second Counselor Jane Morrow. Second row, center, in dark dress: Donna Harker, director of the chorus; at the right, fifth row: Sharon Holmes, accompanist. Sister Pitcher reports: "Eighty-six Singing Mothers comprised the chorus, rendering 'Why Singing Mothers Sing' and 'How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings.' The theme of the convention — 'The Latter-day Saint Home Has Its Pattern in the Heavens' — was presented by Sister Pitcher. 'As a Light Shining' — reflecting the true spirit of visiting teaching — 'Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do' — was presented by the London District sisters with accompanying musical numbers beautifully rendered. "Recognition was given to sisters achieving 100% visiting teaching and honorable mention to other deserving sisters. A spirit of love and good fellowship prevailed throughout the day. 'Every sister a missionary' was again particularly stressed. There was an outstanding display of handicraft from each of the five districts. Many of the sisters' first efforts at quilting were in evidence. Following a delicious luncheon, departmental sessions convened. Over two hundred were in attendance, some traveling as far as 600 miles to attend. All five of the district presidents and a majority of the branch presidents gave the sisters their support in the venture." 228 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. San Antonio (Texas) Stake Relief Society Visiting Teachers Honored At Convention, June 15, 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Angela Elizondo; Otilia Zeigler; Lucia Bremer; Margarita Favella; Maria Vasquez. Back row, standing, left to right: Hattie Bitter; Fannie Ekstrom; Thilla Greathouse; Louise Turley; Carmen Martinez. Kathryn K. Willis, former President, San Antonio Stake Relief Society, reports that there was an excellent attendance at the convention and a greater interest in visiting teaching was aroused. "Sister Lucia Bremer was especially honored as a member of the first Relief Society in San Antonio. The first meeting of the society there was held in her home. Sister Bremer and the other sisters in the picture were presented with a beautiful carnation corsage by Gladys Bremer, stake Relief Society board member, for their faithful teaching for over twenty. Years. Each visiting teacher present received a 'Pattern for Living' made by the stake board members. "The play 'May We Come In?' written by Ivy Huish Jones, was presented in a very instructive and entertaining manner. The play depicted the importance of visiting teaching and the need of having love in our hearts when we make our visits. Talks were given by three of the sisters on various phases of visiting teaching. A social hour and refreshments were enjoyed by all." Delpha Jeffers is the new president of San Antonio Stake Relief Society. 229 MARCH 1964 Pasadena Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Nell Ellsworth, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of Pasadena Stake have for their chorister Ovena Mayo, and the accompanists are Della Cox, at the piano, and Lydia Smith, at the organ. This group sings regularly for two stake conferences a year, at special leadership meetings, and in wards on special occasions." Irish Mission Relief Society Enjoys Unified Mission Bazaar June 15, 1963 Sandra M. Covey, President, Irish Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society women representing twenty branches in Ireland sponsored a unified mission bazaar at Redhill, the beautiful mission home in Belfast. The fete was graciously opened by Mr. Leslie Stuart, official royal photographer for Northern Ireland. A fancy dress parade for the children, a vocal and instrumental quartet, a portrait stall featuring Mr. Charles Sinclair, a local cartoonist; and boat rides on Redhill Lake were especially popular. A balloon man clown and lovely hankie girl delighted the children, and families tested skill and luck in the various game booths. Items on sale, the results of many months of work, were displayed in gaily decorated booths and stalls, including handicrafts, children's toys, fish pond, wonderful home bakery, flower and vegetable stall, 'white elephant," apron, children's clothing, homemade sweets, cosmetics, refreshments, and visual aids for families and teachers. "Each Relief Society had heavy assignments and solicited help from inactive and nonmember women. Some organizations doubled their membership, and many women joined the Church. We were thrilled with the $1,000 raised, though the fete was closed early by heavy rain. Of special interest was a seventy-five page bazaar idea and pattern book which we had printed, containing hundreds of patterns and ideas. These were sold to Relief Societies in Europe and women's clubs in Ireland." Ashley Stake (Utah) Closing Social and Inter-Faith Barbecue Dinner May 1963 Mazie S. Christensen, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports this unusually successful occasion: "The Ashley Stake Relief Society held a closing social in the form of an inter-faith barbecue dinner, served on the patio of the Ashley-Uintah Stake center. The picture shows members of the stake board, assisted by Bishop Ben Lindsay, as they barbecue chicken for the affair. An interesting display of articles made by Relief Society members during the past year was exhibited in the recreation room." 230 MARCH 1964 North Sanpete Stake (Utah), Mount Pleasant First Ward Annual Day March 18, 1963 Left to right: Lavon McArthur, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth Fowles, Second Counselor; Nellie McAllister, President; Elnora Larsen, First Counselor. Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Stake -Relief Society, reports: "The Mount Pleasant First Ward Relief Society celebrated the founding of the organization by having a luncheon and program with an international theme. At one end of the hall a large map of the worldwas placed in the middle of flags representing various countries, and ribbons of the Relief Society colors indicated the location of the temples, and pictures of the temples were placed at one end of the ribbons. "The last verse of the song 'Come Unto Jesus' was printed on a large placard and placed at one side. These decorations tied in with the decorations used on the tables. A collection of dolls, six to twelve inches high, from many countries, along with flags representing the different nations, were used, centered by a globe of the world, with blue and gold ribbon reaching out in many directions. Gumdrops were used to hold small flags from many countries. These flags matched flags used on the invitations, which were taken to all. The sisters of the ward. They were asked to bring their invitations for use in finding their seats. "The menu also carried out the same theme: Swiss ham Sanpete carrots English rolls Scalloped Irish potatoes Chinese cabbage with French dressing Hawaiian dessert "The program also followed the theme: Xylophone solo — medley of Scotch music Cello solo — Hawaiian music Swiss yodeling Danish song (in Danish) Origin and stories about St. Patrick's Day by a sister from Ireland Vocal solo — 'God Bless America' "The history of the ward Relief Society, from the time of its beginning in 1961, was related. Sixty sisters were present." Uruguayan Mission, Carrasco Branch Pioneer Day Celebration, 1963 Helen Fyans, President, Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, reports that the unique "Pioneer Day" celebration held in the Carrasco Branch was typical of many similar celebrations held throughout the mission: "Organized under the direction of the Relief Society of each branch, the celebrations included a presentation of slides and narration about the Latter-day Saint pioneers, typical music, and square dancing. Decorations included wagon wheels, handcarts, and a big fire. "In some areas the construction program was aided through the contribution of a 'Kilo' by each person attending the celebration. The 'Kilos' are used to sustain the Church building missionaries. The program was planned by the Relief Society Mission Board, headed by Sister Carmen C. De Galli. Other members of the board are Luz Oliva de Rodal, Maria Luisa DiPierro, Maria Elida Wins de Otero, and Alba Molinari LaBuonora. The celebrations attracted large attendance of both members and nonmembers." 232 Come unto Jesus from every nation, 1: __ From every land and isle. The sé MARCH 1964 Rarotongan Mission (Cook Islands), Avarua Branch Work Meeting August 13, 1963 Front row, left to right: Metua Jones; Tauri Taroro; Tuo Ngati; Pauline Mitchel. Back row, left to right: Alice Vahua; Della Howard; Ngametira Tuaputa; Inez S. Moody, President, Rarotongan Mission Relief Society; Rongo Kea; Ina Taroro; Rau Tai; Ngaupoko Papera; Teei Ngatokoa; Metua Kura. Sister Moody reports that the women in the picture are making Pareu skirts for the Polynesian Village opening at Laie. Around the table is a sample of the skirts. In the background are Taewaiwai quilts made by the sisters. "They have seventy-six skirts to make. It is quite a difficult, long process to prepare the Kiriau (grass), for they have to cut the young trees from the hills and take them to the beach, skin the outer layer of bark, and bury the limbs in the sea under heavy rocks, where the sea keeps them wet. They stay there for from five to ten days, then they are taken out of the water, and the 'inner bark is taken off. This is the bark they use for the skirts. It has to dry thoroughly for a day or two, then long strips are cut and tied onto heavier bark to make the skirt. It takes about twenty stalks to make one skirt. After the skirts are made, the seeds and beads and shells must be gathered and cleaned to decorate the waistbands of the skirts. If there is to be any coloring in the skirt, then the material must be dyed before the skirt is made. To make seventy-six is a long, tedious job." 234 Afton Brown Aprit means spring. Spring means house cleaning. So Tuesday of last week found me surveying MY attic storeroom with distaste. Nevertheless, the unpleasant task must be done, so I flew into it with forced vigor. The room had not been invaded for several years, and soon I was surrounded by 4 cloud of dust which aggravated my hay narrow end of a coffin-shaped box. Partially concealed under an ancient washstand. It was my father's old violin case. 'The pattle-scarred leather covering, its color obliterated by dust, was tattered and worn, and the wooden frame could be seen through a hole at the end. As I tenderly picked it up, dusted it off, and placed it on @ packing box, my cy filled with tears. 1 could hardly sce MY fingers as they fumbled with the lock, and only after several clumsy attempts was 1 able to open the case. 'There, rotected by a WOT, faded, red velvet wrapper, was ™Y father's violin, the treasured possession that had been onc of his great loves — second only to his family. The aged instrument showed signs of usage, but the golden luster of the wood was still evident; a luster created by many hours of careful polishing with a soft cloth held in strong put gentle hands. 'The same hands that could either capably rope 3 steer or soothe a fevered brow. The slight discoloration of the finish surrounding the graceful sound holes indicated antiquity. _Fout strings, three loosened and one still taut, were drawn from the frog over the slender plack ebony fingerboard. The strings were then fastened to the pees near the end of the neck, which was adorned by 4 handsome hand-carved scroll. As I lifted the instrument and plucked the untuned strings with my thumb, I could see the slight dullness of the fingerboard; a dullness caused by countless journeys of sensitive, though calloused, fingers UP and down the strings searching for the clear, swect, melodious tones pleasant to hear. Gay tunes, sad tuncs, ballads, 35> classics, J then ran my fingertips caressingly Ovet the worn chin rest. That had time and time again nestled a silken black beard; a beard which had framed a smiling mouth, en hanced a fine Grecian nose, and complemented two merry blue eyes. "Js it a Stradivarius?" you a, No, it is ie instrument fashioned from 4 piece of applewood by my grandfather for his son's eleventh birthday. "Oh, just a fiddle," is your comment. | would never hesitate to give honored credit for great violin making to the master from Cremona, but more love never existed than the love that went into the creation of this humble instrument. Then came the day when the violin was put away for the last time. It was the day the trembling rheumatic fingers had searched blindly and unsuccessfully for the clear true toncs of former, more youthful years. Over and over again, the campaign waged, but finally, with a sigh of defeat, the grand old man was forced to succum to the one enemy Over which he could gain no victory — time. 235 MARCH 1964 ee ee oe ee cee ees ee ee ee Gee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ce ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee re cree a ee i es es ee ee ee ee es ee ee ee BEAUTIFUL SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART WOMEN'S CHORUSES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD I GO..0 ww. Schumann.20 GOD IS LOVE..._................ Shelley.20 HEAVENS ARE TELLING..._Haydn.25 IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMMANDMENTS.... Madsen §.25 IN THY FORM......0000002. Madsen.20 LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY.............--------Stephens.20 LO, MY SHEPHERD! S DIVINE.. Haydn =.22 LORD'S PRAYER...............-.... Gates.20 LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE.......... Madsen.20 MY REDEEMER LIVES __.._... Gates.20 O DAY OF REST AND GLADNESS __...00.0....... Schumann.20 OMNIPOTENCE............. Schubert.20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY ————=S 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (J Money Enclosed Name Address City and State... [J On Approval [ Charge f 15 E. Ist South ~ Salt Lake City 11, Utah WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. MEXICO — MARCH and JUNE, 1964 EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII — MONTHLY TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Feather Grief Ida Elaine James Your shattered sphere made whole With a bit of glue, | played the goddess-role To little you. You with the simple goal Of toys mended, | cannot help but wonder Of the long days when, Small panic of tears and thunder Stilled — | can't restore again The heart asunder — Such joys ended. And no one sees my own tear shed For the hours, days, years That you may go uncomforted With undried tears Be |! Alive or dead. So if | hold you overlong While you strain away Recovering your April-song Forgetful in play, My feather-grief is for that day — My love-word said. I i i \ ' 4 i 1 \ 1 | i 1 ' Pathway Catherine B. Bowles We walk the path of life but once As we journey down the way; We do not pass this way again As we travel day by day. Shall we plant seeds of happiness Or strew the path with flowers And sow the seed of gratitude For rich blessings that are ours? Send a song along the highway, Push a stone from off the road, Make a beaten path for others, Help them carry a heavy load. If we have helped, in some small way, To give another a brighter day, Then life has not been lived in vain; Blessings will come back again. The fragrance of a life well spent Smooths the pathway we have trod That will bring us richest blessings In our pathway back to God. COLD MEDALLION A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). << 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. <> 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. Oe All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. Oo Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 237 MARCH 1964 Painting With Glass (Continued from page 202) Throughout the project, the interest of neighbors and friends has been aroused, and their curiosity has led them to the homes where the pictures were being assembled. The pleasant hours with new friends was an unexpected by-product. The heavy work of the project fell on a few, but there were many who enjoyed and benefited from this productive experience. The Happy Ending Such a personal feeling goes into each picture that the sisters regret parting with their creations! However, when a well-known Washington, D. C., Savings and Loan Company offered to display ten pictures in their attractive, busy Connecticut Avenue window, with spotlights on them at night, the "apron strings" were happily cut, and the sisters' "brain children" went on display, with prices ranging from $45 to $175. It is difficult to know which caused the most surprise, the $500 obtained from the immediate sales, or the bewilderment skeptical husbands registered when the pictures sold! This was one project where the makers didn't have to buy back their own productions. Currently, the same Loan Company has asked for more pictures, and they have arranged a display in three of their busy locations. One display is just two blocks from the White House. The inquiries about the pictures bring them sufficient business so that they do not charge a commission for selling. College Park Relief Society women had worked diligently to contribute to the building and furnishing of their new chapel, and for the room furnishings, kitchen equipment, and stainless steel service for 200. The money from the sale of the pictures gave the sisters the thrill of having cash for a luxury. It was invested in silver serving pieces for refreshment tables, including silver punch bowls and assorted sizes of silver trays. They wisely spent their money for luxuries only after the necessities and needs of the operating budget had been met. As with all creative work, glass picture-making requires time and thought. To the neophyte, it may be work, but with practice and experience it becomes a fascinating art — rewarding as a means of expression and in the creation of something lovely, unique, and of value in the home or on the market. The bonus surprise of attracting new friends to Relief Society is a priceless reward of love in action. 238 Exile Gilean Douglas And now | go from water — from the sound Which has caressed me through the nights and days. My feet will turn to distant, arid ways — And sometimes stand quite still on desert ground Because the wind through dusty palms has sighed Like sleepy water on an ebbing tide. Gratify that wistful yearning this April, and return for Conference Visitors - a visit to "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" love mr" ce Cream THE INDUSTRY'S SUPREME ACHIEVEMENT Closed Open until: Midnight 850 East 21st South St. Sundays. BEAUTIFUL LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL WORRY FREE HANDY HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC (New low fares) EUROPE 21 Day Excursion Tours (Save 30%) Now Booking for THE HOLY LAND including Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel Turkey, Greece and Italy (With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 4th) HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July '64 including World's Fair in New York MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. (Bonded) (Your Experienced. Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Street 328-3161 Salt Lake City "There is no substitute for experience" A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.....35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.....39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.....45 Over 1800 miles....87 600 to 1000 miles....54 Leave them at our conveniently focated uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. A> 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 239 - DURABLE Ciilhdly Cngratiletisy, | Brandenton, Florida Mrs. Eten King Lyman Ninety-eight 'KBA Norry Salt Lake » Uta Mrs, Saran MONs HILisreap Mrs Lena ASHB OLsEn L Mrs Minnig F. Lurz Purpy eton, Idah den Utah iy Mrs. Harriny LY Matin Pa Ninety-two Mrs. & OVARD Crasp Salt L ke Cit »U Mrs. Ip, M ALLEMAN TAYLOR aN Lake Cj ne Salt Lake City, U MRs. Sar WauLstroy ER Mrs. Hurpa ARFF Sauispury Salt La e City, Utah Thanks for These Caroline Eyring Miner into Mine with s ed a Surance that | a Self-laught r | trength; M forgiven r my blunders, » and loved; € hurts of Others, the sun is 80ne, 240 Ninety-nine Logandale, Nevada Ninety-five Salt Lake City, yp Ninety-three Mrs, Marir J RGENSEN CARLING She €Y, Idaho Mrs Mary | ARNEY Betrpp Osden, Utah Ninety-one Mrs, GRAcE PEckHam Batrs Mrs Neu R Ninety anno Dow Ie GanEY acrament, P California Miss Eten Park Tooele, Utah Salt Lake Cit » Utah Mrs. CAROLINE Brown ToLson Hartsville, South Carolina SATISFYING READING These choice volumes will inspire and comfort you — worthy additions to any home or ward library! 1. GUIDE TO A HAPPY MARRIAGE by Mark E. Petersen Elder Petersen's liberal use of true-life case illustrations provides helpful direction and insight for young people eeqtemip ia marriage. Expert counsel is given relating to such matters as—the dangers of early teenage dating, problems of early marriages, the importance sharing mutual interests, completing one's education before marriage, facin health problems, the significance of personality —— sex, and family attitudes, and aly finance. $2.95 z. LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Volume II by Roy W. Doxey An amazing and enlightening volume that is a worthy successor to the very poe Vol. I. Elder Doxey is Associate Professor of Religion and Chairman of the agement of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Religious Instruction at Brigham Young University. He Dottie Fascinating insight into latter-day prophecy. 1 ain $3.95 aad Ce T Deseret Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ISPER ESR DETTE TARR R RB R eee ee _ P Reenpenpueene Deseret Book Company, 44. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 94110 I would like to receive book(s) number ___...._..--_-... For which I enclose (check, cash, money order) the full cost $-..............22.22.20-.20202000-0--+! Residents of Utah add 342% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah - og eth; We surely never dreamed that in Nine Short Months this tragedy would come to us! GU aft bri a love and foresight to Provide this financia} Security for us. Sincerely, Mrs. Nn. A, Roberts BENEF ICIAL LIFE Aasivance Company From the Benefciat Life files Te st L, " neues; thought Virgil H. Smith, Pres, Only those Who have €xPerienced Such a Salt Lake City, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Volume 51 Number 4 April 1964 Special Short Story Issue . é on e a eet ie Sac — i € May I congratulate you on our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. 1 can hardly wait each month to get my copy — each one with such a beautiful cover. The lovely inspiring talks, stories, and poems, not to mention the wonderful lessons, are appreciated by me. Mrs. Tena V. Dorp Van der Ende Redondo Beach, California I want to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine and its guidance for the Relief Society program. I am sure our Father is pleased with the wonderful inspirational lessons and the uplift the whole program gives to the sisters. I am a young mother of four and I certainly look forward to Relief Society meeting. It really inspires me in my dealings with my husband and family. Mrs. Kaye Sims Seattle, Washington I just had to drop you a note and tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. It is a real inspiration. I was especially thrilled with the conclusion of Rosa Lee Lloyd's serial "Kiss of the Wind" (February 1964). It was such a sweet, inspiring story. I feel as if I had been to Hawaii. I look forward to more of Mrs. Lloyd's stories. I loved her serial about Alaska, too. Claire Farrer Salt Lake City, Utah I just had to sit down and tell you how much I enjoyed reading "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd. It was a wonderful story. The Magazine is a helpmeet in my life. Mrs. Carol Kemple North Las Vegas, Nevada ~ bom Mar VII Sy I simply must write and tell you how outstanding our little Magazine is. I love the color added to each page — it makes the Magazine even more beautiful. Each cover is a collector's item in itself. So thanks so much for a clean, wholesome, edifying Magazine — a true gem in our times. Nora O. Caldwell Corvallis, Montana What a wonderful story just concluded in the February issue of the Magazine, such a splendid picture of Hawaiian life ("Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd). I love the lesson material very much, and the recipes are delightful. Helen H. Stickler Salt Lake City, Utah Of all the contents of the February Magazine, I enjoyed the editorial most ('The Words That Women Write," by Vesta P. Crawford). It touched me where I live. The new serial ("Your Heart to Understanding," by Hazel M. Thomson) got off to a good start. The characterization of Belle is good, and the action moves in a straight line. The second prize story ("Mama Lives in the Kitchen," by Lael J. Littke), I thought good, except for the fact that a woman with three children, ages three, ten, and sixteen, should not have been so overwhelmed with kitchen work, unless she really wanted to do it, which, I suppose, is the point of the story. The frontispiece poem ("Sonnet to the Sea," by Alice Morrey Bailey) I love, and I am thankful I have had the delight of being on that very spot in Monterey. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires, No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, ot the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act, of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 63 to Receive Nita Ellis 276 Please, Not This One Merle £. Feriante 283 Be ourself Betty G Pencey 303 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 3 Hazej M Thomson Genera; Features 242 From Near and Far 271 man's Sphere Ramongq W. Cannon 272 Editorial. Relief Society Time at the New York World's Fair @rianne C. D 274 otes to the Field Lesso Previews to e Relief Societ Magaz; 310 Notes RF i i Louise Murray 291 Stretching the Food Budget 295 'he ther ay Christie Lund Cole 296 oO bout a "Get It One Day"? Verg Stocker 297 It 'as Springtime Evelyn Fieldsted 298 ound-Table Tog therness Violet Nimm 300 Cover-Up, for Older Tots Adelle Ashb 302 Sara C Owles Mak. S Many Quilts and Quilted Bedspreads Poetry 241 Quest _ Frontispiece Lucille Rampton Perry Neighbor Child Vy Margery Ss ewart, 249. Enchanteq alley, by Sylvia Prob: Youn The Warble by Orothy J. Berts, 4; rt Renewed, by Grace Barke Wilson 275; 282: Gift Apron, by Be lah Huis Sad elr, 288; Th e€aven claim, by Veda G infor, 289; Pring ashion, Vesta airb Irn, 290: imulus, b a Willes Wa 8S8aard, 290; Emp Y Nest, by Ida laine J Mes, 294 nN Even; Thought b erine B Owles, 295; Halfway. By Zara Sabin, 9; De erted Fa Ouse, by An Atkin Tanner, 309; Slee obinson 319, Part VI _ Make t¢ © Most of Economica] Cuts of Meat 261; Pring's Impulse, by Thelma Desert In Sp ngtime, by Ethel] acobson, 981. Y Iris w. Schow, 317; Sadie 0 Morris nd, 2: uintet fo Sprin » by azel Loomis, 269; is Orgiving Way, by Viola Ashton Candland ank You, by Orrett. Hanson, 318; accheys by Linnie Fisher Exalting the Poor Presiding Bishop John H. Vandenberg [Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963] I feel very humble and grateful, my dear sisters, to participate with you in this conference of Relief Society leaders. It has been suggested that I say something concerning the Relief Society's responsibility toward the welfare program in the wards and stakes of the Church. One of the distinguishing features of the Church is its organization of which the Relief Society is one of the strong facets. The Prophet Joseph Smith said, "I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood," and _ then later he said, "This church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized.""! One never thinks of welfare work in the Church without thinking of the Relief Society. Elder Albert E. Bowen once said, "A church is an organization for the orderly carrying out of practices enjoined. Organization means order. Lack of it means frustration and chaos. It is important to note that for every command God has given he has provided means for carrying it out.' The Savior was deeply concerned about those in need and gave particular attention to the requirement of taking care of the poor, to those who would serve him. "If thou wilt be perfect," he said to the rich young 244 man, "go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor.' His apostles continued his doctrine. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.' In this latter day, a special injunction has come to the bishop in "Searching after the poor to administer to their wants.'® Further, ''and it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it needs be in mine own way." The welfare plan is the Lord's own way and encompasses all the instructions that have just been referred to. President Heber J. Grant declared, "This is one of the greatest and most important things the Church has ever undertaken to put over, and it will be put over because we have the ability | and the power to do it.''® I like to think that when President Grant spoke of the "ability" he was thinking of the devoted women in the Relief Society with their characteristics of tenderness, mercy, warmth, love, understanding, and ability to "provoke the brethren to good works." When he spoke of the "power" he was thinking of the Priesthood, its organization, and the Priesthood bearers' devotion to the Church. The combination of the two operating together cannot fail. THE objectives of the welfare plan are continuous and varied. They may, however, be generally thought of as belonging to two categories — immediate and ultimate. The immediate objective is to render necessary assistance, to see that "'all should be cared for, no one should suffer, no one should be hungry, no one unclothed, no one without shelter." Where it is reported that a family is in need, the bishop investigates that need by counseling with the family. Upon his recommendation, he directs the Relief Society president to visit the home to ascertain what may be necessary for the proper consideration of the case. If the family is found to be destitute of food or clothing or other needful items, the Relief Society president at once reports to the bishop with her recommendation — and an order to the storehouse is then issued by the bishop to supply the immediate needs. They do not wait for an extended analysis. Then follows the real work of analyzing and rehabilitating the family into a self-sustaining program. It is here that the Relief Society is responsible smoothly and efficiently to assist the bishop. Today, the standard of living is generally considered to be greatly improved over the conditions of the nineteen thirties; but there are many who are in need, and the welfare plan is operating more effectively than EXALTING THE POOR ever in helping to care for physical needs. Realistically, we are meeting this challenge, and the Relief Society is efficiently carrying out the assignments given to it by the Priesthood, both in the rendering of assistance and in the production of commodities. The ultimate objective is to "help people to help themselves." True charity is more than just giving, it is to help one to lift himself so that he can independently maintain himself. It has been said: The real long term objective of the Welfare Plan is the building of character in the members of the Church, givers and receivers, rescuing all that is finest down deep in the inside of them and bringing to flower and fruitage the latent richness of the spirit which after all is the mission and purpose and reason for being of this Church." James Allen once said: Man is a growth by law, and not a creation by artifice, and cause and effect are as absolute and undeviating in the hidden realm of thought as in the world of visible and material things. A noble and Godlike character is not a thing of favour or chance, but is the natural result of continued effort in right thinking, the effect of long cherished association with Godlike thoughts. It would appear, then, that there is need to prepare the minds of the people with the great virtues of the plan. This being the case where do we start? THE apostle Paul suggests that the home is where true charity begins. He said: "But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.' 245 APRIL 1964 The home is where the Prophet Joseph Smith placed the emphasis when he said to the Relief Society: To illustrate the object of the Society, that the Society of Sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking after the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants, to assist, by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community....1° The home is the fortress of the Church. The home is the place to build the character of the people. The home is where the morals may be corrected to strengthen the virtues of the community. Our lives and conduct must be such as to invite the spirit of the Lord to dwell in our homes. When we think of the Relief Society, we think of the mothers in the Church. The mothers are the center of the lives of all Church members — children and husbands, alike. The Relief Society, because of its direct line through the mothers into the homes of the Church, is a potent agency through which we can hope to achieve the ultimate welfare goal of the Church. George Hubert said, "A good mother equals a hundred schoolmasters. George Washington, the eldest of five children, was only eleven years of age when his father died. His mother was a woman of extraordinary ability who handled her responsibilities with success." No assignment in the Relief Society should ever be considered as an excuse to neglect the home. You, as leaders in the Relief Society, must set the example in 246 the home and promote peace and love therein. Again, let me remind you that the home is the fortress of the Church. Keep it strong by properly teaching the mothers in the arts of homemaking. It has also been said, and I quote: The greatest literary artist in American History, Nathaniel Hawthorne, not only owed his success to the daily inspiration of his good wife, but also his only opportunity to compose first his mind and then his masterpiece. If it had not been for Sophia, perhaps we should not now remember Hawthorne. He lost his job in the custom house. A broken-hearted man, he went home to tell his wife that he was a failure. To his amazement she beamed with joy. "Now you can write your book." He said, "Yes, and what shall we live on while I am writing it?" She opened the drawer and took out an unsuspected hoard of cash. "Where on earth did you get it?" She said, "I have always known you were a man of genius. I knew someday you would write an immortal masterpiece. Out of the money you gave me I have saved a little — here is enough to last us for a whole year." Hawthorne sat down and wrote one of his finest books, The Scarlet Letter. UNLESs we pursue organization and correction through the homes, the homes will perpetuate the need of welfare. Children who are reared in the environment of — a home sustained on direct relief are more likely to follow this pattern all their lives. Direct relief all too often invites the curse of idleness and fosters other evil] of dole. The analysis of the cause the need should point the dir tion for us to follow. We usu: find that need arises from of the following causes: Sickness — This may be of a temporary nature or of long duration. It is here that the visiting of the sick by the Relief Society is so urgent. First, we should be diligent to discover the conditions of the needy and, second, give the necessary assistance dictated by the circumstances. Failure to manage economic affairs — In our efforts to exalt the poor, we must teach the management of financial affairs. Abraham Lincoln gave us a key when he said: You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich. You cannot establish sound security on borrowed money. You cannot escape trouble' by spending more than you earn. You cannot build character by taking away a man's initiative and independence. You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should have done for themselves. I should think that the Relief Society can do much good in training the mothers in the proper handling of money — helping them to set up a budget and to teach the habits of thrift and home management. Indeed, a concentrated effort should be made in this respect, for so many of our people have little understanding of the principle of budgeting and making accounts. Benjamin Franklin told of the effectiveness of this virtue. He said: In 1733 I sent one of my journeymen to Charleston, South Carolina, where a printer was wanting. I furnished him with a press and letters, EXALTING THE POOR on an agreement of partnership by which I was to receive one third of the profits of the business, paying one third of the expense. He was a man of learning and honest but ignorant of the matters of account, and tho' he sometimes made me remittance, I could get no account from him, nor any satisfactory state of our partnership while he lived. On his decease the business was continued by his widow, who being born and bred in Holland, where as I have been informed, the knowledge of accounts makes part of a female education, she not only sent me as clear a statement as she could find of the transactions past, but continued to account with greatest regularity and exactness every quarter afterwards, and managed the business with such success that she not only brought up respectably a family of children, but at the expiration of the time was able to purchase of me the printing house and established her son in it. Sisters, the bishops have been charged by the Lord with the responsibility of managing the affairs of the poor — they need your help to avoid waste, to teach mothers to operate their homes on a budget, not to overextend themselves financially, learn to live simply, overcome extravagant habits, and avoid unnecessary debt. Idleness — This problem is, no doubt, caused by environment and, although it has been stated, "He that is idle shall not eat the bread... Of the laborer," it does not relieve us of the responsibility to help, but rather gives us a challenge to teach the idler the blessings of labor that he may enjoy the virtue of industry. Once having been taught this, it will add greatly to his character. Lack of Education — Today, one of the serious problems is the lack of training and education of those unemployed. In this 247 APRIL 1964 day of mechanical advancement and automation, specialized and technical training is a must to continuous employment. "During periods of unemployment,"' one prominent financial writer states, "there are four times as many men with less than high school education unemployed as compared to those men with more than a high school education." With more schooling, men not only tend to have more job security but also tend to earn more. The United States Department of Labor has published statistics based on the 1958 Census figures which compare the average earnings of high school graduates, high school "dropouts," and eighth grade graduates. These figures indicate that a high school graduate's earning capacity is greater by approximately $2,000 a year. Let's reduce this figure to $1,500 for illustrative purposes. Using this figure, if a young man should at age twentyone deposit his extra earnings each year in the bank at 4% interest compounded semiannually, at the age of sixty-five he would have saved $176,874.21. To find out how much each day of high school attendance would be worth in terms of probable future lifetime earnings, let us divide the $176,874.21 by 700 days of high school attendance. Each day spent in high school would thus be worth $252.67. The difference between the probable lifetime earnings of a person with four or more years of college, as compared with the high school graduate, would be approximately $3,000 a year. You will recognize that the 248 failure of youth to seek adequate education and training may become a serious handicap through their whole life. President David O. McKay states, "Students enter school primarily to gain economic and social advantage. But this aim is not always achieved, nor is it, nor should it be, the highest purpose of education. However, we must not underestimate the value of obtaining an education for a livelihood. Education for economic advancement is a good investment for the individual as well as for the state."" Many mothers do not realize the importance of seeing that their sons and daughters secure the proper education needed to keep pace with the demands of employment. We must take advantage of every opportunity to teach and warn parents of the serious consequences that arise when children become school "dropouts." Handicap — What a wonderful thing it would be for the Relief Society in the wards to seek out the handicapped; to see what might be done to provide a program to have them feel the thrill of achievement. Death — Particular attention should be given to every family where death strikes. The love - and warmth rendered by the Relief Society have been so beneficial. Where serious problems arise because of the passing of the father or mother, special attention is to be given by the Relief Society under the direction of the bishop. Thus, in summary, some of the responsibilities of the Relief Society in the welfare program are: 1. To assist the Priesthood in rendering immediate help and the ultimate rehabilitation of the needy. 2. To strengthen the homes and train the mothers in the arts of homemaking, including financial management. 3. To teach mothers the necessity of adequate training and education for their sons and daughters. 4. To administer to the needs of the sick and the handicapped. 5. To bring comfort and understanding to families where death is experienced. 6. To live the principles of the gospel — teach by example and precept. In closing, let me suggest the words of our prophet David O. EXALTING THE POOR McKay, "The greatest blessings that will accrue from the Church Security Plan are spiritual. Outwardly, every act seems to be directed toward the physical — remaking of dresses and suits of clothes, canning fruits and vegetables, storing foodstuffs, choosing of fertile fields for settlement — but permeating all these acts, inspiring and sanctifying them, is the element of spirituality." May the Lord bless us as we serve together in this great welfare program is my humble prayer. And I ask it-in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. \The Relief Society Magazine VI, 129 2The Church Welfare Plan, page 2 3Mt. 19:21 4James 1:27 5D&C 84:112 6The Church Welfare Plan, page 3 ™The Church Welfare Plan, page 44 8As a Man Thinketh, page 8 9J Tim. 5:8 10oRelief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842 Gospel Ideals, page 429 Neighbor Child Margery S. Stewart She does not wait to be asked in, Rings the bell... Darts under my arm, Skips like a sparrow around The minutes, picking up brief worms Of my greeting. | love you, she says. The words are three sickles. We stand waiting. She must see all the windows at once, Ask all the questions in a tumble, Put the pale tongue of her finger On everything she passes. 1 love, she says, Everything becomes still.... Waiting.... Like a pond for another pebble perhaps? No. Like the kitten for another leap From the long dead cicada? No. | look at the child and she looks At my mouth.... Willing it to form Words. | love, she says; The teacher waits in her eyes. | love you, | say unhappily. She takes the three stones, Blesses them, And departs. 249 Marjorie C. Pingree Appointed to the General Board Elizabeth B. Winters Member, General Board of Relief Society Miarsorie Cannon Pingree was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a daughter of Lewis M. Cannon (son of Angus M. Cannon, who served as president of Salt Lake Stake for twentyeight years) and Mary Alice Cannon, daughter of George Q. Cannon. Her mother died when she was five years old, and her father, who had served as a bishop for twenty-two years, died when Marjorie was in college. Mrs. Pingree was educated in the Salt Lake City schools, was graduated from the University of Utah, and taught school for three years. She has served in many positions of leadership in the Church, including ward Primary president; a member of the Ensign Stake Primary Board; YWMIA teacher and counselor in her ward; president of Ensign Second Ward Relief Society; literature class leader in her ward. Literature has always held special interest for her. In 1928 Marjorie Cannon and J. Fred Pingree were married in the Salt Lake temple. Brother Pingree is a Salt Lake City business man. He has served as Ensign Stake clerk and_ has been a member of the stake High Council for fifteen years. The Pingrees have four children: Patricia (Mrs. Vernon B. Rom- 250 ney), who served as a stake missionary in Washington, D. C., and is now a member of the General Board of the Primary Association; J. Fred, Jr., who served as a missionary in Central America; George C., who served in the New England Mission, and is now a medical doctor with the armed forces in France; John C., who served a mission in Argentina. All of the sons were called as counselors to their respective mission presidents. The daughter and sons, like their parents, are all graduates of the University of Utah. She has nine grandchildren. - Sister Pingree brings to the General Board her outstanding ability, experience, a gracious personality, devotion to the Church, and a_ willingness to serve. Darlene C. Dedekind Appointed to the General Board Irene W. Buehner Member General Board of Relief Society DarRLENE Christensen Dedekind was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, January 15, 1964. She has accepted this responsibility with a sweet spirit of humility and willingness to serve our Heavenly Father. Her wide background of rich spiritual experience in Church service ably qualifies her for her new position. Sister Dedekind is the daughter of Emilius A. And Ellen J. Pehrson Christensen. She was born in Fairview, Utah. Her father was a convert from Copenhagen, Denmark. These two devoted Latter-day Saints endowed their children with an abiding appreciation for the gospel, as well as a gift for gracious living. The family has lived in Salt Lake City, Kansas City, Minneapolis, and Chicago. After one year of college she was called to serve in the Texas Mission under President ElRay L. Christiansen. She has attended the University of Utah and the University of Minnesota. On July 25, 1941, in the Salt Lake Temple, she was married to Dr. Kenneth L. Dedekind, an oral surgeon. They are the parents of three lovely daughters, Kendra Lyn, a junior at the University of Utah; Deborah Ceanne, a freshman at the University of Utah; and Sandra Jo, a junior at East High School. During the years Sister Dedekind has demonstrated her love for the gospel and her leadership ability by serving in YWMIA ward presidencies, Hillside Stake Primary presidency, and ward Relief Society presidencies. At the time of her appointment to the General Board she was serving as a Monument Park Stake missionary, as well as a ward social science class leader. Sister Dedekind, faithful to her heritage, has created a completely gracious, charming home for her family. She embodies and radiates the sterling qualities of dignity, gentility, and humility. Surely these attributes, coupled with her sincere testimony of the gospel and earnest desire to serve, will enable her to magnify the call which has come to her and add great strength to the General Board. 251 Cleone R. Eccles Appointed to the General Board Jeanette M. Morrell CLEONE Rich Eccles was appointed to the General Board of the Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She has a noble heritage, a fervent testimony of the gospel, a charming personality, and a background of travel and experience. She is the granddaughter of apostle Charles C. Rich, and the daughter of Dr. Edward I. Rich and Emily Almira Cozzens, pioneers in the professional and cultural development of Weber County. Her mother was Mount Ogden Stake president of the Relief Society for twenty-three years, so she was reared in an atmosphere of the highest ideals of Relief Society. She attended the New England Conservatory of Music, where she received professional training on the violin. During her entire life she has been most generous in sharing her great talent. She married Royal Eccles in the Salt Lake Temple on August 22, 1918. He passed away February 5, 1963. They are the parents of six children: Maren EK. Hardy (Washington D. C.); Cleone E. Yeates (Salt Lake City, Utah); Claire E. Matthies (Ogden, Utah); Edward Rich Eccles (deceased); Myrelle E. Thomas (Salt Lake City, Utah); Justin Rich Eccles (Los Alamitos, California). She has been active in civic 252 affairs, serving as a member of the Weber County Welfare Board from 1937 to 1955. In musical circles she served as a member of the Utah State Symphony Board. She was active in bringing the Community Concert Association to Ogden, and was vice-president of that organization from 1935 to 1956. Her Church activities have included seven years as Sunday School teacher; four years as stake president of the Mount Ogden YWMIA; four years as president of the Twelfth Ward Relief Society; four years as president of the Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; and five years as literature class leader in her home ward Relief Society. Her capacity for sympathetic understanding and her unselfish desire to serve in any capacity, will make her a valuable member of the Relief Society General Board. Privilege to ad = APRIL 1964 In 1959 in Great Britain, when we organized the district auxiliary boards to help prepare our people for stakehood, a challenge was issued to each division of the mission board. The first instructions to the Relief Society Board were, "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every member's home to increase the spirituality, to combat evil influences, to improve the _ attendance at Relief Society, and to help the family to be homecentered in its life." It was suggested that The Relief Society Magazine was the mortar that would hold these objectives together and build a strong building of preparedness for stakehood. It was outlined that The Relief Society Magazine would be the stimulator, the motivator, and the blueprint for perfection and progress in personal lives, in family life, and in organizational accomplishment in the mission. How well the sisters succeeded in their objective is seen in the fact that, for the first time in British Mission history, in 1960, 107% of the members' families took The Relief Society Magazine, and the mission was on the Honor Roll. In 1961, the British Mission led all missions of the Church, with 147% of the families taking the Magazine. And as far as accomplishing the purpose of preparation for stakehood, where there were no stakes in 1959, there are now six stakes in the original British Mission. Out of this wide circulation came some wonderful stories that show The Relief Society Magazine is great for husbands, that it is an ideal missionary, and that the Magazine reactivates members 254 and brings within them a desire to serve. For example: Roy Caddick, now in the stake presidency of the Manchester Stake, is a schoolteacher. He had completely forgotten his assignment to be the teacher-speaker at a faculty meeting on Monday morning. When he awakened to his assignment early on Monday morning, all he had in his pocket was his wife's copy of The Relief Society Magazine. He became absorbed reading the literature lesson on Shakespeare's Hamlet. Standing to give his talk, he repeated what he had read in the Relief Society literature lesson. When he had completed his talk, the headmaster arose and said something like this: "We want to compliment Mr. Caddick on his excellent preparation. I don't know how many books he must have read to give us this comprehensive and fresh talk on Shakespeare's Hamlet, but I do know it has been the finest faculty talk we have had this year. We commend him for his example, and for his study." As a missionary, The Relief Society Magazine has no peer. One of the ardent solicitors in the British Mission saw a new sister in church. She asked her to subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine. She did so, even though this was her first visit to a strange church. With each succeeding copy she became engrossed in this great women's Magazine that taught every good facet of life. She was inspired by the theology lessons. She was engrossed in the social science lessons. She was interested in the culture of the literature lessons. And she was really excited about the work meeting suggestions. Surely, the Church that published such an uplifting and wellrounded Magazine Must be inspired. She began coming to Relief Society, and her discussions with the missionaries were merely perfunctory; she had already been converted by the Magazine. AS a means of binding one to the Church, fellowshipping a new convert, or even bringing one back into activity, The Relief Society Magazine stands alone. For instance: a nhew member went to Relief Society for the first time and subscribed to the Magazine. The woman giving the lesson evidently was unprepared, and our new member was very disinterested to the point that she thought she would not go again. Shortly, the Magazine began arriving in her home. She read it from cover to cover. When she came to the lesson material that the unprepared sister had poorly given, she read it and thought, why this is beautiful. I guess I didn't understand it. She decided she must be a part of the discussion of the lessons which she was enjoying reading. The Magazine had aroused her interest, rejuvenated her spirit, and rekindled her desire to be a part of the kingdom. Yes, The Relief Society Magazine is a great power, an_influence, and a factor of worth in our fight with Satan. I have been reading it for thirty-five years. Hen on my first mission to Switzerland, as a young boy, I was given the assignment of working with the Relief Society. In our thirty years of marriage, J THE WORTH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have read with Sister Woodbury her lessons, as She has prepared to teach, first the literature lessons, then the theology lessons, and, currently, the social science lessons. I think the Magazine is better today than it has ever been — in content, in uplift, and, surely, in make-up. I think the Covers of recent months have been frame-worthy — each of Food Budget" present worthwhile day of devalued dollars. Now, I would like to issue a challenge to all of you sisters who represent the leadership of Magazine sales in your stakes, missions, and districts. The Savior held out perfection to us, which, to me, means 100%. There should not be a single Relief Society in this Church which is not getting 100%. That is assumed! That is perfection! But more than that, the Savior said that those who should ask you to go one mile, "go with him twain." In other words, go the extra mile! Every member is a missionary and every member is to bring in another member, I can't think of a finer way to begin this accomplishment than by giving a subscription to your fine neighbor friend who is a non-Mormon, or getting her to subscribe to this Spiritual, uplifting Magazine. Let us all go the extra mile and get that extra mile smile in 1964 with 200%. 255 Art four o'clock that winter day a slender girl with the still, pale face of a cameo climbed aboard the bus. It was almost dusk, and a brisk wind whipped Miriam's fur coat about her legs as she stepped up. There were only four other passengers. A mother in a worn cloth coat occupied one seat, and beside her was a lunch hamper. Her two little girls in red snowsuits and red mittens bounced up and down in the seats behind her, chanting, '"We're going to visit Grandma! We're going to visit Grandma!" They stopped just long enough to call out a merry "Hi!" in Miriam's direction. Across the aisle and a few seats back, a young man in spectacles nervously checked through a bulging briefcase. The motor of the bus had been purring quietly for some time before the driver walked through and took their tickets. Then he folded himself into the driver's seat with a quizzical glance out the window, and the bus began to move. Miriam tried to relax in her 256 seat, ignoring the friendliness of the children. Ever since the unexpected termination of her engagement the week before, she had been an automaton, armored against the world, numb and frozen. After a sudden decision in the night she had hurried all day to get away. Escape and isolation — that was what she wanted. Were they the answer to her unhappiness? She snuggled down in her fur coat and buried her face in its collar. Her heart felt as bleak as the cold gray city streets outside. Mechanically, with cold eyes, she watched the changing winter scene as the bus left the city limits and moved into the country. As she glanced at the evening sky a faint foreboding touched her. She looked at the highway, and snow was sifting across the road in quick continuous series like troubled ripples on windswept' water. There was nothing to worry about yet. There was something comforting in the chatter of the little girls and the rustling papers of the young man. The miles sped by; Miriam dozed. A sudden lurching of the bus awakened her, and then she, as all the others, was on the edge of her seat, staring with worried eyes at the road ahead. The ripples had become waves of snow that whipped across the road in great gusts. In the nearby fields the cattle, hoary with snow, stood with their backs humped against the storm. The bus was traveling much slower; it swayed with the heavy gusts. Miriam turned her eyes from the road to look at her fellow passengers. The mother still sat on the edge of her seat and looked outside with growing apprehension. Behind her the children peeked solemnly out the window. The young man shifted restlessly and with tense fingers tapped an irregular rhythm on his briefcase. At the front the driver crouched over the steering wheel and peered closely through the windshield. The storm continued. It was dark now, and they had changed directions and were driving into the storm. In order to see at all the lights of the bus had to be on low beam. The snow came at them like millions of fierce, ice-tipped needles. The bus rocked and shook with the fury of their attack. All about them was the roar and the vibration. The driver muttered under his breath, and tried to see out the coated windshield. The wiper groaned as it made a feeble effort to clear a space. The bus inched along, and after a tense interval crawled to a stop outside a small restaurant in a village with an THE STORM impossible Indian name. Miriam remembered it from other trips. It served as the bus stop for the area. To the girl it was almost primitive, no_ electricity, no plumbing, just gasoline lamps and two buildings at the back of the lot. The driver stood up on cramped legs, and pushing up his cap with a tired hand, said wearily, "This is as far as we can go. We'll wait out the storm here."" He led the way and held the door while they climbed out. The fury of the storm lashed out at them. The wind nearly blew them off their feet, and the snow slapped their faces. The children shouted and clung to their mother. They went into the restaurant in a herd. Inside was light and warmth. They stamped and brushed off the snow, and crowded around the small circulating heater, rubbing chilled fingers, blowing noses, clearing throats. The young restaurant owner and his wife hurried to place steaming bowls of homemade soup on the counter. He told the driver, ""We were getting worried about you." At his urging they all sat down on the stools and took up their spoons. They were arrested by crisp tones from a small battery radio on the counter. "Blizzard warning continues. Motorists are urged to stay off the highways. All householders are asked to leave lights on by a window to guide lost travelers." They spooned down the thick, hot soup, and listened in silence to the news report: 'An unprecedented blizzard that surprised even the weatherman has lashed across the Canadian prairies with winds of sixty miles an 257 APRIL 1964 hour, gusts up to eighty-five, leaving hundreds of motorists stranded. Conditions are worsened by the twenty below zero temperatures. Heavy snowfall has disrupted communications and literally cut off many areas. However, the storm is expected to abate sometime during the night. At United Nations today...." There was much head shaking among the adults as they solemnly broke crackers and finished their simple meal. No one spoke. Miriam looked at the small cafe as if she had never seen it before. Last summer she had viewed with derision its gray walls, brown counter top, and two mustard-colored booths. Now she almost felt affection for it. The kerosene lamp hanging from the ceiling spread out a warm, golden light that covered the obvious defects, muted the stark colors, and made it cheery and homelike. The adults did not hurry to get down from the stools. The children finished first and discovered a playful tabby kitten to tease. Their happy play was a pretty complement to the solemn tones of the grownups. After a time, the cafe owner came out of his living quarters behind the cafe with a high pile of blankets and quilts. His wife followed with three pillows. "I wish we had beds for you all, but we've only one back there, and Mary needs it.'"' His young wife was obviously pregnant. 'Use these things to make yourselves as comfortable as you can. Pillows for the women and children."' With quick resourcefulness the mother made a bed on the table- 258 top in the far booth for the two little girls. She removed their shoes, tucked them in snugly. Then she kicked off her shoes, and wrapped herself in a blanket on the bench beside them. Miriam did the same. The driver and the young man settled down in the next booth; the young man kept the briefcase within reach, like a constant bedfellow. After the owner of the cafe had turned down the big hanging lamp, he and his wife retired to their quarters, leaving the door ajar. THE roar of the storm filled the night. To Miriam it seemed that the house itself was bending with the storm. The very nails seemed to stretch and yield. She heard their creaking protest. The others were asleep. She listened to the even breathing of the children, the quiet shifting of the mother, the young man sneezing in his blanket, the driver snoring in a low key. From her hard bed she looked at the isinglass window of the heater and the warm embers winked back at her. The storm was abating. Now, the noise was a mournful moaning and a sad sobbing. It was like a woman with wild hair wailing in a wilderness. Miriam felt a strange kinship with her. The tears she had kept frozen inside her began to course down her cheeks as the icy core inside melted away. Her thoughts no longer chased about in a wild frenzy, but bathed themselves in her tears. After a time she dried her face. The fire through the tiny window still kept a friendly vigil. Outside, the storm continued to retreat. The time of frenzy and woe was over. Now there was a_ low, murmuring sound, comforting like a mother's gentle lullaby. Hush! Hush! The girl slept. Miriam awoke next morning to happy children's voices. The adults, easing their cramped muscles, and yawning, took longer to get up. By the time Miriam was walking about, the young owner had already shaken down the fire and carried out the ashes. The young man, for once separated from his briefcase, thawed out a peephole in the frosted window of the front door, and invited the others to see for themselves. Miriam could hardly believe it was the same world. How peaceful! How still! A block away she saw the white village church with its steeple, as serene as the painted scene on a Christmas card. Everyone was jolly and friendly. The bespectacled young man parked his fat briefcase behind the counter and forgot about it. He borrowed the cafe owner's parka, boots, and heavy mitts, and shoveled wide paths to the outbuildings. It was cold. From the back window Miriam could observe him stop and slap his mittened hands vigorously against his thigh at intervals. He came in when his task was finished, with rosy cheeks and hoary eyebrows. He pushed his frosted spectacles up on his forehead to clear the lens, and to Miriam it seemed that his eyes gleamed with satisfaction. Meanwhile, the bus driver went out to the bus to see if it would go. From inside they heard the motor's strangled sputterings and chokings. He coaxed it along THE STORM until it roared in protest, then finally settled down to a resonant hum. He let it rtin awhile before he came back indoors, blowing on his fingers and rubbing his hands. Together, Miriam and the mother folded blankets and quilts and put them away. Then they took their turns at the washstand. The hand pump was temperamental. It creakingly refused to yield any water to Miriam's gingerly, inexperienced handling. "Here, let me show you." The cafe owner pumped energetically, and water spurted out into the tin pail. "You weren't holding your face right," he teased her. The children thought it was fun to wash in the enameled basin. "Where are the taps?" the older asked. They only protested when their mother combed through their tangled hair. "Breakfast is ready," young wife called. They sat down at the counter to a country breakfast — porridge, pancakes, bacon and eggs, and mugs of hot chocolate. No one hurried. It would be hours, they knew, before the highway was cleared. Miriam, to her amazement, found hezself involved in a political discussion with the young man and the bus driver. She had not known that she had strong inclinations one way or another until they challenged one of her random statements. She defended her opinions with fervor. She caught herself punctuating her remarks with jabs at the unoffending breakfast on her plate. The men laughed at her, and after a moment she laughed with them. The meal over, the children the 259 APRIL 1964 looked through the toy catalog while the women chattered over the dishes. Afterwards, the young wife took the mother and Miriam to her bedroom. From a bottom drawer she brought out the tiny garments she had made for her expected baby. She lifted them from their tissue-paper wrappings and showed them with something akin to reverence on her freckled face. She might have been an empress displaying her jewels. From the restaurant they could hear the men loudly talking about late model cars and hockey players. Miriam didn't realize it, but she came out of the bedroom with a forlorn face. The young man declared positively, "You need a walk in the snow. Bundle up and we'll take these kids for an outing. They're getting a bit bored with that catalog." The children excitedly ran for their snowsuits. Miriam put on her coat, but wisely laid aside her modish hat and felt boots with their ridiculous high heels. With a woolen scarf on her head, and borrowed overshoes, she felt more comfortable. The children ran outside like caged animals suddenly liberated. "Yes," the young man said, as they followed them, "an experience like this is good for us. We get down to the essentials and realize just how many of the things we work for and are concerned about are just the trappings of civilization. Doesn't this arouse your pioneer spirit though?" He trudged through the snow with purposeful strides, and Miriam followed in his tracks. At the edge of the field they caught 260 up to the little girls who were bent over something small and dark on the snow. It was a frozen field mouse. "Is it dead?" The older girl raised stricken eyes. "Yes," the young man answered. "It got lost in the storm, I guess." "Why didn't it stay in its own little home?" asked the little one. "Why? Probably because it was hungry." They found a sheltered hole by a tree, and covered the mouse over with snow. "There, it's safe now," they told the children. "TLet's go tell Mama about it," one suggested, and the two of them turned back across the field. "Just a little mouse," mused the young man, "and yet for me it poses all the major questions of life and death. I had a little mouse once, the smallest, ugliest little creature I had ever seen." As they slowly followed the little girls he told Miriam how he had visited his grandfather's farm when he was a lad of six. They had gone for a walk in the fields one day and had found a mouse nest that had been run over by a hay rake. The mother and all her babies except one were dead. His grandfather wished mercifully to kill the — little mouse, for it was less than an inch long, with no hair, only rudimentary ears and eyes — a pink squirming mite was all it was, with a hungry mouth and a pathetic, thread-like tail. He had begged for the mouse for a pet, and for a day he had kept it alive, feeding it warmed milk from an eye dropper, putting it to sleep in a soft little bed. How it had thrilled him to hold its She felt as unmarked by bitter. Tiny vibra nt body In his fingers, Ness as the Snow before them, d died and he had been How foolish to think She could n. Why he kept ask. Cyt herself off from Others __ is srandfather had how foolish to want to hide. BeXplain. Side her the young man was mutOnly God kn ws. Maytering, almost Imself es €cause we didn't know hadn't thou bout at mouse e for it Maybe We fed for years," hey w lked slowly not Wasted."' The US driver Warmed the Ot wasted. The words motor, and the children Skipped ed in disappointment and had forgotten his briefcase, and » and her unhappiness ran back for it. Miriam Shared a not wasted €Motions. Seat with the young Mother; the they had seemed like children Swung their legs in the orm, Unpredictable Seats ahead. The young man and t sh | I l a Preparation for One another as the bys Moved more lasting telationshins, Onto the highway There isa valley Where the SPring wil] come Across the waiting fields When April's new, A quiet Valley bounded by God's hills, m Pp 261 262 Spring's Impulse Thelma J. Lund Where shall | find spring's impulse — In a hollow of buttercup gold along the curve of a stream bank where blades of green unfold? Here in a woodland meadow where violet petals stain the earth and breathe their fragrance after an April rain? There in a shallow of water, the hue of a bluebird's wing, where a cloud's reflection floats slowly, rippling? Or is this elusive impulse merely a whim of weather awakened by the soundless falling of a robin's feather? Don Knight More blessed to Receive Nita Ellis Penarth, Glamorganshire, South Wales WELL, you're on your way home, Susan. Glad?" Douglas, big and tow-haired, smiled at his wife, sitting listlessly beside him in the car. He noted, with a pang, that her pretty blue suit fitted her more loosely than it had done six week ago. "Of course, darling!" She said it quietly — too quietly. And because they had been close to one another for so many years, he understood at once. "Now, you don't have to take it that hard. It won't hurt you to let others do the jobs you've always done. I've got it all arranged. Mrs. James is to come every day instead of once a week, and we'll have a nice, quiet holiday somewhere." "T don't want a nice quiet holiday, Doug. I just want to do my own housework, and not watch someone else doing it." His smile became wry, as though he realized the futility of trying to placate her. He said nothing, his anxious, gray eyes fixed on the dusty road ahead. I shall never get used to it, she thought, miserably, never. The memory of the hospital surgeon's advice, bluntly matter-offact, brought her near to tears. ""You've led a very active life, Mrs. Stratton," he had _ said, "now you must reorganize things, so that you take it more easily. If you do that, you can expect to have as many more years as most of us. If you don't, this trouble will certainly flare up again, and then...." He had left the sentence unfinished, but his eloquent shrug had left a bleakness in Susan's tired face. Now, with the car purring its way through the busy town to the outskirts, and the new house 263 APRIL 1964 to which they had moved only a short time before Susan's illness, she gathered the last twenty-five years together in her thoughts, all of them busy, vital, active. She had taken so much more in her stride besides marriage and family. The many varied Church interests, her garden, the flower arrangement classes that had grown into a local society, the old people who had come to rely on her visits in times of bad weather — the list was endless. And now.... She watched the fields, green with summer, and tall trees that curtseyed in the warm breeze against the blue softness of the sky, but her mind was shut against the beauty of the tender afternoon. Lulled by the heat, she dozed, drooping a little against her husband's shoulder, her dark hair spraying into curves across her damp _ brow. THe sound of a familiar bark startled her, and she opened her eyes to see Wilkie leaping down the path, in an ecstatic flurry of doggy welcome. She was home! The rose-red brick house was sun-mellowed, its windows sparkling. Cathy, looking fresh and pretty, in a white linen frock, was standing at the gate, with one-year-old Peter in her arms. "Lovely to have you _ back, Mum," she called, happily, as Douglas helped his wife carefully from the car. Susan's face lighted up as she encircled her daughter's slim waist, and stroked Wilkie's madly bobbing head. She savored the warm velvet of her grandson's tiny head against her cheek for a long moment before stepping 264 into the coolness of the hall. It smelled of polish and was brilliant with flowers. In the big living room the table was laid with her best china, bowls of fruit and jellies colorful against her gossamer lace cloth. In the place of honor stood a large iced cake, with "Welcome Home" written on it. "Eiveryone's been so good," Cathy told her. "Mrs. Elliott brought the cake this morning. From the Relief Society, with love, she said. And those flowers in the hall were sent, already fixed in the containers, from the Arrangement Society." That really was thoughtful. What a lot of work went into those kindnesses. The ready tears threatened again, as Susan leaned back in the comfortable chair, trying to overcome them. "Your father says that you have managed splendidly, Cathy," she said, at last. "Of course, Mum. I brought Peter with me, and Mrs. James kept an eye on him, while I did the shopping and cooking. I was always home in time to collect the twins from school and fix Tom's meal. He sends his love — coming over tomorrow." Susan felt as though the relationship between them had been reversed. She had always thought that Cathy needed help, with an old-fashioned house, a_ lively baby, and twins only just five. But the young woman who spoke so confidently, had a brisk capable air that disconcerted her. "T don't know what we should have done without you," Susan admitted. Cathy's answering smile was a serene acceptance of her own capabilities, instead of the glow of a girl paid an unexpected compliment. Through the window, Susan could see the flower beds, still bare, framing the new lawn. No one had touched the garden, she thought. I don't think I could have borne it, if they'd done that job for me. Conscious of the silence, she said, stubbornly, "I'd planned to do everything myself —the rose circle — rockery — all of it. There's no satisfaction like working on new ground with your own hands." "Don't worry, dear, we'll see to it," her husband promised, cheerfully, but she shook her head. Douglas had done all the hardest preparation in their former garden, but he hadn't the feeling for growing things, as Susan had. It had never mattered that he had brains but no skill with his hands, as that plot of earth had been all hers, and she was proud of her green fingers. "It wouldn't be the same," she replied, gently. The tiny, awkward pause was broken by the sound of a gate slamming, feet skidding over the shining floor, and her son hurtling through the room. "Lo, Mum." He gave her a brief, rough hug, thrusting a posy of tight, pink rosebuds into her hands. "Gosh, I'm glad you're back! What we got to eat?" He registered approval of the loaded table with a grinning "Wow! Get a load of that cake!" THE tension was eased, and Susan ran fond blue eyes over the sturdy rosy-cheeked figure in the slightly faded jeans. He had MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE not been allowed to visit her in the hospital because he was only ten and she had missed him. "Thanks, Kenny," she said, lifting the blooms, and inhaling their perfume. "They're lovely." "Thought they'd go into old Noddy's cart."" Kenny began to set chairs around the table. "'Seeing you got no flowers growing yet." "Go and wash your hands, son." Douglas spoke sharply, and Kenny stared at him. "Take Noddy with you," suggested his mother. "Run a little water in, and you can arrange them for me." She turned to the recess where the little donkey and cart, modeled out of cream and brown pottery usually stood. "T put it away, Mum," explained Cathy. 'In the hall cupboard, Kenny — back of the top shelf. I wasn't having it broken while I was in charge," she went on, "I put your favorite ornament out of Pete's way." It was a happy meal. Kenny kept them laughing, and baby Peter, bolstered by cushions, lolled contentedly, at his grannie's side. Douglas touched his wife's fingers, as she passed plates, and the small, sweet contact eased the pain of knowing that he would never completely understand how she felt about the surgeon's verdict. L. Onc after Douglas was asleep that night, Susan lay, watching the sparkle of moonlight netted in the branches outlined against her window. Her body was taut and unrelaxed, while mentally, she took up, one by one, thoughts of the future. To be still was only to be half alive. Oh, yes, she 265 APRIL 1964 could cut down on a few things, but not all of them. If she was busy, she was happy — and, surely, if she was happy, she would be well, she argued to herself. She wasn't going to let them close in a protective circle around her, taking all her life away from her, doing the things she had always done. When Cathy left the following day, she took a bundle of laundry with her. "There's no need," Susan protested, indignantly. "It's just that there's extra this week,"' Cathy said, trying to 'soothe her. "Mrs. James has had other things to cope with, and my washing machine's as good as yours." Her smile was impish, affectionate, the kind she used to coax Peter out of a difficult mood, and the feeling of unreality invaded Susan again. "T'm not an invalid, Cath." "No, dear, you're convalescent. Remember how you looked after me, when Peter was born?" "That was different." "It wasn't different at all. It's nice to be doing something for you. Couldn't you try looking at things that way? You've helped so many people, and they're all longing to say 'thank you.' I met Judy Elliott on the way here this morning, and she says she'd just love to plant the flower beds for you." "Thank you," said Susan, firmly, "but I don't want the garden touched." "Tt will have to be done some time," Cathy pointed out with sweet reasonableness. "Bye, Mum. See you tomorrow." Her smile was unperturbed, 266 and Susan, watching her wheel Peter down the drive, dashed away the weak tears that seemed to be always near the surface. Cathy, she reflected, was grown up in a way she had never been before. She seemed a competent stranger, as trimly efficient as the starched hospital nurse had been. Wduen Douglas came home unexpectedly from the office some days later, he met Susan coming downstairs with her arms full of material. She looked at him defiantly. "I promised to make these up, before I went into hospital. There's nothing to a few hours sewing." "Those are for the club canteen, aren't they? Surely someone else could have taken over a job of that kind." "Judy Elliott offered to, but I wanted to do it, Douglas." "What else have you been doing?" he asked, gently, seeing her strained, pale face. "IT sorted over the piece box to find scraps for the patchwork quilt we're making, and cut out some felt toys for the work meeting. Just quiet jobs. That's all." "Absolutely all?" he pursued, relentlessly. "Well, I just walked over to see the Wilsons. They have both — been ill for months, and they love visitors. It wasn't far. Don't look so accusing." "Tt's too much, Susan. You're beginning again, taking up all the old jobs, and you can't do theit."" "You don't know how it feels to have people coming over to help, Mrs. James with the jam making, Cathy whisking away odd parcels of laundry, Judy offering to plant my garden. You can't understand how I hate taking." "You've always given." He drew the finished curtains from her. "Sometimes it's more blessed to receive, my dear." THERE was a babble of young voices outside, and Susan turned as the door burst open, to admit Jane and Tony, as alike as two peas in a pod. "Look, Grannie," they piped, "look what we've brought you — flowers." Brown earth and green stains smeared the chubby knees of the twins, and in their dusty warm hands they held tightly bundled dandelion heads. "To put in Noddy's cart," explained Jane, breathlessly. Waving her fistful of flashy gold, she ran to the window sill, where Noddy the donkey stood in harness between the chintz curtains. Excitedly she grabbed. There was a small gasp from Susan and a crash as the ornament hit a chair. The donkey lay on his side on the carpet his cart broken away from him. At the sight of grannie's face, Jane's round cheeks flushed and her brown eyes clouded. "I didn't mean to break Noddy, Grannie. I only wanted to put these lovely flowers in his cart. Please don't be cross. I couldn't help it." Tony put one grubby arm around his sister's shoulders. "They can mend it," he said with male nonchalance. "Mummy's got some glue that can stick anything." Susan's look rested on them, two hot, tired little scraps, with MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE their carefully picked gifts still clutched against their panting chests. Douglas thought he had never seen anything more graceful than the swift droop of his wife's body to receive those gifts. She buried her face in the yellow weeds, crying out how beautiful they were. "Tl put them in the little green bowl — see? I'll put some water in it. And the donkey can be mended quite easily."" She went out, the children dancing aroun? Her, their shrill delight filling the house.: Bur after her daughter had taken her little ones home, Susan inspected Noddy unhappily. "It won't show, Susan," her husband said. "It broke at the right part, luckily." "Remember buying this little fellow?" Her voice quivered. "The first present you ever gave me." She fingered the small animal lovingly. "All through the years, I've grown dwarf plants in a rockery, to supply his cart. I've never thought of him as a china figure, but a symbol. A reminder of the happiness we've shared. Now, he is patched up — he'll never be the same." Her face crumpled. "Like me — just like me!" The tears she had held back for so long flowed unheeded. She buried her face in her hands and _ sobbed. Douglas picked her up bodily, holding her close, waiting until she was calm enough to listen to him. "You make it difficult for us, darling. We all love you and want to help. We want you to get better." "Better for what? If I can't do the things I've always done, 267 APRIL 1964 what's left? Oh, I'm sorry, dear. I'm behaving badly, but I can't seem to help it." "You must, Susan," he told her calmly. "You've got to work this out for yourself. You know that." But as he bent over her, feeling the softness of her cheek, he doubted whether she ever would. Tue tension of inner conflict hung over the entire house. Its central point was the nakedlooking garden that none of them dared touch. It would have been their contribution to Susan's defeat. Kenny was too young to understand that, but the bare stretch beyond the French doors fretted him. He said to his father one day, ''Aren't we ever going to put any flowers in the garden?" "T expect Mum will do something about it, when she feels better, Ken," Douglas replied, guardedly. Kenny frowned over his homework, thinking about something one of the boys at school had told him. A party held in the garden instead of the house, where everyone brought a plant to put in the ground. Thoughts soon shaped into an idea that was both wonderful and simple. If his mother didn't feel like making the garden pretty, they could all get together and do it for her. It was just a question of getting enough people, and he knew most of those she worked with. The important thing was to keep it a secret from her. His mother was sewing in the living room. '"'What kind of flowers do you like best, Mum?" he inquired. 268 "T like them all," she told him. "Why?" "Oh, I just wondered. What sort would you like in your garden?" "Ken!" his father said, hurriedly, "isn't it almost your bedtime?" After Kenny had gone, thoughtfully, upstairs, Susan said, "Poor old Ken. He can't be expected to know how I feel." "Are you going to leave it as it is?" Douglas asked. "T suppose I shall have to have something done," she conceded, reluctantly. "But I don't mind what. It isn't important." "It was, once, Susan." "Yes, but it was my garden, then. It was to have been my own achievement, and I suppose I just don't want to give it up." Ir she had been less preoccupied, she would have noticed the banded-together look that enclosed her family. "Somebody's got to do something to wake Mum up, and make her realize how selfish she's being," Cathy had said to her father. "Selfish, Cath? Is that fair?' "Yes. How would she have felt if all the people she has helped had refused to accept anything from her?" The relationship between Cathy and her mother had changed, Douglas thought. Cathy was no longer the young housewife, needing support and advice. He doubted, suddenly, whether that Cathy had existed, except in Susan's imagination. But it must be hard to realize that one was no longer indispensable, he thought, with a flash of compassion. MORE BLESSED To RECEIVE Susan out for the afternoon and to be independent. See how when they returned, jt Was to happy they look!" and boxes of plants, Crowding the voice lifted, joyously, "Douglas garden. Has just told me what you have "What's this?" Susan deplanned. It's a wonderfy] surDouglas turned her round to manded, her face tight with disPrise, and the best Present I've had in My whole life" enny, disheveleq and earnest, face him, « his was Ken's idea. Appeared, "Ig jt 4 good garden Susan's — held the old ing you — the labor of their you ever had, Ken," she assured him, and, Sensing that his Mum to leave, because it's your place, was herself again, he beamed. Hazel Loomis He came with Spring full in his face. Gone autumn's doubt, 80ne winter's Seal. Within a Maple-wooded scene, Oh, Prayer, pierce Sky! Oh, heaven, melt. And forge from rock a holy stream f promise for a Crying void Or wisdom's lack! Who was he to doubt the word? With words so Clean They Covered all the earth. Oh, many Springs are woven there — A gentle path — a quiet wood — here he came alone for Prayer.... Tread lightly, lightly where he stood. 269 Some days later, Douglas took find people, busy with trowels years. This is their Way of thankor accept the gifts we've brought, friends. "T've been Stupid to want Walking towards them, her merry ring, "It's the: best idea "Where d'you want these rose ff x 5 3 =, |, Ss Lhe f I) Vif) f, 7, ra. F =. Yout Gu is v; oY Ay wd po /? (a 4; 4, 4 tA 4 A Y&LZ ft Ye | ey J 7 oe VU? Caroline Eyring Miner To Be Happy EveryTHING has its beauty, but not everyone sees it," said Confucius. This idea is akin to the one of "taking your good time with you," in which case you are sure to have it. It is one of the great sins to have had the potential for happiness, which we all have, but to have failed in its realization. The older I grow, and the more people I meet who carry grudges against this person and that, against this circumstance and that, with innumerable alibis for not being happier, the more wonderful I think my mother was. Mother was an optimist, Some criticized her for her undiscriminating tastes, as they labeled them. She thought there was no lovelier house than hers that just grew like Topsy a room at a time. She loved the little sleepy farming community in which she lived. She loved all the people in that town, just for their particular peculiarities and qualities. She loved each of her children, together with all their faults, of which she seemed strangely unaware. She enjoyed every little thing: golden dandelions, no matter in what annoying place they might be growing; spicy yellow roses that grew wild all over the place and were a detestable nuisance to everyone else. She had a moving picture of color TV, long before the invention, in the magnificent Arizona sunsets, which she so extravagantly praised. She was one person on whom "nothing was lost" that could bring her happiness. The Listener's Part Asa speaker in your service, I have a duty to deliver to you the speech I have prepared for you. You have a duty, too," the speaker continued. "Your responsibility is to listen and absorb and apply. Now, if you get through listening before I get through speaking, just raise your hands and I'll stop." It worked like magic. With such a challenge; people listened and didn't get through before the speaker did. The very fact that they listened motivated them to gain from the talk. The listener's part is less dramatic than that of the speaker, but it is every bit as significant. When we are speaking we are only giving forth what we already know, but when we listen we may learn something new. Being Educated Berinc educated means to prefer the best not only to the worst but to the second best," said the philosopher, William Lyon Phelps. Often we are put on the spot to justify an education for a person if he does not make more money than an uneducated person, and surprisingly enough, many do not. The above quotation is one good reason for having an education — to raise one's tastes; to lift standards; to help one be satisfied with only the best — the best literature, the best homemaking, the best performance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy of the Lord. 270 Lt. Colonel Harriet W. Worley, of the United States Army Nurse Corps, received the Legion of Merit award, the Nation's second highest peacetime award, at Fort Douglas, Utah, in January. Authorized by the President of the United States, the citation reads: ''With rare foresight, mature judgment, keen and analytical ability and resourcefulness, she developed the first Army Nurse Corps Career Management program, and was the innovator of formal nursing research and development in the Army." Mothers in Utah have the lowest infant mortality rate (20.3 per 1,000 live births) in the United States, according to Dr. Joseph P. Kesler, Director, Department of Children's Services, Utah State Department of Health. Among the factors involved in_ this record, Dr. Kesler lists the following: a higher educational level of the mothers, resulting in better infant care; a relatively low rate of cigarette smoking by mothers; relatively good hygienic and sanitary standards in the home; and the birth of more than ninety-nine per cent of all Utah babies in hospitals. Mary G. Roebling, who is a bank president, predicts, ''Within the next decade we will see a tremendous increase in the number of women occupying top managerial positions." Queen Frederika of Greece and her daughter, Princess Irene, twenty-two, arrived in New York January 22, for a brief visit in the United States. The Queen, a highly intelligent and well educated woman, received. An_ honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia University, and observed American television programs. Margaret Chase Smith, senior Senator from Maine, on January 27, entered the race for the Republican nomination for President of the United States. First woman to enter actively such a campaign in a major party, her name will be presented in primaries in New Hampshire and Illinois and probably in the District of Columbia and Oregon. Mrs. Smith served in the House of Representatives from 1940-1948 and in the Senate since 1948. She is noted for faithful attendance at Senate sessions and committee meetings, being a member of two powerful committees, the Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committee and the Armed Services and Appropriations Committee. There are 57,926,000 women of voting age in the United States. That is approximately 3,828,000 more than the men of voting age in the country. Women could actually control political situations, but they rarely vote as a block. Polls show that more men than women are favorable to the idea of having a woman president. 271 EDITORIAL Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Relief Society Time at the New York World's Fair June 24-25, 1964 As the Church has moved out of the wilderness since it was organized in 1830 so, under the guidance of the Priesthood, Relief Society has moved with it. As the gospel is brought to different nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, the divine organization for women — the Relief Society — is also constituted to do the work assigned by the Church to Church women. With the great impetus today from the inspired plans of acceleration in Church government, Relief Society, as the companion organization to the Priesthood, moves forward in like tempo with expanded programs. 'Its Singing Mothers have won signal recognition in many parts of the Church, none greater than the 1961 International Chorus of Singing Mothers which combined singers from Utah with singers from the British Isles under the leadership of Sister Florence J. Madsen. Now, at the New York World's Fair, Singing Mothers Concerts are to be given under the direction of the General Board on the afternoons of June 24 and 25, 1964. The Singing Mothers will all be from the New York, New Jersey, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, and Potomac Stakes. Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, chorister of the Washington Stake Relief Society, will conduct the two concerts. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, chairman of the General Board's music committee, will be associated with Mrs. Barnes in presenting numbers at the concerts. Mrs. Barnes and Mrs. Madsen are both graduates of the New England Conservatory of Music and both are experienced in conducting Singing 272 Mothers Choruses. This activity sets a new pattern in General Board direction wherein the major responsibility is placed upon a geographic unit of the Church. Two concerts will take place on each of the afternoons of June 24 and 25 at the World's Fair Pavilion. This would seem a propitious time for Relief Society women everywhere who plan to attend the Fair with their families to make their visit to the Fair include these dates. Relief Society women will serve as hostesses at the Better Living Center at the Women's Hospitality Center under the direction of Anna Laura Stohl Cannon for the week of June 22-27. June 24 has been designated as Relief Society Day at the Better Living Center, at which time the Relief Society General Presidency will receive guests of national and international renown. This Center will serve as the official headquarters for national and international women's organizations. Colonial Williamsburg is doing the interior decorating of this 5,000 square foot space which has been assigned to the Center. President Belle S. Spafford is a member of the Board of the Women's Advisory Council to the 1964-65 New York World's Fair. She works also under the direction of the World's Fair Committee of our Church. It is hoped that Relief Society sisters everywhere will converge on the New York World's Fair June 24 or 25 to enjoy the Singing Mothers Concerts. —M. C. S. 273 THE previews for the 1964-65 lessons will appear in the June 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1964 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1964. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings. 274 The Warblers Dorothy J. Roberts They brought a song, a wisp of thread, They scanned the pine outside my sill For nesting a perennial mate, And something moved my wintering will. Song grew until. A symphony Rose from the neighborhood of trees, And something, listening, aroused My waning wonder, hearing these Who weave their hopes above the street, Paired for flight into songful teams, Who build the bits | throw away Into a dwelling for their dreams. Cancer's Two Deatly ¢ ve vanmcers iWO Hweaeacty wands American Cancer Society In cancer, in 1964, there are two deep, tragic gaps: the research gap and the education gap. Cancer research has accomplished fifty per cent of its task. Today, it is possible cure to one half of all cancers. The remaining fifty per cent waits on new discoveries — bridging the research gap. The other gap — the education gap — could be bridged immediately. Lack of education cancels some of the benefits of research — by keeping about one out of every six cancer patients from the prompt diagnosis and the proper treatment that could save his life. In one year — this year —in this country, the education gap will cost about 90,000 lives — people who could be saved from cancer if they were properly educated and motivated to help themselves.. Education could save: people who have not learned the seven danger signals that may mean cancer — or who fail to act on these signals; people who do not know that cancer can be cured if found early, hence avoid periodic health examinations; people who do not know what modern surgery, radiation, and drugs can do against cancer, hence avoid proper treatment or delay it too long for safety. The seven danger signals are: unusual bleeding or discharge; a lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere; a sore that does not heal; change in bowel or bladder habits; hoarseness or cough; indigestion or difficulty in swallowing; change in wart or mole. To cure more, give more to the American Cancer Society! Earth Renewed Grace Barker Wilson | had forgotten how the earth is fair, The miracles of birds and butterflies, Till | saw wonder shining in her eyes, And shafts of sunlight making gold her hair. We gathered nuts and left them for the squirrels, We watched the wild canaries flash and dart From tree to tree. Again | felt a part Of mystery encompassing small girls. A bright leaf fallen from a maple tree, A fluffy cloud ship floating overhead, Were newly beautiful when sunset's red Reflected all her wonderment to me. 275 Cara floated gently, unhurried, through the anesthetic until the gleam of the delivery room ceiling brought her back to reality. "That didn't take long," she thought with drowsy relief. "You have a little girl." The doctor's pleasant voice caught her up with a jerk. "Is she all right?" She gave weak voice to the question first on a mother's tongue. "Yes," the doctor's voice reassured her. She gave in to the lassitude that plagued her, floating gently to the haven of no pain. "But," he continued, pulling her rudely back, "she has something wrong with her stomach. A hernia, or something of that order." She forced herself to show interest. "Oh?" Hernia operations were quite common. She began to drift away again, but the doctor wouldn't let her. "Let's go to the nursery so you can see her." Clara felt the table move under her and watched 276 through pleasantly clouded vision as the ceiling changed from white to cool green. The table stopped and a gentle hand on her cheek turned her face toward the nursery window. She forced herself to concentrate. The nurse, holding the baby, watched the mother's expression as she looked into the round face, eyes pinched tight, the little nose pressed flat into a red, softfleshed face, dark hair curled tightly to her head. "She weighs nine pounds and thirteen ounces," the doctor said, and the mother smiled weakly, breathed.... "She's beautiful!" The nurse' with a deft hand, turned back the blanket to reveal the wrinkled, red, freshly washed little body. There!!! She saw but couldn't comprehend. She closed her eyes to shut out the sight and longed with all her heart to return to the safety of oblivion. Anywhere just to get away from now. She felt a tear slide down her cheek and raised a hand to conceal her face. "What happened?" she whispered, sick with grief. She felt the gentle pressure of a hand on her shoulder, and looking uP met the doctor's unflinching g@2€- THERE was such concern there that she felt sorry for him and guilty also that she was causing him such anxiety. "We don't know how or why these things happen," he said gently, "perhaps she'll be all right. We'll just have to wait and see." But she had again covered her face, seeking privacy- "You had better put her to bed," he directed softly. The table moved and she let herself sink back into blessed unawareness. She was dimly aware of gentle hands moving her, pillows flattened, and the warmth of heated blankets tucked around her. Someone was crying, somewhere. Such heartbroken sobs. She wished they would stop. She didn't like to hear anyone CrySomething terrible must have happened, she thought. She opened her eyelids with great effort and discovered with surprise that it was she crying. She f her turned toward the sanctuary of the wall and invited the soothing balm of semi-consciousness again, but it was gone. It wouldn't return. SO, there was to be no going back. What was ahead? It had finally happened to her. She, too, had given birth to an imperfect child. That PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE a fact, but would it live? If it did, then what? Had J d? Had? What would he think? There were too many questions. She closed her eyes and hid her face in the pillow. Immediately she saw the baby. She opened her eyes frantically. She would not feel the same way about this baby as she had the others. She would not love it or get attached to it, that was her, if the baby the loss wouldn't be so good. Enough? She fell back and again turned her Weariness, physical and emotional, overcame her and she drifted gently awayA hand on her shoulder, 4 brown eyes searchingly, she knew immediately that they h told him. « Another girl, huh?" Hal grinned. "When are you going to add a little variety to this family d to smile but perately pulled him close. She couldn't bear to have even him see the hurt in her face. He drew back in alarm. "Hey, honey, what's the matter?" He slipped an arm under 277 APRIL 1964 hd her shoulders and pulled her close. "There's something wrong with our baby," Clara sobbed brokenly, then quickly closed her eyes to shut out the sight of his face gone suddenly white; the sick look of fear that tightened the corners of his mouth. He held her close, wordlessly, for a moment. "Well, honey," Hal pushed the damp curls back from her face with gentle fingers, '"we wondered if sooner or later something would be wrong with one of them, didn't we?" She nodded jerkily, swallowing hard. They had discussed it. "But not this one," she pleaded desperately, "please, not this one."' They clung together silently until the misery that had filled the room gently subsided. "Have you seen the pediatrician yet?" SNio:"' "Let's wait and see what he says." He bent to kiss her cheek. "Now, don't feel so badly... It's nothing we could have helped." He answered her unspoken question. "Things will work out, you'll see." He laid her against the pillows and straightened up, holding her hand so tightly the wide gold wedding band cut into her fingers. "I'll be right back. I'm going down to see her." He was back in five minutes. SHE's cute, isn't she?" Clara smiled through her tears. At least some things weren't so different. "She'll be all right,'"' Hal predicted and she tried to absorb some of his confidence. "She's big and strong, and even if it 278 means an operation she'll be able to stand it." She cringed, miserable at the thought of an operation on such a small body. After a prolonged silence her husband began to speak hesitantly. Struggling to eradicate the thought of an operation, she followed his words carefully, praying for distraction. "I met Grant Fuller down the hall," he spoke slowly, thoughtfully. '"Irene's here. They had their baby today, too." He hesitated, undecided, then continued, "Tt died a half hour ago." She lay there stunned. Becoming aware that her teeth were so tightly clenched they ached, she relaxed with effort. "She was born under the covenant, so they, at least, know they'll have her in the hereafter," he concluded. Suddenly her arms felt so empty they ached. The hereafter's too far away, she thought in a panic. My baby's just down the hall and I want her now. But how long would she be there? At least Grant and Irene knew. Ahead of her was what? A crippled child? Would she require so much attention that the rest of the family would suffer neglect? She suddenly realized what a pathetically weak person she was. What was ahead for them? She couldn't face any of it. "At least we can hope," Hal answered her unspoken question. But what was hope? It could be a deceiving liar, luring her toward happiness, then abruptly plunge her to the very depths of despair. She shook her head in silent rebellion. NO!! She'd not be lured into that trap. "You know these things happen to teach us something," he insisted, watching her face intently. "Yes," -she agreed, "I know that," her forehead wrinkled, "but what? What?" He shrugged, absently rubbing the back of her hand with his thumb. Hla looked at the telephone beside her bed. "You should call your mother." "T know I should," she replied wearily, "but she'll ask 'Is everything all right?' and then what do I say? We don't even know if the baby will live or not. Besides mother has enough to worry about with Janet.' He nodded reluctantly. Janet, her little niece, was suffering from an incurable disease. The little girl's grandmother, with gentle hands, performed for Janet many tasks and helped Janet's mother so the little girl had not gone into a hospital. Clara, on the other hand, had always regarded Janet as 'someone who deserved to be loved but harbored a deep feeling of guilt because in spite of this conviction, the wandering, innocent, baby eyes, aimlessly seeking hands, and the unintelligible utterings of a child of ten years had frightened her. She had been relieved to move to another city. Now what? Would her baby be another Janet to the family? More of the same arguments... The whole confusing conflict all over again? "No," Clara said decisively, "T can't call her yet... Maybe tomorrow," she half promised before he left. That night, the pediatrician, whom she had known for twelve PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE years, was a stranger at the foot of her bed. The concern in his face told her befére he did the results of his examination in the nursery. Cara again felt guilty that she had brought a less than perfect babe into the world and was causing still another person such obvious concern. She smiled encouragement. "T've seen the baby," his eyes were steady. She waited. "The big question is whether her body is capable of functioning and only time will answer that.'' The smile left her face. She had counted on him to reassure her. "Are you going to nurse her?" His question plopped in the awkward silence. She avoided his eyes. "T don't know," she murmured miserably. "Why don't I know?" she asked herself desperately. She had nursed the others. There had been no question then. "But this one is different,' she excused herself. "If I nurse her and she dies, then what?'' The physical pain would be just another reminder of her loss. I couldn't stand it, she thought wildly. What if they decided the baby could not leave the hospital when she did, then what? So many problems, was there no end? She pressed her hands to her throbbing temples. Was there no. Way out of this trap? "I don't know!" she repeated defiantly into the strained silence. "You have plenty of time to decide," the pediatrician assured her mildly. "T've arranged with the nursery to show you your baby when- 279 APRIL 1964 ever you want to see her," he said kindly. She nodded and murmured a thank you, but she knew in her heart that she wouldn't go. Perhaps, given time, she would be able to forget what she looked like. No... She would not go see her. The less she had to do with the baby the better for her. She wouldn't get attached to her. Night passed in drugged, fitful slumber, awakening to awareness and willing herself back into oblivion... Blessed oblivion... Peaceful... Unthinking... Uncomplicated oblivion. But with the coming of day her period of respite ended. "Do you want the news of your baby's birth published in the newspapers?" an impersonal nurse inquired, her pencil poised. Clara looked up in surprise. They had never asked her that before. Were they so sure it wouldn't live? What would she tell the children?... They had waited so long with the little bed so carefully made up. How did you tell them there was no baby to put init...? "You don't have to if you don't want to," the nurse avoided her eyes as she prodded her toward a decision. She thinks I'm ashamed of my baby, the mother suddenly realized with a deep sense of shame. But was being a coward a better virtue? How selfish she had been. She should have been thinking of her husband and children and trying to make the situation more bearable for them, but she had made herself the biggest problem. 280 o... Her first concern should have been for the tiny baby down in the nursery whom she had been so deliberately ignoring. She felt a sudden sense of release. It had never occurred to her not to acknowledge the birth of the baby. "Of course I want it published," she replied firmly, and the poised pencil made its mark and left. She thought of the tiny girl down the hall. If she, her own mother, wouldn't claim and love her, who would? She had the right, perfect or not, to be loved and cared for by her mother whether she lived one day, one week, or whatever time she had. Clara looked up as the doctor entered the room followed by a nurse carrying her baby. She had seen the baby only the once since it was born and now, as she looked into her small face and laid a gentle finger against the softest cheek she had ever touched, her heart ached with love and compassion. "May I hold her?" The nurse, after a nod from the doctor, handed her the baby. Her cheeks flushed with shame as she realized that they, too, had misunderstood her cowardice. She looked into the small closed-up face, and wondered how long... Today... Tomorrow... One week... It didn't matter.. This was her baby. If she just lives two weeks, then I'll be sure, she made herself the vain promise. "'She seems to be in good order internally," the doctor volunteered encouragingly. The mother's eyes left the baby face and looked up into his searchingly. Here was more than she had dared hope for. She clutched the pink bundle against her, pressing her cheek to the face of the sleeping infant. Tears slid down her cheeks, and in spite of herself, she sobbed. She felt the baby taken from her and firm hands put her to bed. A capsule was pressed into her hand. She cried steadily until the drugged pillow that softens all emotions put her to sleep. That evening Clara looked down at the dark head pillowed on her arm. The satin cheeks were dimpling rhythmically as the baby nursed. Her small fingers closed around Clara's thumb. With a gentle hand she stirred the tight, dark curls. Placing her daughter against her shoulder, she patted the tiny back. Through the blanket she could feel the row of safety pins holding a binder securely around the small body. She smiled as she felt the soft brush of warm breath... That precious breath PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE of life... And her heart filled with gratitude for having her to hold one more day. Suddenly she saw beyond the physical imperfection of her baby and knew what it was that must be learned. She held the baby from her and looked at her intently. Her thoughts turned to her other children. She didn't love any one of them, more or less, according to his physical condition. The spirit within shaped them and made them who and what they were.: How could she have been so blind? First about little Janet and then her own baby. Now she could understand her mother's stubborn devotion to Janet's care. She, with greater wisdom, had seen beyond that tortured little body and loved the precious, innocent soul that was held captive within. Gathering her daughter into her arms, carefully so as not to awaken her, Clara held her close to her heart and reached for the telephone. Desert in Springtime Ethel Jacobson Here are dusty creek beds, Stones, and burning sand, But spring comes tripping bravely To this forbidding land. Seeds lie quiet, waiting The fleeting kiss of rain, Then magically blossom To carpet dune and plain. Poppy, mariposa, Verbena, lupine, broom — No one knows spring truly Till he sees the desert bloom! 28) Ws Forgiving Wan Viola Ashton Candland _... And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him. - - (Luke 23:33). How callously they nailed him to the cross, Quite unaware this dreadful, dreadful deed Was prophecy fulfilled, believing loss Of life would mean the end of him. No seed Of blame could root in Christ, where true love grew To bear its fruits upon the cross and plead, "Forgive them for they know not what they do," And stand as an example and a creed. The nails — the cross —~ the thorny crown — the 'scorn Intended in the sign for all to read — Unto this very hour he was born, Redeemer of the world, a King indeed; And agony and blood could not erase The mark of godhood printed on his face. * * * A callous world still nails him to the cross With spikes of unbelief and hate and greed; And frivolous, indifferent hands still toss Away his gift of love as if the need For it did not exist. The precious words That tell how Jesus came to earth to bleed And die that man might live, are wasted chords In cynics' ears and hearts that will not heed. Ah, world, which largely, yet, profanes his name, How long before repentant hearts will plead For that same love which once was put to shame, And pray that he, again, will intercede, And know that he looks down at us today In that same sorrowing, forgiving way? Be Yourself Betty G. Spencer THERE," sighed Laura with relief, as she deftly polished the last bit of nickel on the big "Home Comfort" range. Her stepmother's kitchen was well kept and tidy. Aunt Em _ took pride in a neat house, and she and Laura had taken particular pains to see that everything was just right today. Reluctant to finish the task, Laura brushed the cloth across the warming oven until she could see her face in the polished metal. Plain, she thought, just plain. Her thin face looked a bit pale below the heavy coronet formed by her light brown braids. "If time would just stand still for a few hours," she said to herself. But she knew it wouldn't. She would have to face it, there was just no other way. This was the morning Brother William Barker was coming to watch her set a batch of bread. She had heard of young women having to do strange things to get a husband, but Brother William's request did beat all. Papa had scolded her before he left for the fields this morning. \ \ ~~ i ie Bay "Brother William has my permission to call," Papa reminded her, "and besides, Laura," he had chided, "it's about time you began thinking of marrying. You'll never find a better catch, and Brother William is a fine, upstanding young man." That settled things as far as Papa was concerned, and Laura didn't know but what he was right. The Thomas clock chimed the half-hour. Aunt Em looked up anxiously from the worktable as she placed prints of newly churned butter in an earthen crock. "Laura, dear," "you'd best hurry." Nervously, Laura put away her cleaning cloth as the rusty hinge she urged, 283 APRIL 1964 on the front gate squeaked its warning. "Aunt Em," she said in a small tight voice, "he's here!" "Now, Laura," Aunt Em soothed, placing her hand on Laura's arm, "'just do your best and everything will go fine. Just be yourself, child." "Yl try, Aunt Em, I'll try," Laura replied. "I'll take the crock to the spring house and be right in." She could hear Aunt Em greet their guest as she closed the kitchen door softly and hurried down the path. She pulled the wooden peg and swung the heavy door wide, letting the bright morning sun make checkered patterns on the hard-packed dirt floor. Quickly she placed the butter crock in the screened food safe, and took one last admiring look at the cut glass plate on the top shelf. Neat rows of daintily decorated cup cakes were ready to be served at refreshment time. Aunt Em had discouraged Laura about making the fancy pastries, but Laura insisted she wanted to go to the trouble, and had been finishing the last of the decorating when Aunt Em arose this morning. "Tl show William that I can serve the fanciest cakes in Spring City," she reassured herself. "T'll bet they are as delicate and tasty as any he ever had back in St. Louis, too." There was time for only a quick pat at the wisps of hair that escaped the bone hairpins, as she tidied herself at the marble washstand. Secretly, Laura had been longing to cut her hair, just 284 a bit, and use rag curlers to do her hair in the fashionable ringlet style, but Papa would never permit it. Laura doffed the wrinkled coverall and tied her best embroidered half apron about her slender waist. She had best not dawdle. She could hear Aunt Em and William talking in the sitting room. Laura entered the room quietly. Brother Barker crossed the sitting room in four long strides and clasped her hand in a crushing handshake. "Brother Barker," she smiled, "how nice to see you." "Good morning, Sister Laura," he replied, his blue eyes sparkling merrily. "I've just been telling Sister Grant how grateful I am that you would let me come this morning." This morning, Laura thought, this very morning, and all the witty, clever sentences she had practiced last night, left her completely. The force of Brother Barker's greeting brought fresh doubt about the next few hours. It was hard, knowing that William had been courting several other young ladies. Now it was Laura's turn, and it wouldn't have been so bad, except that she was in love with William. From the first time - she had noticed him sitting so attentively at sacrament meeting that Thursday evening, six months ago, she had hoped that he would find it possible to return the affection she felt for him. William had _ been walking Laura home from church for several months, now, but he occasionally walked other young ladies home, too, and Laura could never tell how William really felt about her. Yesterday, however, he had asked Papa for permission to visit today, and to take Laura to the harvest ball, which was to be held tonight in the new social hall. EvreryonE knew that William was looking for a wife to share the new frame home which had just been built near his small mercantile store. William's only mention of marriage, though, had been to tell Laura that his mother, back in St. Louis, had written to tell him the qualities he should seek when choosing his companion. Aunt Em chatted easily about the weather, and William was soon telling them about his latest letter from his mother. "A very unusual woman, my mother," William declared. Aunt Em turned the conversation to the coming Sunday School picnic, as Laura brought her supplies from the small, dark pantry. Laura felt more at ease in the kitchen, and set to work gratefully. Flour, sugar, salt, lard, and the precious bottle of potato "start" soon filled the checkered oil cloth on the round table. Last evening, Sister Barratt had put a generous amount in the small bucket Laura carried so she had far more "start" than she usually received in trade for her two cups of flour. The "start" was foamy and light as she poured it into the center of the flour, which had been sifted in the large, tin dishpan, bright with lead patches BE YOURSELF that bore silent testimony of its constant use. Almost automatically, Laura added the other ingredients and began to knead the dough. Kneading was a pleasant task which Laura enjoyed. There were times when she had kneaded with vigor, when thinking out a problem. She realized with a start that she was kneading extra vigorously now, but wondering just why William had wanted to see her set the bread was most upsetting. Laura loved to cook, and it must be that William loved to eat, going out of his way, as he was doing, to see what kind of bread she made. But there must be more to it than that. He could have just asked to taste a slice or two, goodness knows she made enough, keeping the big family supplied. Aunt Em and Brother William sat in rockers by the window, but Laura felt that they were both right at her elbow. William watched carefully, and the polite conversation came to an _ uncomfortable standstill as Laura kneaded. THE silence in the kitchen was broken as the front gate swung violently. The rusty _ hinge squeaked briskly in the quiet room, as the gate was shut with a snap. "Now who could that be, of a weekday morning?" mused Aunt Em. Almost before they could wonder, they were greeted by the scent of rose sachet. Only one girl in the village of Spring City had gathered enough rose petals 285 APRIL 1964 to use the sachet so lavishly. It couldn't be, but it was. "Why, Cousin Julie, what a surprise," said Aunt Em, as Julie swept into the room. "I didn't know you had returned from Salt Lake City." "Just last night," Julie replied as she turned to Laura, who smiled a greeting. "I had so much to tell Laura about the city, that I thought I'd run over and spend the morning." She glanced at Brother Barker, who had stood to greet her, and then at Laura, "I hope I haven't come at an inconvenient time." "Of course not, Julie, we're always glad to have you," said Laura. Julie was soon seated in Brother William's rocker, as he pulled a straight-back chair from the table for himself. Laura's slender fingers trembled as she went on with her work. The elation of the task was gone. Julie talked animatedly about her trip to the city, with Aunt Em and William captivated by her lively chatter. Her starched petticoats rustled softly as she bent to take baby Katie from Aunt Em. Katie's fat little fingers mussed the elaborate switch Julie had carefully pinned across her smooth crown, releasing an auburn cascade of ringlets. Laura knew it had taken at least an hour to curl the ringlets around some patient sister's finger. Laura could contribute little to the conversation, as William and Julie compared travel experiences and acquaintances in Salt Lake City and in St. Louis, 286 where Julie had visited last summer. ArT last, the bread was kneaded down for the last time, and Laura placed the large black pans side by side on the table and molded the loaves expertly. Soon eight loaves were rising under clean dish towels, and Aunt Em nodded that Laura should begin serving refreshments, while she seated the guests on the shady side porch. Laura hurried down the springhouse steps, glad to get out of the kitchen. The rose sachet was almost overpowering; Julie, herself, was almost overpowering. Julie, she thought, so elegant and lovely. How could any man resist her? Laura felt dowdy in comparison. Her checked gingham was starched and clean, and had been carefully fitted by the local seamstress, Mrs. Clark, but it looked shabby next to Julie's second-best merino. "Well, that's that," Laura. Julie could charm the birds right out of the trees, and Laura was sure she had _ charmed William right out of any ideas he might have had about wanting her as his wife. She would just serve the fresh buttermilk and the pastries, and William could get out of her life forever. She was glad the morning was over. She felt such a failure. She bit her lip to keep back the impending tears, and tried to console herself with the thought that William wasn't the only man in Sanpete County. Tabitha, Julie's big tortoisesighed colored cat, had followed her across the yard and leaped down the steps ahead of her. "Scat, Tabitha," Laura exclaimed. But Tabitha was in the room as soon as the door was opened, staring at Laura from her perch atop the food safe. Just as Laura lifted the cut glass plate, Tabitha jumped down, bumping Laura's arm and sending pastries and plate to the hard-packed dirt floor. Laura's heart sank with the cakes. "Oh, Tabitha," she scolded, "what will I ever do now?" William and Julie and Aunt Em were waiting on the side porch, and she knew that the conversation had turned from the doings in Spring City, to the social season in Salt Lake City, where Julie was to spend the winter with her grandparents. She couldn't serve plain buttermilk, not with William and Julie used to such elegant refreshments. Laura put her hand against the safe and pondered. Everything took so much time — all but one thing. There was nothing else to serve. Resolutely, Laura climbed the steps and crossed the dooryard. Entering the kitchen, she shook the grate briskly and put two pieces of wood in the big range. The fire blazed up quickly. She pushed the black skillet over the front lid and spooned lard into it swiftly. "Plain food," she muttered to herself. "Just like me. I'll be myself," she cried, "plain and practical." Laura cut strips of dough from a loaf rising in one of the long pans, frying them quickly in the BE YOURSELF skillet. As she removed the scones from the skillet, she sprinkled them with a bit of sugar, split them and spread them generously with butter and currant jelly. The tears of frustration were gone, and resignation filled Laura's heart as she placed the scones on a neat tray. Frosty glasses of buttermilk clinked sharply as she served her guests. "Scones, how delightful," chirped Julie. But it was plain that she had been expecting something fancier. William reached for a third scone before turning to Laura. "Delicious, Laura, simply delicious," he complimented. "My mother makes excellent scones, but these are the best I have ever tasted." Laura smiled. Mrs. Barker's cooking ability was of little concern to her right at that moment, since this was the first time that William had called her anything except Sister Grant or Sister Laura. The Thomas clock struck eleven. William stood up rather awkwardly, saying, "I must get back to the store, Laura, but I've had a very enjoyable morning." He looked at Aunt Em, who looked at Katie, nodding in Julie's lap. "It's time for Katie's nap," said Aunt Em. "Come, Julie, you can help me get her down." Julie would have remained on the porch, but Aunt Em had her by the arm and into the house before she could protest. "Laura," said William softly, "T hope you understand that I was just following my mother's instruction, in asking to watch 287 APRIL 1964 you set a batch of bread. Before I left St. Louis, I promised Mother that I would follow her recommendations when it came time for me to choose a wife. You meet every qualification, Laura, and it would give me great pleasure if you would consent to be my wife." "But, Papa..." Laura began. "He gave me permission to speak to you about it last night," William replied, drawing a small box from his coat pocket. Before she knew quite what was happening, William had placed a ring on the appropriate finger. "T hope it pleases you, Laura," he said. Laura looked at the lovely pearl, surrounded by small rubies. "Oh, William," cried Laura, "I accept." * * * Laura and William were the center of attention at the Harvest Ball. Laura proudly allowed her friends to see her lovely ring, and William acknowledged the hearty congratulations with obvious pleasure. As Laura prepared to enter the house later that evening, William gently lifted her chin to the pale light coming from the sitting room window and sealed the engagement with a tender kiss. In the circle of his arms, Laura asked rather hesitantly, '"William," she began, "you may think me rather bold, but could you tell me what qualities you found in me that your mother required?" "Laura, Laura," he _ smiled, holding her hands in his. ""Mother gave only two requirements, and you met them both. I was to watch you set a batch of bread, so that I could see if you would knead the flour around the pan into the dough. If a woman is thrifty in small things, she'll be thrifty in all things, according to my mother. I was to choose a girl who would be satisfied with plain food and plain living until I can earn a better income in my store. The second requirement was the easiest. I was to love the girl with all my heart." "Oh, William," Laura cried gaily, "I can hardly wait to meet your mother. She sounds like a wonderful person." "Most unusual," smiled William. "William," mused _ Laura, "there's one thing I must have when we begin housekeeping." "Just name it," said William, "and I'll do my best to get it for you." "T'd like a tortoise-shell cat," replied Laura. "It will help to re-— mind me always to be myself!" Gift Apron Beulah Huish Sadleir Spring is in the pocket, Summer in the thread, Blue — to catch the moonbeams, When al! But love is dead. 288 Application Louise Murray Tree women once went shopping. Each one bought a well-equipped sewing basket. The first woman took hers home, and put it carefully away for future use, then proceeded with her normal, daily tasks. She became so busy with the routine things of life, that after awhile she forgot about her purchase, and never did get it out and use it. The second woman brought her basket home, and sat down to admire it. She sat looking at the lovely colored threads, the bright needles, the pretty buttons, and the sharp scissors. She thought wistfully of all the beautiful things she would sew — fashionable dresses, embroidered linens, bazaar aprons, and so many more articles. But she daydreamed so long, that she never did have time to do the things she thought about before it was time to turn to other occupations. The third woman took her sewing basket home, and sat down to use it. Small toes were warm because of her fast-flying darning needle. Her happy husband found his buttons sewed on and his shirt collars mended. Because of her industry, her home was lovely with drapes, linens, tea towels, and other products of her skill. The woman herself felt the thrill of accomplishment because she made use of the tools she had bought. When you come to Relief Society and listen to the lesson, to which of these ladies can you be compared? Do you come, listen, and forget? Do you come, listen, and ponder? OR do you come, listen, and apply the gospel truths you hear to your life, brightening not only your life, but the lives of those around you? The Heavens Proclaim Veda G. Linford Above my bed the pointed pines and firs, Shadowed against the slowly darkening sky, Stand guard. Venus, the early evening star Alone bids me goodnight. The murmuring stream enchants me and | sleep. The rustle of a deer feeding at night, The snapping of dry twigs arouses me, | wake to see God's glory in the sky, And earth, turning to meet tomorrow's sun, Seems to be hanging motionless in space. As heaven's pageant drifts toward the west The milky way draws filmy gossamer Across the sky. Now all the trees topping the rim of hills Are filled with twinkling stars. The crescent moon For a brief moment rests on the slender tip Of a tall fir. All this is mine because a moving deer — A crackling branch — awoke me in the night. Spring Fashion Vesta N. Fairbairn. Brown hills Wear pale new grass Like overskirts of tulle With scattered jewels of lupine, Poppies. The Home Stimulus Eva Willes Wangsgaard The sun cut through the fog just now And glistened on the rime, Translating every lucent bough Beyond this place and time, A breath-arresting spectacle, Heart-lifting epilogue To a theme too gray. Now all is well. The sun cut through the fog. Part Vi—-Make the Most of Economical Cuts of Meat Sadie O. Morris Meat not only is one of the most universally liked foods, but is an excellent source of certain important nutrients. It is valued for the good quality proteins, minerals, and water-soluble vitamins it contributes to the diet. Taste appeal places meat high on the market list; generally it is the first item chosen when planning a menu. Meat is usually judged on the basis of tenderness, juiciness, and flavor. Tenderness is an important factor contributing to the palatability of meat. Certain cuts of meat derived from any animal are relatively less tender than others. The most tender cuts always lie along the backbone and ribs, the less tender parts coming, as a rule, from the shank, shoulder, neck, and under parts of the body. The less tender cuts of meat include sections of muscles that are exercised as the animal walks and grazes. These muscles contain a large proportion of well-developed connective tissue which, unless modified by cookery processes, contributes to toughness. The less tender cuts of meat require the use of moist heat. Moist heat softens the connective tissues making it more tender. These cuts of meat may also be made more tender by pounding, grinding, or cubing. Tenderness of meat is also affected by the temperature at which it is cooked, tenderness increasing with lower temperatures. The lower cooking temperatures retain the juice and flavor of meat and reduce shrinkage. Use of less tender cuts of meat lends interest to the meal because of the great variety of ways these cuts may be prepared. Variety meats, which are the organs, such as liver and heart, are especially high in nutritive value. In addition, they are comparatively low in cost, making them valuable additions to lowcost menus. 291 APRIL 1964 SWISS STEAK 2 Ibs. Round or chuck steak, cut into 1-inch thick pieces Ya «. Sifted flour 2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Pepper % c. Fat 2 c. Canned tomatoes % ¢. Onion, chopped Y% tsp. Paprika Combine flour, salt, and pepper; pound into steak, using edge of knife. Slowly brown steak in hot fat in Dutch oven or deep skillet. Combine tomatoes, chopped onion, and paprika in a small boiler; heat to a boil; pour over steak. Cover. Simmer or cook in a moderate oven (350°) for 1% hours. Yield: 6-8 servings 2% Ibs. Short ribs Y% e. Flour Y tsp. Salt % tsp. Pepper 2 tbsp. Fat Y% c. Onions, minced 1 bay leaf Y% ¢. Water % c. Milk Roll the short ribs in the flour, seasoned with the salt and pepper. Brown the short ribs and onions in the fat. Add the water and bay leaf and simmer slowly for 1 hour. Add the milk for gravy and simmer about 10 minutes more. Season gravy to taste. Yield: 4 servings 2% \bs. Short ribs 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 1 ¢. Beef broth from a beef bouillon cube % c. Cider vinegar Ye ¢«. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Vegetable oil 1 tbsp. Ground ginger 1 tsp. Accent 1 tbsp. Soy sauce Ya tsp. Salt Brown the short ribs in fat and arrange in a deep baking dish. Combine the remaining ingredients and pour over the short ribs. Bake in a moderately slow oven (350°F) until the meat is tender — about 1% hours. Yield: 4 servings 292 PORCUPINE MEAT BALLS 1 Ib. Ground beef Ya c. Rice, cooked for 5 minutes 1 tbsp. Minced onion tsp. Salt can tomato soup c. Water tbsp. Worcestershire sauce — etd Combine meat, cooked rice, onion, and salt. Mix well and form into balls. Place in a deep baking dish. Combine tomato soup, water, and Worcestershire sauce. Pour over meat balls. Cover dish, bake at 350°F for 1% hours. Serve hot and pour tomato sauce over the balls. Yield: 5-6 servings Ep_plipmepc Y% |b. Hamburger 1 c. Shredded raw potatoes 3 tbsp. Finely chopped onion 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Fat Mix together the hamburger, potatoes, onion, and salt. Form into 4 patties. Pan-fry in hot fat about 10 minutes on each side. Serve hot. Yield: 4 patties _DDErIICR LIARARIID CED 1 lb. Hamburger Y% tb. (2 cups) dried lima beans Y% tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Fat Barbecue Sauce: % ¢. Onion, sliced 2 tbsp. Sugar 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tsp. Salt Ya tsp. Chili powder % ¢. Catsup % c. Water Soak lima beans by boiling for 2 minutes, removing from the heat, and soaking for 1 hour (or soak the beans overnight). Cook the beans in boiling salted (44 tsp.) water until tender, about 2 hours. Combine barbecue sauce ingredients and simmer 15 minutes. Brown the hamburger in the hot fat. Place cooked lima beans, hamburger, and sauce in alternate layers in a 2-quart casserole. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 45 minutes. Yield: 6-8 servings BARBECUED LIVER AND ONIONS 1 Ib. Liver % c. Chopped onion 2 tbsp. Fat Y% tsp. Pepper Ve tsp. Salt 1 c. Tomato juice 3 tbsp. Flour Brown liver and onions in the fat. Add the seasonings and flour to the tomato juice, and stir. Pour over the liver and onions. Simmer 30 to 40 minutes. Yield: 4-5 servings MARINATED BROILED LIVER 1 tb. Beef liver ¥2 Ib. Bacon (optional) W% ¢. Vinegar % «. Salad oil 1% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Pepper Slice liver into % inch slices. Cut into 1-inch strips. Mix vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper together. Marinate the liver strips in the French dressing mixture for one hour. Wrap each strip in bacon secured at ends with toothpicks. Broil 10 minutes. Yield: 4 servings Note: Liver may be broiled without the bacon by rubbing fat on the surface before broiling. BRAISED LIVER WI 1% lbs. Sliced liver flour 2 tbsp. Fat 3 c. Carrots 3 c. Celery % c. Onion 1 tsp. Salt Ya tsp. Pepper 1 ¢. Water Dredge liver well with flour. Brown in hot fat. Clean and dice vegetables. Arrange in layers over the slices of liver. Season and add water. Cover and simmer slowly until both the vegetables and the liver are done. Beef liver will take about 45 minutes; pork, lamb, or veal liver about 30 minutes. Yield: 8 servings TAAICUC ee U (two variations) To cook tongue: 1 tongue THE HOME — INSIDE AND OUT water 1 large onion 1 tbsp. Whole cloves, sliced 2 bay leaves Wash tongue and cover with water. If it is a fresh tongue add 2 tsp. Salt. Add onion, cloves, and bay leaves. Cover and simmer until tender, allowing 1 hour to the pound. Remove skin and trim. Recipe No. 1 1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed Ya ¢. Diced onions 1 ¢. Diced carrots % c. Diced celery 3 tbsp. Flour small amount of water 1% c. Liquid in which the tongue was cooked 1 tsp. Salt Y% tsp. Pepper Cut the cooked, skinned, and trimmed tongue into cubes and place in pan with diced onions, carrots, and celery. Make a smooth paste of flour and small amount of water. Gradually add liquid and seasonings to the paste. Pour over tongue and vegetables. Simmer for 1 hour. Yield: four Ibs. Of tongue will serve 12. TAMAT hie Wher: turoDpyv ecalirr Recipe No. 2 1 tongue, cooked, skinned, and trimmed % ce. Fat V2 tsp. Salt 1 bay leaf % c. Brown sugar 1% c. Cherries, canned or cooked 1 c. Liquid in which the tongue was cooked Y2 sliced lemon Slice the tongue and place in a pan with the remaining ingredients. Simmer for 20 minutes. Yield: a four-pound tongue serves 12. 1 beef heart 1 8-ounce package noodles Ya c. Fat 2 c. Water 2 tsp. Salt Y2 tsp. Pepper Sweet-Sour Sauce: 2 tbsp. Fat 293 cA cr nian) «alsinanaia ~ ae APRIL 1964 2 tbsp. Flour 2 c. Liquid in which heart was cooked 4 tbsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 1 bay leaf Y% tsp. Thyme 2 whole cloves V2 tsp. Salt Y% tsp. Pepper Wash and trim the heart. If it has been cut, sew into original shape. Cook the noodles in boiling salted water. Drain and combine with one-half of the fat. Fill heart with cooked noodles and save the rest to be heated and served with the heart. Brown the heart on all sides in the remaining fat. Add the water and season with salt and pepper. Add more water during cooking, if necessary. Cover tightly and cook until tender. The average heart (3% Ibs.) will require about four hours for cooking. Remove the heart from the liquid and make the Sweet-Sour Sauce. Melt the fat, add flour, and stir until smooth. Gradually add the liquid, stirring constantly. Cook until thick. Add the vinegar, sugar, and seasonings. Return the stuffed heart to the sauce and simmer for 15 minutes. Serve the heart on a platter with remaining noodles. Remove the bay leaf and cloves from the sauce and serve in a gravy boat. Yield: a 3% lb. Heart serves 12. Empty Nest Ida Elaine James All of you now are gone, and | Wake each day with a lonely cry: "Good morning, dears! | am loving you," My heart calls out the long day through. | ask: ''How did you spend your day?" Each evening, and at dusk, I say: "What are you doing now?" | see You smiling over the miles to me. The whole day through I cry aloud: "How strong | am! How brave! How proud!" But when night comes, the heart lies bare, Shivering in the lonely air. | can only draw around my breast The cloak of memories, dear and blest; "Guard them, Lord!" I pray... ''I'm glad For all the beautiful years we had." 294 The Other Day Christie Lund Coles THE other day I went to the seemingly humble home of a widow I had known only casually for a short time. We visited for a little while in the living room and kitchen, where homemade bread was baking in the old-fashioned coal range. Later, we had the heel of a loaf, still warm, melting the butter to liquid gold, and honey, dripping amber magic. Before I left, she took me into her bedroom which, she said, was her prize. And prize, indeed, it was. There in stately age and beauty stood a massive old, old walnut bed. She said it had been brought across the plains by her grandparents. It was as smooth as brown silk. On top of it was an unusual crazy quilt spread, and on top of that were two pillow covers, made of silk and embroidered with the names of the two who had long ago slept in the bed. Near the bed stood the matching washstand, complete with the white china washbowl and water pitcher. Across the room was the dresser with its marble top and oil lamps. On the wall hung a picture made from human hair, and on a small table near the original platform rocker was a bowl of rose leaves, preserved with salt, and still fragrant after nearly a hundred years. Something I had never seen before was a long-haired rug which lay beside the bed. It was white and silky. I asked about it, and she told me that was to warm the feet of the "master of the house," when he stepped on the floor. It was made of goat's hair. The woman told me she had been offered good sums, by antique collectors, for everything in the room, but she had refused to sell. (Though, I am sure there had been many times when she had needed the money.) I left the home feeling that every home has its treasures, many of them, indeed, beyond price. An Evening Thought Catherine B. Bowles Lord, be kind and merciful to me That | may serve just thee. That every act and deed | do Will bring me nearer, Lord, to you. When darkness comes with setting sun And night is nigh and work is done, Let me feel that thou art near To bring me peace and soothe my fear. 295 How about a "GET IT DONE DAY'? Vera Stocker OF course I[ try to plan my homemaking tasks to accomplish them with the greatest possible efficiency and dispatch. If I didn't, I would be swamped by the countless demands on the time and strength of a "do-it-yourself" homemaker and mother of four school-age children. But even with a good workable schedule, I have found that many small tasks that need to be done and that I want to do, are put off, forgotten, or just plain neglected — things of seemingly little importance, but still have their place in a smooth-running household and a well-ordered family life. That is how Get It Done Day came to be an institution in our home. Yes, just that — a regular day set aside in which emphasis is put on doing many small, odd jobs, those "must-do-one-of-these-days" kind. Ours is the first weekday of each month, or as soon after as may be convenient. On that day I do the minimum of regular housework, hurrying through the breakfast dishes, beds, and dusting in double-quick time, and preparing easy-to-get meals. Then to the game, for I am not averse to a little playful competition between me and time. It adds interest to see just how many needed tasks I can accomplish before the day is done. There is a pleasant variety, too. This is the time for small jobs, but many — remember? 296 Likely I will have the oil can out. I have a habit of forgetting to oil certain small appliances. The kitchen screwdriver may be in use, too, and my spot cleaners for upholstery and wallpaper. A pleasant breeze may invite me to air all our blankets and pillows. It is a good time to wipe off all the light globes in the house — a job that should be routine and isn't with me. I will thin out our pile of magazines, tieing up those back numbers, then box up some discarded clothing of the children, arranging at once for delivery of both to places where they will be welcomed. I look at the bright new page on the calendar, and note that it is time for the check on Jamie's teeth, and remind myself to remind my husband to make the appointment for his annual physical examination. Oh, yes, some birthdays are in the offing. I will make certain decisions about these today instead of waiting until the eleventh hour, and I will take a look at my gift wrappings and greeting card supply. (A pencil and pad are handy, of course.) I will have other reminders, too — for instance, a check of the bathroom may show some nearly empty bottles and tubes, and other low supplies. If my household accounts are not up-to-date, now is the time, and I will also sort and file properly the recipes I have clipped. I hate to darn socks, but with my feet on the hassock, music on the radio, and a cool lemonade beside me, I will get to the bottom of that basket in a short time. Or, possibly, I will drop everything for an hour and make a call on that lonely, elderly woman down the street — something I have been meaning to do for a long time. With a little prodding, the children, after school, get into the getit-done spirit. 'The boys agree to clean the dog house, and even give Rover a bath, and straighten things up in the garage. One boy will enjoy checking the car door in regard to the next oil change. Joey rightly thinks it is a good time to remind me of the rip in his sleeping bag and an overnight Scout trip coming up. Sister may finally get Co a HOW ABOUT A "GET IT DONE DAY'? Her bureau drawers tidied, and with Scotch tape mend all the torn jackets on our books. Six-year-old Jan loves to paste all our loose trading stamps in the books so Mommie can get herself a present. Before bedtime I may have written that long-delayed answer to Great-Aunt Susan's last letter. And husband, dear old sport, not to be outdone, all by himself has noticed the drip of the kitchen faucet, and has made an iron-clad promise to fix it on Saturday. When I add my accomplishments to those of each member of the family, the total is often a pleasant surprise. No wonder our ten-year-old once said, "Mother, instead of "Get It Done Day," we ought to call it "Get Them Done Today." ry Oo It Was Springtime ey Oo Evelyn Fjeldsted One afternoon in the spring, I sat down and leaned my head against the trunk of an old apple tree. A foamy little irrigation stream was finding its way down the furrows and among the trees, making little dams of last year's leaves, each one finally breaking away and rushing downstream like a little floating island. A few furrows away a robin was walking step by step like a gentleman. He stopped suddenly and, with his head slightly on one side, peered closely at the ground. With a few sharp pecks a prize worm was his. A few ants were striving tirelessly to climb a damp furrow, only to fall back and be buried in the soil, while in the tangled roots a frog sounded his keynote at irregular intervals and met with no response. A little gray hawk aloft in the sky, tipped his wings and was gone. A hummingbird, like a bobbin with wings, wheeled over the tops of the trees. A small breeze whirled swiftly by, and apple blossom petals, like tiny pink saucers, floated on the water. This was all staged while a length of cloud material, like a soft warm blanket, was being unrolled overhead. I closed my eyes and fell asleep and was abruptly awakened by a splash of rain on my face. 297 Table Togetherness Last night after my small son had sat by the dining-room table coaxing me to play a word-game with him, I felt pangs of guilt because I had said, "I'm much too busy." While working at the task that kept me from my son, my thoughts wandered back to the times when I was a child and had played games with my Mother. I wondered how she had found the time to do so many things with us. I could see a happy family sitting around the table on a cold winter night. Two of us engaged in a game of ticktacktoe, someone reading a book or studying a lesson for school; the little ones coloring pictures, cutting paper dolls, or creating some piece of childish art from modeling clay. Now I had a mental image of five exuberant children, glowing faces, folded hands, waiting patiently for a piece of candy that Mother was making from maple sugar and black walnuts. We had all participated in cracking and picking out the nut meats the preceding night. I thought of the times we sat around the table watching Mother 298 Violet Nimmo cut out dresses for us, or helped us make doll clothes. Each of us took his or her place at the table when Mother read a recent letter from Aunt Suzy, or when we had a family discussion on finding the little culprit who had broken the hoe handle or, maybe, a blue willow cup. I visualized seven bowed heads around that old-fashioned round table, asking the Lord to bless the food of which we were about to partake. Perhaps the meal consisted of a pot of beans, corn bread, and a baked apple for dessert. The beans and corn had been harvested from our huge vegetable garden where we all shared many happy days of tilling and planting. Mother ground the corn in an old iron grinder. The apples came from our orchard off trees which were pruned, grafted, and tenderly cared for by our Father. Some people referred to him as Mr. Green Thumb, because he liked to make things grow. On special holidays, extra leaves were added to that old table. It wore the one and only snowy white linen tablecloth and was laid with our best china and the good silver. Table decorations were usually homemade nut cups, holding popcorn glazed with maple sugar, toasted hickory nuts, and bits of candied orange peel. Sometimes we made funny little men from apples or from various vegetables, and placed them beside each plate. The table groaned with the burden of tasty casseroles, spicy dressings, fowl, salads, homemade pickles and jellies, freshly baked fruit pies, and sugar cookies that Mother let us decorate to our own fancy, always remembering to tell us how exquisite they were. Sometimes we sat around the table drinking mugs of hot eggnog and listened to stories told by Mother or Father, while the burning wood crackled in the fireplace and bayberry leaves parched on the hearth. The mingling fragrance of nutmeg and bayberry mist was enough to create a festive mood. Occasionally, we gathered about the ROUND TABLE TOGETHERNESS table for an hour or two of song and harmony. Coloring eggs for Easter, or making frilly May baskets for May Day have given me many pleasant memories. Saturday mornings always found the old table loaded with large golden loaves of Mother's homemade bread and rolls. On Sunday it held our Sunday School and Church papers, and we all sat around while Father read from the old family Bible. MK OK ke Coming back to the present reality, I said to myself, this job can wait until tomorrow. "All right, son," I offered. "How about that game we were going to play? When we finish the game let's make some cookies and frost them with funny faces." I thought, perhaps tomorrow I will glaze some popcorn and candy some... Oh, dear! I do believe I have forgotten how to candy orange peel. Halfway Zara Sabin | stand at the summit of Halfway Hill... The road has not seemed long.... With laughter and tears | have met the years Or danced to a care-free song. | pause to look back at the green-clad hill — Its sunshine and utter peace throw The brightness of hope on the upward slope Of the way that | still must go. Though rocks and thorns beset the path That | sometimes wearily trod They will be as a wraith while | walk by faith Sustained by my trust in God. 299 Cover-ups for Older Tots Adelle Ashby SomeETIMEs middle-sized children need to wear some kind of a protection over their clothes when eating, but would rebel at the suggestion of a bib. On a Sunday, for instance, when you want your children to stay fresh and clean between meetings, it is a great convenience to have some kind of an aid at mealtime. Here are three "cover-up" ideas that are so eye catching and different, that the roughest, biggest, litthe cowboy in your family will love to wear one. CANDY CANE COVER-UP: The first cover-up is for the child just above the tiny tot in age. It is a candy-cane bib. The best material for this bib is a heavy terry cloth. If you have a worn bath towel, there is likely to be enough good material left to make this bib. To cut the candy-cane bib, first cut a rectangle of about twelve inches by fourteen inches. These bibs should be quite large, so as to cover well. Now cut a neck curve in the center of one of the 12" edges. The curve 300 should be about 41% inches wide, and about 114 inches deep at the lowest point. Bind the bib with bright red bias, leaving the neck curve. Now bind this curve with the same bias tape, leaving about ten inches on both ends for ties. To make the candy cane, take a ten-inch length of red rickrack and also a ten-inch length of white rickrack. Interlock the two colors so that they look braided. Make another smaller cane of seven-inch rickrack lengths. Now stitch them on the bib in a candycane shape, adding a bright red bow on each cane. Candy canes are Popular wit all h the Children at times of the | Protection. Cut a8 before. This > any little © proud to Wear it. embroidery work. She has been nselor and war, President. Present She is theology " -"4rs. Bowles kee an a Tactive and wel] Organized home and recently Celebrateq her fifty-firg, We ig anniversary. She is Well loved in her home valley for he any works of charity and Service. 302 Hazel M. Thomson Your Heart ce I\ J Understanding" ~ —<S Chapter 3 A Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, are traveling to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in a wagon train commanded by Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiancé has died at Winter Quarters, and Selena, in bitterness and sorrow, cannot be comforted. Belle, a large, strong woman, trades for a pair of Indian moccasins, and finding them too small for her, she sends Selena to offer them to Josiah who has injured his foot. Josiah attaches marital significance to the gift of the moccasins, according to an Indian custom. SELENA and Belle had just finished putting their dishes away after the evening meal when Josiah arrived. His hair was parted in the middle and _ combed smoothly. He was wearing his Sunday clothes. With the moccasins on his feet he walked with only a slight limp. Feeling that there was no need of beating around the bush, he came directly to the point. "I. Come courting," he said, looking straight at Belle. QW, a! \ bs "Oh!" she said, picking up the last of the pans and heading toward the wagon. She had been through similar experiences before and knew when it was her move. "I have to put these away, Selena. I'll be in the wagon." Josiah stepped directly in her path. "It's you I'm courting," he said. Belle dropped the pans she was carrying. The iron kettle fell with a thud, barely missing Josiah's sore foot. But Josiah did not budge. "Me?" gasped Belle. "Yes, you. Is that so all-fired 303 APRIL 1964 strange? Meaning no offense to you, Ma'am," he said, nodding politely toward Selena, "but I've been thinking about your sister these past few days, wondering how I could get up the courage to speak to her." His eyes turned back to Belle, standing open-mouthed _ before him. "And now, tonight, she goes and gives me all the encouragement any man would need." Belle, completely at a loss as to what to do in the face of his open admiration of her, stared. That look in his eyes, she had seen it many times before in the eyes of Selena's suitors, but never until now directed toward her. "Encouragement? Tonight? Me?" Her words didn't seem coherent. Neither did her whirling thoughts. "IT might have expected you to manage things right well, seeing as how you always do, but I was more than a mite surprised when Selena brought the moccasins. Where you heard about that old Indian custom I don't know, but it makes no difference. I thought we might go for a walk together and be back in time to start the dancing. Even with this sore foot I'm going to dance tonight!" "Indian custom? What...?" Selena took her dazed sister by the arm and led her toward the wagon. "This night air is a little cool. Belle had better get a shawl," she said. "T'll be waiting right here," said Josiah. "Don't be too long — honey." Belle choked. 304 "Selena!" she said. 'What's come over him? What happened?" "T don't know," Selena whispered back, "but pull yourself together. I'll get you my best shawl. Here, take my cornstarch bag and wipe the shine off your face. It will be good for you to be dancing for once, the way you sit here every night and tap your toes." Selena climbed back out of the wagon, draped the shawl around her sister's shoulders and smoothed Belle's hair. "There. You look lovely, Belle. Have a good time dancing." "Dancing! I think he wants to marry me!" Selena laughed gaily. For the first time in a long while she seemed more sure and more in control of the situation than Belle was. "Well, what would you think of that?" she asked. Belle actually trembled. "I think it would be wonderful," she said. "I had no idea Josiah could be so masterful." THE rest of the trip into the Great Salt Lake Valley was one of complete happiness for Belle. Josiah came every morning to yoke up her oxen for her. The first three mornings he came only to find them all ready to go. Selena took a hand then, suggesting that since Josiah so obviously wanted to help, that she wait the next morning and give him opportunity to do so. The look of satisfaction and pride on his face more than repaid Belle for the inactivity of waiting. The bond of friendship and understanding between Lon and Belle had deepened as he learned that Belle was to become the wife of his best friend as soon as they arrived in the Valley. "I knew you'd like Josiah, when you really came to know him," Lon said one afternoon as they followed the wagon road in the mountains, "everyone does. He's a fortunate man, Belle. I wish I were as lucky." "But you haven't said a word to Selena. How do you hope to learn how she feels if you never tell your own feelings, Lon?" "I know how she feels all right," said Lon, moving back by the wagon wheel and moving along beside it. "She leaves no doubt about that. I guess I could never measure up to him. He must have been pretty near perfect, Belle, for Selena to have loved him so much." "That's just it, Lon. He wasn't. He came into Nauvoo as a member of a gang of counterfeiters. It was a pretty good place for that sort of thing for awhile. Everything that happened was blamed on the Mormons. But after the saints moved out he moved on to Winter Quarters. I don't know what his next plan was, but you can be sure that he had one." Lon stepped up on the wagon tongue and swung himself up beside Belle. His voice was intense. "Belle! Are you sure of all this? How can Selena be so loyal to the memory of a man like that?" "It's simple. She doesn't know. I never found out about it until after his death, and then, quite by accident, I overheard some talk that wasn't meant for me." "But why didn't you tell her? Why let her go on tearing her heart out over a rascal?" YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "T had no proof. After I heard what I did, I inquired around a little. I was convinced that it was true but Selena would never believe me. Besides, she was so heartbroken, I had no wish to add to the sorrow she already felt." For a time there was only the sound of the wagon wheels on the rocky creek bed where the road lay at this point. Then Lon said, "Nor shall I tell her. If I can't win her love without that, perhaps I don't deserve to have it.": Nor until the last night on the trail before entering the Valley did Lon say anything to Selena. She had left her own wagon where Josiah and Belle were discussing their own future, in order to give them a measure of privacy, and Lon saw her walking alone past his own camp. "Selena!" he cried. "Oh! Hello, Lon," she answered and would have walked on, but he raised his hand for her to stop. "Is anything wrong?" he asked. "No. It's just that I'm always there, listening to whatever Belle and Josiah have to say to each other. I just felt they would welcome being alone once in awhile." Lon looked down at her. Her face was the most beautiful face he had ever seen. His _ heart pounded. "Selena, we'll be coming into the Valley tomorrow." "Ves." "T'm almost sorry the trip is ending." He moved near and stood beside her chair. She did not look up. 305 APRIL 1964 "T love you, Selena. When we reach the Valley I should like to have the privilege of calling." She did not answer and he waited, wondering if she had even heard. "Selena?" he said softly. "If you like," she said again, still not looking at him. A feeling of hopelessness swept over Lon. He had the impression that, had he even asked her to marry him, she would have said the same thing. Hie was to find himself confronted many times during that first winter in the Great Salt Lake City by her icy indifference. He continued to live in the wagon, while Josiah and Belle, after their marriage, which took place almost immediately after their arrival, were successful in obtaining a two-room log cabin that had been vacated. "How did we happen to be so lucky?" Belle asked when Josiah told her about getting a cabin without having to build. "There are lots of cabins empty right now," Josiah answered. "A goodly number of the saints have been called to make settlements in other places. The newest one, I hear, is to be named Peteetneet. How would you like it if we happened to be called?" The wagon trip west had been the happiest time of Belle's life. The thought of another one 'would be very agreeable to her. With the arrival of early spring Josiah and Belle became interested in joining the groups who were going to California. "Looks like we'll be going on, Selena," said Josiah, when the 306 decision had been made. "You will go with us?" Selena did not protest. If this was what Belle and Josiah wanted, it was not her place to interfere. Life held so little promise to her. After all, what difference would it make, here or there? "Where is the settlement to be made?" It was Belle, not Selena, who asked the question. "I don't exactly know," Josiah answered, "but Captain Jefferson Hunt and others who were in the Battalion have seen the land. They say it's the most beautiful place on earth, Belle! Sunshine and growing weather the whole year around. Why, we'll have a better farm than we could ever have, here in this desert." "But don't you even know the direction we will be traveling?" asked his wife. "Oh, I read the official bulletin from the First Presidency: 'A settlement is to be made at no great distance from San Diego, near Chino Rancho, close by the Cajon Pass.' That's the instructions. It won't be west from here. We'll be taking a southern route. Those that have seen it love the country down there. Some of them seem to feel that President Young made a mistake in stopping here in this place." JosAH found Lon to be a bit skeptical on more than one point of argument. "This is the place," he said. "President Young said so himself, and if this is where the Lord wants this people to be, then it seems to me that this is where we ought to stay. Besides, I've heard a little about that trail to California. The boys who were in the Battalion say there are miles of desert. You'll find out, Josiah, it is no grassy plain you'll be crossing." "What of it?" asked Josiah, "we'll have guides who know the road. They know just where to stop so there will be watering places, and a time or two when we have to carry water. That's all." "No, it's not all," said Lon. "President Young refused in no uncertain words to follow Sam Brannan in his scheme to move the saints to the Gold Coast. Now, a few years later, here we are planning to go right along anyway." "But this is different, Lon. This whole undertaking has the approval of the Authorities. We're not heading for the gold fields, nor anywhere near Sutter's Fort, but to make a settlement near the sea coast, from which missionaries going to the Islands of the Sea can be helped on their way, and those who return to this country can be _ received. Why, Lon, there are two of the apostles who have been assigned to lead this company." Lon turned quickly and faced his friend. "Now, I didn't know that, Josiah. Since when? Who are they?" "Since yesterday is all that I have known it, but both Brother Lyman and Brother Rich are going. Does that put a new light on things?" "It certainly does!" said Lon. "T hated to think of your going without me, but since it does not mean going against counsel, I'll be right along with you." YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING Durinc the remaining days of preparation Lon felt a_ great weight had lifted from him. The thoughts of Selena going on while he could not bring himself to join in the move had been depressing in the extreme. There were a few occasions, he felt, when he had seen a glimpse of the real Selena; once when their eyes first met, in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. Her grief had been new then, and her face not yet accustomed to the mask she now habitually wore. Again, on the day that she had taken the moccasins to Josiah, Lon had felt something of the warmth and beauty deep inside the girl which matched the loveliness of her features. Whether he could ever arouse any response in Selena to his own great affection, he did not know, but at least he was going to have ample opportunity to try. At last the day came for departure and they drove their wagons south, down the street of the fast-growing, thriving city. Everyone they passed waved, wishing them God-speed and success in the new colony to be built. It was thrilling and exciting to Belle, and Selena seemed to respond in a measure to the feelings of the others. As they neared the southern end of the valley where the mountains came close together, separating the Valley of the Great Salt Lake from the Valley of the Utahs, Selena accepted Lon's invitation to ride with him for a part of the afternoon. High on the wagon seat, her dark hair framing her face under her sunbonnet, Lon thought he 307 APRIL 1964 had never seen anything so beautiful. At that moment he felt that if he should ask her to marry him, she would accept. Yet, this was not what he wanted. He wanted Selena for his wife, yes. But he wanted the laughter, the gaiety, stored up within her; and most of all he wanted her love. THE organization of the wagon train was the same as that used in crossing the plains; that is, there were divisions of ten wagons, each with its commander; divisions of fifty, having a commander, and Brother Rich and Brother Lyman acting as general overseers of the entire company of one hundred fifty wagons. There were 588 oxen, 336 cows, 21 young stock, 107 horses, 52 mules, and 437 men, women, and children. "We'll have our own city as soon as we arrive," said Belle, looking back along the line of wagons, stretching miles behind them. "They won't all be staying in California, you know," replied Josiah. "Brother Parley Pratt and his group of missionaries will want to be on their way to the ocean and on to the South Sea Islands as soon as possible." "Still, it won't be a lonesome kind of life, with so many of the saints there. At least it will not be so for us, Josiah. We'll have a good life together, but it's Selena that bothers me. She hasn't attempted to make one friend yet in the entire wagon train." Josiah looked at his wife out of the corner of his eye. He waited as the wagon rode over 308 some rather large boulders before he spoke. "T've been meaning to tell you this, Belle,"' he said. "You know that young chap in the wagon just behind Lon's? Well, he has been mighty curious about Selena, almost from the first day out. Wanted to know whether she was married or promised or anything." "So!" exclaimed Belle. "That's why he's been spending so much time around our camp these last few evenings! He has his eyes on Selena! I might have known! Seems like it's been so long since she took any interest in a young man that I've become accustomed to having things that way." Belle reached out a hand to the lines Josiah held and pulled the team to a halt. "I've decided that my sister is not going to marry a complete stranger!" "Marry him! For goodness sake, Belle. As yet she doesn't even know the young man." '"That's what I said. A stranger. You know how she is, Josiah. She just doesn't care — not about anything these days. And if he proposed to her tomorrow, like as not she'd say yes. Well, I'm not taking the chance." BELLE moved on to the wagon behind Josiah's. He spoke to his team and they moved forward. Belle's mind was made up. There was no need in saying more and perhaps down deep Josiah agreed with what his wife planned to do. He realized his protest had been somewhat feeble. "Lon," said Belle, as she took his hand and climbed from the wagon tongue to the front of the wagon and took her seat beside him. "Do you want to marry Selena?" Lon looked at her, startled. "Don't joke with me, Belle. Not about that." "T'm not joking, Lon. I'm asking you, serious. Do you want to marry my sister?" "Belle!" For a moment there was hope and happiness in Lon's eyes. "She didn't...." Then he stopped. The hope had faded. "No, of course, she didn't say anything. For a moment I...." Lon stopped, embarrassed. "I know what you hoped. I have hoped so, too," said Belle, kindly. "But we've got to do something, Lon. There's a young man in camp who keeps asking Josiah all sorts of questions about her. He was at our campfire last night and the night before. He stayed YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING for hours last night, claiming he had to dry out his boots. I didn't catch on then, not until Josiah told me what had been happening whenever the young man gets around him. It's always something about Selena. She's so at loose ends, Lon. She isn't herself, and if he decided to ask her to marry him, I'm afraid she would do it. Why don't you ask her first, Lon?" "I want to, Belle. You know I do. I'd have asked her long before this except for one little detail. Selena doesn't love me." Belle placed a hand on Lon's arm. She felt the muscles, hard and tight under her fingers. "She doesn't love him either, Lon. But when he asks her to marry him Selena will say yes." (To be continued) Deserted Farm House Annie Atkin Tanner Alone it stands beside the mauve and fluted hills, Hot sun rays scorch its aging roof And winter rains wash off the summer dust. A muted wind swings the loosened shutters And brushes on the darkened window-panes. Tall junipers shake their azure berries Like warning bells at night. Straight and strong as sentinels They guard the quiet rooms, Which once were filled with laughter. No more a yellow light shines on a winding path To guide a family home. No more a song is heard. All is loneliness Beside the mauve and fluted hills. 309 oS __= ieaqecom FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker New Orleans Stake (Louisiana) Relief Society Holds ''Blast-Off'' Social For Ward Leaders September 21, 1963 Seated, center foreground: Beulah B. Larson, former president, New Orleans Stake Relief Society. Sister Larson reports: "The stake board held this social to establish close working relations between the stake and ward officers and class leaders, and to get our new Relief Society year off to a good start. A humorous play 'Relief Society — Why?' was presented to encourage full participation in the Relief Society program. Other numbers on the program included a reading, special musical numbers, and a rendition by ward Singing Mothers group. Each stake officer and board member sat with and served lunch to her group of ward leaders. After lunch, we held our first leadership meeting of the new year. Another skit — "The Good Ship Relief Society' — was used to introduce members of the stake board. After opening exercises, we conducted our usual departmental work, which brought to a close a very successful day in Relief Society. We feel that it laid the foundation for greater achievements in our stake." Cleora K. Williams is the new president of New Orleans Stake Relief Society. Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth G. Williams, Second Counselor; Pearl G. Williams, President; Marguerite R. Burton, First Counselor; Joyce Montgomery, assistant organist; Arvilla P. Arrowsmith, stake organist; Neva P. Simonsen, stake chorister; K. Gunn McKay, narrator of the presentation "God So Loved the World." Other participants: Patti Ann Jensen; Gayle Anderson; Marion Romander; Lucille Richardson; Afton P. McKell; Edith G. Briem. } Sister Williams reports: "We are very proud of the accomplishments of our Singing Mothers this year. They have furnished the music for stake conference, together with Relief Society conference. Each month in our Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special musical numbers. In April the Singing Mothers presented a beautifully arranged concert in the Ogden Tabernacle, before a large audience. We were very happy for the presence of Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. At our annual spring party held in May for all the women in the stake, we presented 'God So Loved the World.' The Singing Mothers furnished the music for that beautiful presentation. It was so favorably received that seven of our bishops asked that the presentation be given in their sacrament meetings. Our stake presidency was host to all the stake presidencies in the Ogden region at a lovely banquet. For this occasion the Singing Mothers were asked to give the presentation of 'God So Loved the World.' It was beautifully rendered and very inspirational. Everyone enjoyed the evening and expressed a greater desire to keep the commandments of our Father in heaven more fully and to serve him better." 310 APRIL 1964 Washington Stake (Washington, D. C.) Chevy Chase Ward Bazaar November 8-9, 1963 Virginia Cameron is seen admiring a hand-knit hat and sweater, made and modeled by Marjorie Van Camp (seated); Frances G. Bennett, second from the left, Elese B. Lundberg, and Mirandy Allison (right) are displaying some of the hundreds of handmade articles and objects of art displayed at the bazaar. Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, reports the theme was international and the general public was invited. A special feature of the bazaar was the display of many of the paintings included in the Seventieth Annual Exhibition of the Society of Washington Artists, from the National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution. Original creative stitchery and crewel embroidered wall hangings, Swedish embroidered tote bags, Sauna shifts, floral boutique pieces, ceramic pins, papier maché figures, as well as hand-knit sweaters, hats, slippers, and baby things, in addition to candle and wreath arrangements, and a large assortment of Christmas gifts kept the sisters busy for months preparing for the bazaar. Alice Marriott's mustard pickles and jams were in great demand at the gourmet booths, which offered a wide variety of homemade foods. Breads of the world, cakes, penny candy, country sausage, ham sandwiches, and homemade root beer were among the fast selling foods which were beautifully displayed. Monument Park West Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Holds "Fair Exchange" September 20, 1963 Left to right: Wanda N. Ericson, Work Director Counselor; Marcella B. Bramwell, Secretary-Treasurer; Clarice Cooper, President; Ruth H. Willes, Education Counselor. Sister Cooper reports: "A very successful and beautiful 'Fair Exchange' was held September 20, 1963. It was extremely gratifying to have approximately 500 people call during the hours from 10 A. M. Until 12 noon. Each of the seven wards of the stake was responsible for one booth, and in addition brought three articles for the 'Bazaar Booth.' A number of other talented people were generous in demonstrating special skills. Sister Bramwell had prepared a very interesting and informative chart on attendance at the various meetings. Nyena S. Nelson, theology class leader, Fae S. Carlson, literature class leader, Ruby E. Henderson, social science class leader, and Pat S. Lowder, Magazine representative, had eye-catching booths demonstrating their work. "The hall was festive, decorated in rich fall colors. Streamers, fanning out from a balloon-decorated high point on the back wall, suggested a huge tent. The names of the booths were printed in black on green, scalloped, corrugated paper which extended from pole to pole so as to make a continuous border. Very interesting names were used, such as: Sweet Shoppe, Norwegian Pancakes, Bread Basket, Cookie Carousel, Closet Door, Feather Fantasy, Knitting Needle, Fall's Creations, Christmas Ideas, Bazaar Items, Glamor Cobbler, and Nature's Magic and Originals. Everything shown or demonstrated could be made by hand. Samples and recipes were given wherever food was demonstrated. "The beautiful serving table featured a lovely centerpiece of ribbon chrysanthemums made by Ruby Swallow. Punch and cookies made by the board members were served by Margaret J. Harmon, stake music director, and Golda T. Evans, visiting teacher message leader. Bernice P. Engeman, stake organist, played beautiful and appropriate music during the entire 'Fair Exchange.' Those attending 'signed in,' and the ward with the largest number received a prize. Those who came received some excellent ideas for bazaars and work meetings, along with a renewed desire to attend Relief Society and receive its many benefits." 312 APRIL 1964 West German Mission Relief Society Officers Display Baby Quilts Made to Introduce Quilting to German Sisters Left to right: Elfriede Ziihlsdorf, President, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society; Elisabeth Uhlig, Counselor, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society; Louise C. Heyman, district leader, Frankfurt District; Mella Uchtdorf, SecretaryTreasurer, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society. Sister Heyman reports: "Sister McIntire, wife of President Wayne F. McIntire of the West German Mission, for a long time has had the desire to introduce quilting to the German sisters. So, at our Mission Relief Society Conference in May 1963, she made her desire known. A baby quilt, made of different kinds of quilt blocks, was prepared, and instructions and measurements were given to the sisters. A talk on the history of quilting and what our pioneer women have done along that line, was presented, and the desire of the General Board of Relief Society to have this art preserved among the sisters was mentioned. It was also pointed out that much good has been accomplished by the distribution of quilts in times of need. "The idea was received very favorably by the sisters. The Frankfurt sisters began their quilt-making projects with great enthusiasm, and they have now finished their first baby quilt and have already started another one. The quilts are made from materials purchased locally, including the batting." Riverdale Stake (Utah), Riverdale Ward Wins Quilt for Highest Attendance at Relief Society Visiting Teacher Convention September 28, 1963 Front row, left to right: Jean Porter, organist; Doris Woodbury, Counselor; Perneica Fiet, Counselor; Ruth Ritter, President; stake officers: Myrl S. Stewart, President; Della Greenwell, First Counselor; Nina Atwood, SecretaryTreasurer; board members: Margie Peterson, Ileen Henderson, Beth Tesch. Second row, left to right: Ruth Burton; Elva Hawkley; Neta Farr; Blanche Gibby; Donna Child; Ida Ritter; Mary Child; Pearl Child; Leah Cook; Mabel Ellis; Tillie Adams. Back row, left to right: Carol Nessen; Virginia Jackson; Jackie Kellerstrass; Bessie Boswell; Gladys Sorenson; Coralee Green; Jean Jensen; Elaine Ewert; Berdean Crabtree; Myrtle Carlsen, Hazel Manning; Asenath Davis. Sister Stewart reports: "This was such a unique and inspiring convention. Humble, sincere talks were given to inspire and encourage the visiting teachers. A special poem 'The Sacred Calling of the Visiting Teacher,' written by Lila Lutz, was read by her, and a copy, typed on blue paper and decorated with the Relief Society seal and gold ribbon, was presented to each visiting teacher present. The singing of the stake Singing Mothers chorus was glorious and beautiful. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. It was very spiritual, and every teacher was thrilled, enthused, and inspired to be a better visiting teacher. "The Riverdale Stake Relief Society presidency and board members made the exquisitely beautiful quilt of green and white border print, quilted in a very pretty pattern. The Riverdale Ward had eighty-two per cent of their visiting teachers in attendance at the convention, which was an exceptionally splendid record. Our aim this year is to double our attendance at the monthly visiting teacher meetings, which, in turn, will improve greatly the quality of our teaching. We feel that every teacher went away from the convention with the resolve to be a better teacher in every way. Dainty refreshments were served." 314 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 315 APRIL 1964 ARID Yh thAohy yo nw = Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Sisters at Youth Conference Tokyo, Japan, August 1963 First three women, starting at the wall, and curving to the front, left to right: Toshi Suzuki, East Central District Relief Society President; Shizuko Asakawa, First Counselor, East Central District; Chieko Abe, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Counselor. Far right, at the back, Peggy H. Andersen, President, Northern Far East | Mission Relief Society. Large Kanji character sign says: Fujo Kyokai — "Relief Society." Displays represent the different departments. Sister Andersen reports: "For the first time in the history of the Northern | Far East Mission, an all-youth conference was held for four days in August 1963. One of the highlights of the conference was the last day — Sunday, at which time the various departments of the Church demonstrated a typical meeting. The Sunday School, Genealogy Department, Priesthood, and Relief Society participated. "It was a thrilling sight to watch these lovely Japanese women meet for the first time in a building of their own. All meetings were held in the first chapel ever constructed in Japan. The building was not quite completed, but the saints were overwhelmed with the spirit manifested in these meetings. The artificial flowers in the picture were made out of paper napkins in order to cover up the unfinished pulpit. At the Relief Society section the various departments of theology, work meeting, literature, and social science were explained, and the visiting teacher message department was_ particularly stressed. Also, the lessons for 1963-64 were summarized. "It is significant to note that a large percentage of our women in Japan are among the youth, so it was only natural that Relief Society should be included in a Youth Conference. Since many of the girls and women are unmarried, I spoke to them concerning the power and dignity of womanhood, and of preparing themselves for a worthy Priesthood bearer. About 200 were in attendance at the special Relief Society gathering, but the picture represents various officers from several branches. Another thrilling sight was to see the members from branches all over Japan as they said goodbye to one another. For the first time in the mission many of them were privileged to meet one another. Tears were shed in almost every case, as they expressed the wonderful spirit of the Lord which was felt in the meeting." 316 Sleep Iris W. Schow Sleep is to mount with Pegasus And leave one's groove to soar afar, Forward or backward into time To lands more numerous than there are. Sleep is the glad surrender, when The muscle and the mind are made To yield up pain, fatigue, and grief, That time may mend what life has frayed. Sleep is the calm rehearsal we Perform each night by closing eyes On all life holds, and through the dark Resting in faith we shall arise. WORLD''S FAIR — APRIL TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. MEXICO — JUNE, 1964 EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII — MONTHLY TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 eT RS SS GS A GS SS GS SS eS ee cee SACRED MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES aeCOME YE BLESSED OF 1 | | I | | | | | | | | | | MY FATHER—Madsen.............. 20 2. IlFORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD | GO—Schumann........ 20 =. GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP | PEACE OF MIND—Stickles...25 | | wenHEAVENS ARE | TELLING—Haydn.......000000 0... 25 |... IN THY FORM—Madsen.............20!.... LET ALL MY LIFE BE I MUSIC—Spross...30 | oALET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT | FOR JOY—Stephens.......... 20 | | ae. LORD, GOD OF OUR | FATHERS—Armbruster...............25 | -. LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.............20 coalMY REDEEMER LIVES—Gates.....20 -. OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert........20 Use this advertisement as your I order blank | Music Sent on Approval "DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY ——OS 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music indicated (J Money Enclosed Name Address City and State | 1 t | | |! Above. L | (J On Approval [] Charge; I | \ H | 15 E. Ist South / Salt Lake City 11, Utah | The New Magna-Vu % A little marvel for reading, %& Hangs around your neck and %& Leaves the hands free for 3% Comes in a leather case. Tr Magnifies a large area! Glass! 84.06 [ Deseret Book | 4 EAST SO. ——s el eae COTTONWOOD MALL crocheting, and knitting... Sits on your chest comfortably. Working. SALT LAKE CITY Deseret Book ae 44. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Please send me a Magna Vu Glass. Enclosed is Name........ Address............ Ee City............ Zone... State. WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). << 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. —_ 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. Oo All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. > Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 318 Residents of Utah include 32% sales ie Thank You Loretta Hanson Thank you for your kindness, For thoughtful things you've done; For always knowing what to say, When darkness hides the sun. Thank you for your friendship, A true and priceless gift; For always being close at hand, When spirits need a lift. Words can never tell you, But you may know some day; The comfort you have given, Along life's rocky way. | pray to God in heaven, That | may some day be, The help and guide to someone, That you have been to me. Beautifully... Ideal for fine work and for looking at detail. $5.27 in money order........, check.........1 have an account, please charge......... Zaccheus Linnie F. Robinson Unbelief was desert in him While rumors fought the dried abyss; Until at last one step forthcoming, He said, ''I'll see how false he is." Then crowds came stumbling up the road Men clamored much to see and talk; Within a tree he waited long Where Jesus' sandaled feet would walk. But Jesus stopped and called his name, "'Come down, | must abide with thee!" And Zaccheus ran to make a feast, Then waited for his guest to be. When Zaccheus looked into his eyes He knew above his heart's surmise — "Half of my goods | give away —"' So reads his love unto this day. BEAUTIFUL JOIN OUR QUALITY HANDY TOURS TO DURABLE HOLY LAND March and October BOOK OF MORMON LANDS April—June—Nov.—Jan.—Feb.—March CHURCH HISTORIC PLACES and HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July New York World's Fair — Daily Departures via Bus-Air-Train HAWAII June and September EUROPE June Contact MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City 328-3161 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.....35 1000 to 1400 miles.64 150 to 300 miles.....39 1400 to 1800 miles.76 300 to 600 miles.....45 Qver 1800 miles.....87 600 to 1000 miles....54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, a —_ 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 319 "Seek Ye Out of the Best Books..."' TWO NEW VOLUMES. Ae $3.95 LATTER-DAY PROPHETS and the DOCTRINE & COVENANTS Volume II. Sections 42 to 76 by Roy W. Doxey An amazing and informative book that is a worthy successor to the very popular Volume I. Elder Doxey is an Associate Professor of Religion and Chairman of the Department of Undergraduate Studies in the College of Religious Instruction at Brigham Young University. Fascinating insight into latter-day prophecy. ORDER NOW FROM JUST OFF THE PRESS! Et bs * $2.95 THE LORD SPEAKETH by Alvin R. Dyer This well-known Church author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Traces the history of the gospel in a volume that is without precedence in Church Literature. From Adam and Moses through Huss, Calvin, and Luther to the Prophet Joseph Smith, this volume blends all the pieces into one enlightening whole. Seret B COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Deseret Book, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City — Please send me the above numbered books 1—2— for which I enclose $.............. -Money order........, check......... I have an account, please charge......... Beebe bb bob b cbc cee bbb eee eee MM eee eee eeeZone...... State... 2... Ee, Residents of Utah include 3'2% sales tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Dr. John T. Harris held fast to a dream... A dream that was about to be fulfilled. Eagerly on a Monday morning he went to check on the progress of his new clinic building. The boards and bricks put not merely boards and bricks— ubstance _— work in a small community, serving the people of his town and surrounding towns with excellent dental care. Little did the doctor realize as he walked up the makeshift board ramp to the side door of the structure that he would never see the building completed. Noticing a pool of water on the floor, indicating a problem below, John Harris, age 35, crawled under to investigate. He came in contact with electric wiring which, then grounded against his body, snuffed out his life. Seven months prior to this tragic mishap, Dr. Harris had wisely added a $50,000 Beneficial Life Insurance policy to his estate. Mrs. Harris and their children were spared an unbearable financial burden which otherwise would have been added to their burden of grief at the loss of a young husband and father. Total premiums of $791 returned $50,000 to help reara family of youngsters who must now manage without a father. Here, again, the wisdom and the miracle of life insurance! From the Beneficial Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Over 590 million dollars of life insurance in force. The Drea 8] and the in place by the workmen were they represented years of hard Magazine Number 5 The: Relief Society Volume 51 Margery S. Stewart | am crowded within With lilies and new oranges Green as jade on the beloved bough. Stars flow through me, for | have Made room for stars, a space For suns. | have grown out Of myself, this morning. | have grown out of the knotted Gourd grieved bone, Broken bowl, Out of intolerable pain | grew into this tall self, This self who knows what Mocking birds are crying Upon the morning, for, Like them, am become notes Of music. I can be placed in any melody, Movement, in symphony or lullaby, Or the deep singing of the Field woman, gathering apples In September. The Cover: © Roses on a White Fence, Cape Cod, Massachusetts Py Transparency by Josef Muench + Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: i Trees That Lean Over Water, Lake Mempremagog, Vermont Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts i Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: ' Mary Scopes ~ > 7, an f az, The Magazine is now an integral part of my life, and I look forward so much to receiving my copies. I pass them on to my Relief Society sisters so that they may enjoy the lessons, and then they always manage to read the Magazine from cover to cover. May you go from strength to strength with this wonderful Magazine, and continue to bring joy to us all. Olive M. Evans Lichfield, Staffordshire England My heart went out to Sister Lundgren when I read her article in the January issue of the Magazine — "What Is a Work Meeting Leader?" She put into words what I have felt in my heart. Thanks to the wonderful counselors and stake leaders I had while serving as a work leader, and also my work leader, while I was work director counselor, that I have this warm feeling for Relief Society. Mrs. Donaldine J. Boase Salt Lake City, Utah As each March 10th arrives, a white card is placed in my mailbox announcing the renewal of subscription for the most interesting Magazine I have ever read — a gift from my wonderful mother, for many years — The Relief Society Magazine. From its pages have come comforting theughts and truths, which stand as a witness for the salvation of man. Irene Carrigan Winn Ogden, Utah I want to thank you for our beautiful, inspiring Magazine. I wait impatiently each month for the Magazine and the words of love and advice it contains. Shirley Woolf Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia South Africa I want to let you know he much I do enjoy reading the zine. Each article holds so meaning and seems to give extra extra special lift. I was x last September, and my mo me a year's subscription to the zine as a Christmas present. I think of a better gift. Mrs. Dale Hamp Soda Springs, Idaho This little booklet (The ciety Magazine) has been « so much. When I have any headway with my fri ting forward the Latter. Story, I find the Magazine them in the lovely stori articles. Margaret M Rutherglen, S Over the years, as a F worker, I have used Celia Luce (a frequent « The Relief Society Ma times in conducting a c Venice M. C Phoenix, Arizona I was delighted to March issue of the Ma article (by Myrtle E. The proper use of language the mistakes most often n considered. Please give helps. We should take mor speaking correctly. Per errors are pointed out, and sons why they are not co explained, we will improve idly. As a Maggzine repre I find it easy to get new s as well as renewals, to our M. Because of the excellent he wide range and interest of Olive H. Fox Salt Lake City, Utah Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utch 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. the Relief Society vec2zine VOLUME 51 MAY 1964 NUMBER 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 324 The Family Goes Back to School Elaine Reiser Alder 328 Literary Contest Announcements 1964 331 Your Poem and You' Eva Willes Wangsgaard 339 Art Asa Hobby Myrtle E. Henderson 376 Magazine Honor Roll for 1963 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 334 Adjustment Alice Gubler Sabin 342 Gramps and Beanie Shirley Thulin 370 Your Heart to Understanding—Chapter 4 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 322 From Near and Far 347 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 848 Editorial: The Lighted Window Vesta P. Crawford 890 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 400 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out What Is a Mother? By Margaret Richards, 351; Mother—Pioneer of the Present, by Hazel Sowards Cannon, 352; Thanks, Mom, for Everything, by Sara O. Moss, 353; Verdi on the Farm, by Winona F. Thomas, 354; Ask Mrs. Braithwaite, by Janice Dixon, 356; A Letter From Grandma, by Violet Nimmo, 358; A Call in the Night, by Mary E. Gallamore, 359; Cuddly Crib Quilts, by Adelle Ashby, 360; Sewing Time, by Dorothy C. Little, 362; Potpourri of Handy Hints, by Jo M. Stock, 462; Recipes From the Southwest, by Romaine R. Cooksey, 363; Appetite Teasers for Preschoolers, by Margaret Maxwell, 364; Oatmeal Date Bread, by Anne Marie Astle, 366; Select Your Own Dessert, by Patricia M. Faas, 367; Transfers for Children's Clothing, by Janet W. Breeze, 367; From the Dear Windows of Home, by Leona Fetzer Wintch, 368; Alma A. Fernelius— "Lady of Lovely Crocheting," 369; The Right Key, by Luella Foster, 388; Whom Should I Seek? By Blanche Briggs, 388; Joy, by Olive Sharp, 389; Double Your Pleasure—Double Your Subscription, by Ouida Johns Pedersen, 389; Life Is Beautiful, by Ida G. Hepworth, 397. Poetry 321 I Am Crowded Within — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart Secret, by Ida Elaine James, 330; Spring Lambs, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 333; My Neighbor, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 337; Valley Sky at Sunrise, by Pearle M. Olsen, 338; Renewal, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 350; Prayer for My Daughter, by Carolle Denton, 375; Prayer for People, by Gilean Douglas, 381; Memory, by Grace Barker Wilson, 398; Summer Song, by Linnie F. Robinson, 398; We Pass But Once, by Catherine B. Bowles, 399; Unsaid Words, by Zara Sabin, 399; Shape of Time, by Thelma J. Lund, 399; My Mother, by Christie Lund Coles, 400. 323 324 Elaine Reiser Alder The Egg Carton Castle Eugene, Oregon September 1963 Dear Sharon: Waar fun it has been, thinking of all the things about which to write you. Ever since you asked me to tell you some of the secrets of being a happy "student wife," I have had a chance to think back over the five years Doug and I are concluding as graduate student and wife. As you know, he will receive his Ph. D. In the spring, and I must confess that getting my P. H. T. (Putting Husband Through), along with him has been equally as challenging, if not more fun! So, let's chat about some aspects of married student life. Having a small baby, as you do and [I did, and moving to a new town into barracks-type housing, may present demands on your martriage which you haven't expected. We readily admit that the early years of our schooling presented some adjustment for both of us. Doug was at school all day until suppertime, but he enjoyed his two hours at home then, playing with the baby. He returned to the library nearly every evening until it closed at 10 p. M. — and our thin-walled apartment, with its creaky floors, didn't make me feel very much at home. But I soon realized that all the other student wives around me enjoyed friendships during those long afternoons and evenings, at least as much as I. I tried to find opportunities to meet some of them and found the time rewarding. As our friendships grew, we enjoyed visiting in each other's homes, sharing ideas, helping with sewing or knitting projects, trading magazines, and even having "potluck" suppers to the surprise of our husbands every month or so. As our children grew older, we took turns tending each other's children so that each of us could have an afternoon off. The friendships we have cultivated in our student living have re mained as choice as any we hope to have. Most of us have moved from our barracks community, but we still delight in hearing of graduations, births, and progress of each child. We long to visit each other in different parts of the world. Though the days are long — and must be if the husband is to get all his studying, writing, and part-time work done — you will no doubt find the time you spend with Tom is so precious that you enjoy every minute of it. Doug and I even enjoyed grocery shopping once 4 week — because it was our Friday night date and a chance to get away from the books! Sundays were out special days of rest from schoolwork with Church activities and visits from friends and quiet relaxation in the evening, listening to the rebroadcast of the Tabernacle Choir, 1000 miles away. Durinc the long days and evenings, you can keep busy doing many things which will make the hours productive and Tom proud of you — learning to cook special dishes and surprising him with them at supper, sewing for yourself, 'Tom, and the children (a real money-Saver), making Christmas cards and gifts, embroidering, knitting, making a baby book or scrapbook, writing letters or reading. You may have other hobbies I am not aware of, but this is a good opportunity to enjoy them. The time can be wasted or used — depending on what you wish. While 'Tom is progressing mentally in his schooling, vou will realize that you can come closer together if you engage in some kind of mental activity similar THE FAMILY GOES BACK TO SCHOOL to his studies. An often-used library card is an inexpensive avenue toward keeping your mind alert. Above all, don't begrudge or apologize for the time you spend in school. It is a privilege to attend school, and nowadays it is so Ccommon for young couples with families to be in school that there is no need for embarrassment. Learn to laugh about the odd things you may have to do — seating guests on the floor because there aren't enough chairs, eating with odd kinds of utensils because you don't have complete table service, or eating beans for a week because your food money didn't quite hold out! Many of your neighbors are probably doing the same. Now that we are nearly through with school, we feel pangs for the fun and funny things about barracks living. We decided, when we moved away from OUT parents and lifelong friends, that our chief sources of entertainment would be our children, Church activities, and our new friends. Since we knew no one at first, we began making friends and soon had scores of guests to invite to our home. Our favorite activity with friends was to invite them to our apartment "for dessert." We would serve punch and cookies or brownies and spend the evening visiting, sharing our colored slides, listening to music, OF playing Scrabble. Our guests brought their children and put them to sleep on our bed. The next time we took Scott with us to their apartment nearby to enjoy a similar evening. Ir would be unfair to underestimate the value of the Young Marrieds program and Relief Society. Both gave us friends of all ages, and the opportunity to keep busy by serving others. I never lacked for a "mother 325 MAY 1964 cord tacks S LO tack to ceiling with small, horseshoe-shaped burlap ZB VLG, Zz =i | Za, pS fede FAS = Vo tin = EEE: Aaa || |e Gn pre foie] ee or ire jer | 7 Ze = La L 7 he Gi. Knitting needles pierced through cardboard Cross-view of cardboard lampshade Shape with cardboard Cover inside with aluminum foil Aluminum foil (as heat protector) Cover outside with burlap or other material The knitting needles cross in center of lamp to hold bulb and socket in place. Total cost: Approx. 75c - $1.00. Away from home," because the women at Relief Society were all willing to be one to me. Scott has been active in Relief Society since he was six weeks old — and _ has loved it! One of the hardest things about student living is financial management. This is where you can shine, however. Studying week-end ads in the newspapers, preparing foods that are nutritious and yet inexpensive, and constantly watching 326 for ways of improving your money management will be keys to your success. Certain meat cuts (pot roast, shank end ham, chickens) provide good nutrition at minimum cost and allow "planned overs" for other days in the week, sandwiches, casserolcs, soup stock, stew, hash, or cold plates. Keep your eyes open for other specials during the week end. If hamburger is the only thing in our price range, I make sure the baking gives us fresh bread, and dozens of cookies — at little cost. Rather than serving rich desserts, we eat fresh fruits and feel we kept it filled with the beef, specials from the supermarket, and homefrozen fruits and vegetables which we bought (and often picked out foods, aS 4 matter of economy, and have felt our health and budget are better for it. & peakinc of economy, let me mention a problem you may face when you get in the middle of things in yout school routine. You may find, as we did, that it is necessary for the wife to do something to supplejy income.. Many girls are find satisfactory work in offices and_ stores, but I preferred a job which could be done typin while Scott slept oT played nearby. Other wives chose to b working mothers, some did ironing for single students, and one or two took orders for baked goods which they made at home. Since we were living together in an equal status, there was no class distinction for work — the most highly respected people were those who worked the hardest. There are a number of ways you may save money 0" home furnishTHE FAMILY GOES BACK TO SCHOOL and decorations for your apartment. We refinished old living room and dining room ich our parents gave Us, partitions from dyed burlap, painted sticks, and reed drapes. I the rooms in cheerful colors and made suitable curtains to match each room. Bricks and boards made ample bookcases. We were delight: ed with out "modern" hanging lamp in our living room — constructed of cardboard, aluminum foil, burlap (to match our partition), and knitting needles! Our apartment éven has flat corrugated egg dividers stapled to the ceiling for insulation, a legacy from the previous tenants— student years as much as we have ours. We have been told time and again that "these are the rich years of life," and we realize it now as We step a little higher toward respons! The association of young adults and children alike. Money and wondered if we would get through the month with a dime left, but we learned one valuable lesson through our student living — the value of the rich things in life. Friends, family, goals, education, music, beauty, nature — and all things which the gospel gives to us _ these can be enjoyed regardless of where you live. Worthwhile source for these things — and your years will hold such fond memories for you as they do for us. With love, Elaine 327 nts THE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. THE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1964. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize —........-000..-22.2. E2e$40 Second prize 0.2... 222...$30 Third prize _...00000 eee$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 328 —— | —s t pe Contest 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for. Final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Tue Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1964 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1964. The prizes this year will be. As follows: First prize __....-..---.--..-..-...$75 Second prize...........0..............--$60 Third prize..........................----$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1965. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 1964° CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS. Message or theme. Form and pattern Rhythm and meter. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax om) 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1964. 11. All-entries are to be. Addressed to Relief Society Eliza R.. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The: rstory must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must: be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A. Duplicate copy of the story should be retained by 'contestants to 'insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will 329 MAY 1964 hed nor submitted Publication until ecided. Planatory ma not be publis elsewhere for the Contest is q 6. No ex ture is to 8. The judges shal member of the G Person from the En? They thre One turns 330 ad their Way, off alone; r glance for submitted toa Specially Select, Mittee for final decision. In evaluating the Stories, considergtion will be given to the following Points: ed coma. Characters tion. B. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing; Style and their Presenta- 9. Entries must be POstmarked not later than August 15, 1964. Ntries are to be addresseq Ociety Short § ory Contest ». Behing, art, and March. - +. Stop, st drab o sh 8 Circles everywhere; She sMiles and Smiles. - » Why should she? Poem Eva Willes Wangsgaard Author of Singing Hearts, After the Blossoming, Down This Road, Shape of Earth. Mist of what I have to say of poetry will incline toward the traditional, by which I mean that great part of our poetic literature from "Beowulf" to Robert Frost's "Death of the Hired Man," in which the reader identified himself or herself with the characters, understood the ideals by which they lived and for which they died, and, knowing them, cast a light on the reader's own problems and purposes. From generation to generation through centuries, these poems have shed their influence on the growth of civilization as we know it. No one has so far created a satisfactory answer to the question: What is a poem? We can only open little doors. Poems resemble apples. They are of in- - finite variety, from the pretty but pulpless rose pip to the luscious Golden Delicious. A poem must be attractive in form to entice the reader, have meat you can sink your mental teeth into, a flavor that delights, excites, and satisfies, a core of wisdom, and seeds to project into other hearts and, perhaps, into the future. And, like the tree, a poem must have a reservoir of food from which to draw its sustenance. Now, how do you fill this reservoir? You Learn Fundamentals FIRST — A _ beginning poet needs a good rhyming dictionary, for, whether or not she ever intends to write rhyming verse, she should know what she is using or rejecting and give her poetry a chance to shape its own form before it is born. Besides, a rhyming dictionary, at least the one you will buy or own, begins with a chapter which explains and illustrates feet, meter, verse, variations, and stanza forms, and does it interestingly and enjoyably. You will find as you study that you have already picked up subconsciously, through reading, many of the patterns and devices explained here. For instance, everyone, poet or layman, is aware of meter and rhyme to some degree. But the other phases of the subject, you can study and learn and store in the reservoir of your subconscious so they will be as automatic as your grammar and English usage. SECOND — Increase your vocabulary. A good Thesaurus helps here. It groups words and phrases on specific subjects and presents them alphabetically, words that convey kindness, for instance, classifying them as to nouns, verbs, adjectives, and ad- 331 MAY 1964 verbs, and including phrases as well as words. A good vocabulary includes the knowledge of the different meanings of a word. Merriam-Webster's Unabridged lists at least thirteen different meanings for the word take. You should study, at the same time, the values in letters and their play on the emotions. There are liquid sounds like / and r, sibilants like s, dentals like d and t. Live with them, roll them around on your tongue, feel them, so that when you need them they cluster around a thought as iron filings collect on a magnet. THIRD — Be natural. Write in the language of today as you speak, not in the vintage of an older day when words like o'er and e'er were in common usage and so are found in poetry also. Above all, let your language be sincere and natural, not necessarily conscious of being written. FOURTH — Read, read, and read. Especially read history, geography, the classics, and the Bible. Familiarize yourself with the general sciences — botany, geology, ornithology, and with philosophies and doctrines. From these spring your future allusions and images, and knowledge deepens your thinking and enhances your expression. FIFTH — Be aware. Make friends with all the living things about you. Know the shape of a leaf, its feel and texture; know the grasses, the bark of trees. Be aware of color in everything, petals, sky, old wood, rushes and reeds, earth and sea, everywhere. Become acutely aware of sounds and forms. Increase your interest and wonder. And store all 332 this as naturally as your body accepts its food. SIXTH — Write. Try out various meters, verse and stanza forms. Try out your thoughts. Let them flow. Criticize your technique afterward, but do not let it impede the flow. SEVENTH — and_ perhaps most important — Find the inner you. Let your thoughts sink into "the beyond" where you, and only you, dwell, so that the flavor of you is a part of every poem you write, not what you have been taught, or have read or heard, but really you. The savor of your experiences, your interpretations, incidents seen through your eyes, and your appreciation of your world, must enrich your poem. Let us illustrate the birth of a minor poem. Let us say, "Today has been a golden day." We have the beginning of a lyric, a fourfooted iambic line. Now particularize, and the poem grows. What was golden about this day? "A lark sent up a trill, and notes like golden music rolled back down the sky's blue hill." Now we have the color blue contrasting with the goldenness of sound and emphasizing it. What else? "Two finches shunted nuggets back and forth from throat to throat, and birch lace sifted sunlight fine to gild a warbler's coat." Now we have enriched the vocabulary of gold with nugget and gild, and the words shunted and sifted which are more effective than adjectives in describing what is happening. Wings and movement have entered the picture. Sunlight is there with its ee hint of goldenness. The warbler's coat is yellow and a memory is stirred of its capability of golden song. "My baby played with golden blocks, with gold dust in his hair, while I washed plates in gleaming suds, for gold was everywhere." Now we move inside and see the speaker washing dishes and looking out the window with her baby sitting in the YOUR POEM AND YOU cone of sunlight streaming through the panes, gilding his hair and the blocks. She is so happy that even the suds are gleaming. Then we conclude by tying back to the opening line which set the theme. "Today has been a golden day. Did you not find it such? Was it the wind or just my heart that had the Midas touch?" REFERENCES Hamilton, Anne: Seven Principles of Poetry Hillyer, Robert: First Principles of Verse (Published by The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass.) Holmes, John: Writing Poetry Wood, Clement: Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary (The World Publishing Company, 2231 West 10th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio) Rogets Thesaurus of the English Language (Garden City Publishing Company, Garden City, New York) ewe Spring Lambs \ Ihe. Vesta N. Fairbairn Peaceful, the deep-wooled sheep in lush, green grasses keep Their lively lambs, new-born, And huddled in the buckthorn The gray, half-buried rocks Are sleeping hillside flocks, While soft as wool, and white As fleece the blown clouds might Be spring lambs browsing high Blue pastures of the sky. 333 Jason," Salley spoke softly. Jason did not answer. He was reading the evening paper. "Jason, honey," she said. His foot twitched a bit. That was all the response she got. "Anybody home?" she asked, and then added, "obviously not." She put the magazine down that she had been reading and went over beside him. Ruffling his hair, she said, "Hi, Jason! Remember me? I'm your wife Salley." Jason stirred and made a gruff little sound. She knew she had almost got through to him. Sometimes he was the deafest and dumbest person on earth. She glanced at the paper he was reading. No wonder! He was intent on the sports section. She was no competition for the basketball scores. With resignation, she retrieved her magazine and curled up on the sofa. Ten minutes later he let his paper fall to the floor. "Did you say something, Salley?" he asked. Salley did not raise her eyes from the magazine. Silently she went on 334 reading. He stretched his long arms and legs luxuriously, and then extricated himself from his deep chair. "I declare I heard someone speak. Have you any idea who it was?" He stood looking down at her. She turned a page of her magazine and continued reading. He ran_ his fingers through her shiny curls, tumbling them. "Hi, Salley, remember me? I'm your husband Jason." She went on reading. He pushed back a curl and kissed her on the tip of one ear. "Oh, Jason," she said, "'you're impossible. It was hours ago when | spoke to you. I have forgotten what I wanted to say." "But, honey," he protested, "I couldn't hear you. You see, I was reading." "Oh!" she said with exasperation. "Honestly! There isn't another man like you in all the world! I ask you a question one day, and you do not hear me until the next and then you answer me. By that time I've forgotten what I asked you." He grinned. "That, my dear, is one of the remarkable things about your husband. My mind is equipped with a delayed action device. Lots of trouble is averted that way." Now he was teasing her. This was probably the Wrong time to approach him with the subject she had wanted to mention. He smiled at her. What a little pixie she was. A petite little pixie with a snip nose. He sat down beside her. "I'm sorry," he said. "Tell me please what it was you wanted." "T really did want to talk to you," she said. "We've been married for almost three months. Don't you think it's time that we sat down and had an — an interview?" "A what?" Jason's voice went up to a peak. "An interview. You know — like employers and employees do when they've been together for a certain period of time." He blinked and made as if to speak but uttered no sound. "There's nothing queer about that," she explained, "] read all about it right here in this magazine. 'How to Make Your Marriage Work,' by Dr, Snodgras." She was very matter of fact. "Isn't our marriage working?" he asked. "Of course it is, silly, but Dr. Snodgras says this is supposed to be our adjustment period. He says that both of us do lots of little things that irritate each other, and we should talk it out and then it won't irritate us any more." "Oh, I see," he said indulgently. "Seems as if I read something like that in a book once." "You did?" Her enthusiasm rose. "Then you'll understand all about it. Tell me what you remember." "Let me see." "He wrinkled his ADJUSTMENT brow. "I believe it said there are many adjustments to make in marlage — and — oh, yes. I remember now. It said the wives are the ones to do the adjusting. Wives are usualy younger than husbands, and sometimes smaller, and naturally more pliable, A husband can't change. He is big and burly and set up like hard clay by the time he gets married. I think that's what the book said." "You must have read the wrong book. I guess the interview idea is not so good after all." "Quite the contrary. I think it's a fine idea. When do we begin?" "Are you sure you're interested?" she asked. "Of course." "Well..." she said reluctantly. "T have made a few notes." "On how to conduct an inter. View?" She blushed. "No. On things that I should point out to you." "T see. You mean notes on the things I do that irritate you." He pretended to be wounded. "Honey," she said apologetically, "there's almost nothing wrong with you. Remember, we aren't discuss ing big things — like money. | won't even mention the time Jan asked me to go shopping with her and you gave me five dollars and told me not to go hog wild on it and Jan said, "That's nidiculous. No one can go hog wild with only five dollars." Dr. Snodgras _ says big things seldom undermine a marriage, because people always correct them. It's the little things that do it, like tapping a pencil against your teeth all the time when you're trying to think. Little things can be terribly distracting you know." "T see. And we must be broadminded and understanding and 335 MAY 1964 practical about the whole discussion. "That's exactly what Dr. Snodgras said. Jason, you're wonderful. This is going to be great. Here is a pad and pencil for you. As I go over the pointers I have here, fhings will come to your mind to jot down about me. Feel free to interrupt anytime. You may want to justify yourself you know." "I'm anxious for you to begin." "You promise me you won't be hurt?" she asked anxiously. "Not at all. I shall remind myself that it is all in the interest of family solidarity." He flashed her a smile. "You almost disarm me when you smile at me like that. I am trying to be very objective. Now, first on my list I have — honestly, Jason, I'm not so sure I like this idea." "Tt's great! I insist that you proceed. I can hardly wait my turn," he said heartily. "Really? Well then I shall begin. Let me see...." She studied her notes. "First of all — your shoes. It always bothers me where you take them off at nights, because in the dark I stumble over them. And speaking of stumbling in the dark — I wouldn't have to do it if I could just wake you. Like the other night. 'There were some cats yowling by our window. I couldn't wake you, so I had to scare them away myself. Jason, do you think you could sleep just a little lighter?" "T shall try," he said obediently. "But, really, Salley, you should turn on your lamp if you're going to prowl in the night." "Tm afraid I might wake you if I turn on my light." "That's what I love about you, my dear." He grinned. "You are so consistent." 336 "About your eating habits," she continued. "I really don't mind if you want your toast so brown 1 almost have to burn it, or your egg so raw that I have to look the other way while you eat it, and that you sugar your tomatoes and salt your melons. I guess I can get used to that, but it did bother me when you said my angel cake was like trying to eat fog and you scrunched a piece of it into a little wad because you said a man needed something to sink his teeth in." Jason had been speedily jotting down notes. He looked up. "IT apologized about your cake, dear. Yours is the lightest in the world. I shouldn't have teased you." "T forgive you. But couldn't you try not to be so hungry when you come home and I don't have dinner ready? And couldn't you come home promptly on the days I do have it ready instead of keeping me waiting?" He was taking notes again. "You are writing an awfully lot. Can you listen and write too?" "T haven't missed a word. Finish your list. I'm getting anxious for my turn." Shue was losing interest in her own list, his looked so ominous. © But she must finish what she had started. "T have a note here to remind you not to squeeze the toothpaste tube in the middle, and for you to please not hang your soiled shirts back in your closet, and when you wipe dishes, would you please put the forks in with the forks and not with the spoons — sorry. I meant to cross that one out. It's nice of you to wipe the dishes. And couldn't you change your attitude about women drivers? Every time you see a car parked wrong you say some woman did it. Well, I watched the other day to see who drove off in 'the car that straddled two parking spaces in the market parking lot. It was a fat man." Jason had filled the second page on his pad. Salley stopped and looked at him. "I don't believe I had better finish my list now," she said, "it would be nice for you to have a turn." He sat thoughtfully studying his notes. "Will you please go ahead?" she said. She glanced at the magazine lying on the stand. In bold red letters on its shiny cover the title of the feature article by Dr. Snodgras glared at her. Actually, she had been riding on a pink cloud ever since she had married Jason. She had been wonderfully happy, until something she read in that article punctured a few holes in her cloud. Jason looked up from his list. ADJUSTMENT Now he was going to deliver the load. She felt miserable. She wished she had torn up her list. There really wasn't one item of importance upon it. 'The number one item on his list would be that she talked too much. He regarded her silently. "Go on, Jason, please," she said in a small voice. She arose. As she did so she brushed against the magazine and it fell to the floor. Jason came over to her and put a big firm hand on each of her shoulders. He regarded her tenderly. "T have been writing a list of all of the things I adore about you," he said. "Honey, I wouldn't change a hair of your head. You are perfect just as you are." Frustrated and repentant, she ground her heel into the magazine on the floor. She buried her face against him to hide the hot tears. With a merry chuckle he kissed her. SED Evelyn Fjeldsted I miss my friendly neighbor— The little children, too, | miss her kindly interest And all the things we used to do. It is good to have a neighbor, Who. Calls in frequently, Who comes in time of trouble, And stands. By willingly. Could | but choose my neighbors And keep them. Ever near,. | would send for you this evening, Because we miss you here. 337 Don Knight 338 Pearle M. Olsen How loosely combed are tendrilled waves of wool Which hang ice-white in the blue of western sky. In quivering forms they float, then play and pull — And gently scatter as the creeping dye From eastern sun intensifies the full Warm tints of pink on spreading, climbing high Fleeced curls. Then suddenly the colorful Clear spectrum hues come rushing and defy The usual chroma, as the tumbling wool Becomes a flaming heaven color cry! Do you have time on your hands? Are you feeling discouraged by the monotony of doing the same routine things every day? Are you a young homemaker with energy to spare? Have you been retired from your job or position, and do you feel that your life is ended, and any creative ability you ever had is dying within you? Have your children grown up and established homes of their own? If your answer is yes to any one of these questions, then you need a challenging, exciting hobby that will last a lifetime. May I suggest that the study of art appreciation and painting may be one answer to your problem. Now don't say no until you have thought about the possibilities. A Good Beginning Let's begin simply by seeing the beauty around us — perhaps as an artist would see it. Look at the changing patterns of the clouds, the soft tints or flaming glow of a sunset on them; feel the softening rays of the moon; behold the majesty of snowcovered mountains; see the long shadows and hear the whispering leaves in the depths of the woods; become aware of the motion of a field of golden grain as the wind sweeps over it in waves. Wir bt ron <—sji get as a Hobby Myrtle E. Henderson, M. A. Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College If we see things in this way, we are using as many of our five senses as possible, and, like the artist, we will see more beauty than we had dreamed there was around us. The Art of Appreciation Another helpful and enlightening step in our adventure into art is to learn to understand and appreciate paintings. Find out what has gone into them, what are their values, and what makes them good or poor. Let's see what an artist has said about pictures. One critic suggests that pictures make their appeal to individuals through their beauty of line, the quality of their color, or through the interest in their patterns. We can learn to appreciate line, color, and pattern for their own sake, and then a picture does not need to tell a story. Art appeals to the sight as well as to the imagination. Paintings may be an interpretation rather than a photographic representation of the subject. Leave the exact details to the camera. Design in Paintings My art teacher said often that pictures should not be "too busy," meaning there should not be too many points of interest or 339 MAY 1964 too many objects. Look for simplicity of design. There should be a focal point — a way to get "into" a picture. For example, in a landscape, let the eye follow down a road, or a stream, or the sun path on a lake, or, maybe, down a street or a path in the woods. Beautiful shape and color can claim artistic value, but they should not be spoiled by being too ornate. Overdecoration in anything reflects lack of taste and discrimination — in a home as well as in pictures. Rhythm and Movement In evaluating a painting, an artist will be aware of the qualities of rhythm and movement in the picture and will feel the texture of different objects. Now perhaps you are thinking, "Texture and movement, and color and shadow I can understand, but what about rhythm? Artists tell us that rhythm is the quality of flowing lines, of lovely curves and shapes that answer and complement each other. The changing shape of clouds makes a kind of rhythm, flowers have different rhythms, as the daisy has a circular rhythm, the blades of grass growing together have an upreaching rhythm. So, in drawing flowers, the leaves and main line of growth must repeat each other in pattern, and the pattern should be accentuated in the drawing. Arrangement of Objects When an artist looks at a painting or a landscape to paint, he is attracted not only by objects, but by the arrangement of what he sees. Objects are grouped together to form a particular landscape, as trees, fields, 340 and rocks. He sees also an arrangement of qualities in color and line. He sees objects in relation to their background and surroundings. He sees the green of the trees in relation to the green or blue or purple of the distant hills. He sees the vertical lines of the trunks of the trees in relation to the horizontal lines of the lake shore or the horizon. All this beauty reaches out to him, and he feels it and wants to express it on his canvas. Painting Is a Natural Impulse Perhaps, if we learn to see things as the artist sees them, and to understand art, we, too, may have the urge to paint what we see. Do I hear you say, "Oh, I could never paint a picture!" How do you know? Have you ever tried? One of the greatest teachers of drawing in America, said that the impulse to draw is as natural as the impulse to talk. We learn to talk by simple words and sounds at first, and by much repetition, and we can learn to draw and paint in the same way. True, few of us may become great artists, but just beginning to paint can be a rewarding experience, and a world of pleasure can be derived from it. Don't worry if, for the first few months, your drawing doesn't resemble anything called art. It has been said that the sooner you make your first five thousand mistakes, the sooner you can correct them. I know a woman who did not even try to paint until she was forty years of age. Her mother's poor health made it necessary for her to give up her office work and stay home to take care of her. She needed something to take up he Pare time. A the Then g Went ove the board Suggestion of er neighbor Who with linsee 1, and then wit Was a good amateur artist, she three ¢ ats Paint. Sh Work, and is hoping to make a Materials business of it. People bring hey How to get materials May be Colored Snapshots of Scenes they a problem to you. Let me Suggest have Photographed on their vaca. That there are many excellent tions, oy Pictures from other Water color Sets that are inex. Sources, and she repr Oduces them Pensive. A box of eight Colors and In oils, She takes Orders for Paintone brush can be Purchased fo, ings in Certain Shades and col. One dollar, or a box of Sixteen Ors to blend Into the Colors of colors and one brush, for two aS passed > IS to take her brushes S€ are €Ty good Paints and ut into the hills colors, but Te a litt] More ex. And paint fr, at Pensive, DH Pads will need OU say yoy too old to to be Purchase With the Paints of Grandma Moses, who began tubes Separately or in Complete to paint When she Was nearly kits, With the oil Painting one eighty? Grandma Moses Started will need oil Cups, Spatula, PalWorking Pictures in Worsted, lette, and, at least three different After she afflicted with ar. Sizes of b ushes, Th vas ma ritis in he h nds, it as difficult be obtained IN a roll or ©n boards or her to hold dle. Her © May never Paint master. Siste Suggested Ss try Pieces, by enter the MarPainting, ince it might be easier Velous Creative w tld of form and to hol € brushe. 30 she began rhythm, Pattern, and texture and paint. Sh Painting Color. We can reach oyt and select Was a very Pleasant hob Y; if one and use and retaj » Aalnst time did not hav In her e evanescent eauty in the autobiogy Phy, she tells how sh andscape our da We can egan to ta Picture She seenlarge Vision and Our apCured the frame, then Sawed Preciation of the Magnificent uniMasonite board to fit the frame. Verse. Today is here. It is new, it is Now. Forget yesterday, Which js Bone. Use Today 4S best you can. You are Sure of it, and nothing More. Begin here and now. In 341 SRAMPS and Beanie Shirley Thulin Miarcaret looked out at the day. It-was a good day, the sun was noon high and the blue sky nestled a few puffy clouds. It was as good a time as any to tell Gramps about the place they had found for him. When she had tried to tell him last week it was raining. The night was fretful and she hadn't been able to say the words. Dear Gramps, she _ thought. He's so special. And as always when she thought of her grandfather, he became more than a beloved relative, he somehow was tangled with other memories of the past. Things like corn-cob dolls that he so often carved for her, and long slow walks while he turned the irrigation water into their ditch, and stories... The wonderful stories. But she had 342 finally decided Jim was right. Gramps was getting to be a handful. It wasn't so bad when Grandmother was still with them. She could manage him, but, lately, the had become childish, and so much work and worry. And now with the new baby on the way.... Margaret pulled the last dish from the pan of hot rinse water and put it in the drainer. Then she wiped her hands on her apron and reached behind to untie the bow. As she went out the front door to find Gramps, she heard Michael giggle. Michael will miss him so, she thought, I wish Jim hadn't.... "Hi, you two, what's going on?" "Hi, Mommy, come play froggy with us. Gramps plays froggy funny." Margaret quickly looked about the street bors were not always understanding. She started to scold, the uldn't be able "J don't want a nap, Mom. We aren t through playing." "You look a little pale, dear. Do you feel all right?" "Feel fine, Mom." "You go take your nap, Beanie. Your mother wants to talk to me. We'll play after,' Gramps said. "Oh, Gramps -- - »" Margaret waited until Michael was gone and then the words began to tumble out, all in the wrong direction. "We love you, we really do, but.-- " "JT know, honey, I know." "No, you don't.-:- I mean, you really don't understand." "JT know an old fellow like me _,..? His voice trailed off, and his eyes squinted towards the mountains. Got to be put out to pasture some time or other." childishly with Michael, the way he refused to eat what she fixed, spurning other nourishing food for a worry. Always going and coming home like it.--:: wouldn't call Mike Beanie.--: GRAMPS AND BEANIE You found a place?" didn't look at her. Found a place. It's _,. E She was going to tell him it was a nice place. And it really Gramps homes. "Ts it very far away?" Gramps looked at her then, and, suddenly, he seemed awfully tired. His eyes were searching hers. "No. Not really very far..-- "When?" Just one word, it had been spoken as though it took all the strength he had left. "Not for awhile," and as she told him this, she was ashamed of her lack of courage. Why hadn't she told him his room would be ready Monday? Monday.--: just four days away- "Does Beanie know?" "N 0." "Then let me Gramps turned slowly and went down the walk. Call after him to remind him to be back soon - - - much aware of the sudden slump shoulders. Besides, she knew it wouldn't do any good, it never had. " Tat night when Jim came be able "How d "Well, he was quiet. He seemed to guess what. I was going to say before I began." "He's probably heard us talking.-- a "He'll miss Mike." "They re good to the old people in those places." 343 MAY 1964 "But Gramps isn't just old people. He... He's Gramps. He's more of a family man.... Gram hasn't been gone long. Most of those old men haven't had anyone for a long time before they "Now, honey, ~you said you wouldn't fret anymore." Jim took her in his arms and put his cheek on hers. '"'He'll be happy, in fact, he'll be happier, he won't have you to nag him." and Jim laughed, but Margaret didn't. She could still see the longing and the searching in the old man's eyes. "Besides,". Jim was pacing the kitchen, "the doctor told you to take it a bit easy this time...." "I know... We've been over all this...." When the supper table was set Margaret was suddenly aware that Michael was still asleep. "That's funny," she told Jim. "He doesn't usually sleep this long." "Worn out, I guess. Is Gramps back yet?" Margaret sighed. "No, and I don't suppose he will be for awhile. You sit down, Ill go wake Mike. What time does your train leave?" "Eight-twenty. Will you bring me my shoe horn? I think it's on Mike's dresser. I don't want to forget it again. Those hotels just don't furnish shoe horns." Margaret laughed. It was no secret that her husband wasn't overly fond of hotels. He didn't like to leave his home, not even when it meant extra money. For a moment Margaret stood looking at Michael, then she sat on the edge of his bed and put her hand on his forehead. 'Mike. 344 Honey. Wake up, it's suppertime." The child stirred and: said, "All right," but he didn't open 'his eyes. Margaret> frowned and felt his head again. It was hot. And dry. "Jim, bring me the thermometer. I think Mike has a fever." Mike did have a fever, but it was slight. "Do you think I should stay home?" Jim asked. "Oh, I don't thmk so. If it weren't so important for you to bethere, ''d say yes, but I think he'll -be all right." "T could stay tonight and fly out in the morning." "Too expensive. I think it's just his tonsils again. I'll take him to the doctor in the morm- 9 ing. Art train time Gramps wasn't back. It was the first time she hadn't taken Jim to the station, but she couldn't take Mike and she couldn't leave him alone. Somehow, saying goodbye to Jim on the front step left her in a turmoil. As the cab pulled away from the curb she thought she saw Grarnps coming up the street, but before the figure got to their corner, it crossed over, so she went inside. The house was so silent Margaret felt a sudden weight about her. She didn't like the quiet. Michael cried once and she went in to him, but he was asleep when she got there. She felt his head again, and he was hotter. The aspirin had not checked his fever. "Oh, if only Gramps were here." Margaret felt surprised to be wishing for him. She went to get the thermometer and as she did, she remembered when Gramps had broken their former thermometer. He's clumsy, she thought, almost like a child. The little silver thread had pushed its way toward the 103° mark. It frightened Margaret, for though Mike had had fevers before, he had never had one this high. She went to the phone and dialed Doctor Jeff's number. It seemed a long time before the answering service told her that the doctor was out of town. "Would you like me to call someone else?" Margaret didn't know any other doctor. ""No. No, I think it will be all right." Margaret was suddenly aware that the front door had opened and closed. "Gramps. Is that you?" "Ves." "Would you come here, please? Mike's sick and I'm shaky." "Sick? What's wrong?" "Oh, I think it's his tonsils again, but his fever's high." "Well, call the doctor." "For goodness sakes, I did." Margaret was aware that the tone of her words was _ sharp. They were often lately. Gramps could be so exasperating sometimes. "Will you get me some water?" "He seemed all right this morning.... Where's Jim?" "Gone to Denver. You knew "Oh, yes. I forgot. Too bad you didn't know Beanie was sick before he went." "We did know." "You knew? How come he went?" GRAMPS AND BEANIE "Because he had to. Here, will you please help me lift Mike up?" "Mike.... Son. Do you want a drink of water?" "T never left town when one of my children was sick." "Oh, Gramps. Times are different now. He can get back in a couple of hours if I need him. Mike, honey, here's a drink of water." "Gramps, hold me up." Mike's voice was heavy. "Do you hurt any place, dear?" Margaret asked him. "My throat.": "See? His tonsils." Margaret sounded almost triumphant in her diagnosis. "I fear he's got the virus throat. The boy down the street had it. It's real bad. Doc worked with him for days." "Tt's only-his tonsils.... Why don't 'you go. In and get ready? Your dinner is in the oven." "T'll just have a bowl of bread and milk in a minute." MiarcareTt went to her room when Mike had settled again. She had to write Bob and Helen, who, she knew, would be upset with her for putting Gramps in a home. But it was easy for them to talk. They had large families and had never had room for him for more than a week at a time. They didn't know. How childish he had become and seemed to be oblivious to the amount of care he needed. Margaret had put off writing them as long as_ she dared, but she must get at it tonight. She had planned very carefully the wording of the letter. She would tell them that for his own safety he should be where he had constant watchcare. He 345 MAY 1964 also should have a better diet, and he refused to eat for her. She would have to be sure to tell them how he went for long walks and worried her so. And, oh, yes, how lonesome he seemed to be. She felt sure they would want him to be where there were friends his own age. Margaret had just finished Helen's letter when she heard a strange muffled sound coming from Mike's room. She was surprised to see Gramp still there, sitting on a chair in the dimness. "Was Mike crying?" "No." -"T thought I heard something." '"When's the doctor going to get here? His head's awful hot." "Doctor Jeff's out of town "Out of town? But you said you'd called a doctor." "T did, but.... Do you think I'd better call someone else?" "He's sick, Marg. It's not his tonsils." Gramps had an air of authority about him now, as he had when he was the head of a household. "You get a doctor right away. I've sat with children a lot, and I know when they're Siglc,"' Miarcaret looked at the old man, and there was no mistake about the trace of wetness on _ his wrinkled cheek.: She sat on the edge of the bed near him and the tightness in her throat was like a wet sponge that kept swelling. "Marg... I'm sorry I can't remember not to call him Beanie. He looks so much like your father." "Oh, Gramps...." "And just now... Mike looks so little and sick, just like my 346 children when they had the measles. We nearly lest your Dad that time. Oh, the nights Mother and I sat up with those youngsters...." Margaret looked-at the old man. It was as though she were seeing him for the first time. He had a fine profile, and though his skin had been browned from the sun and his brow was wrinkled, there was a kindness to his looks. A kindness and devotion that Margaret well remembered from her early childhood. She had heard time and again her father tell how his parents had _ uncomplainingly cared for the four of them. Gram and Gramps had nursed them through sicknesses, worried about them night after night when they stayed out late. She gave Gramps a big hug. "Gramps. I will call a doctor now. And also the home." "The home?" "Yes. To tell them they are losing their star boarder." "Now, Marg, you and Jim don't want an old nuisance...." "Oh, yes we do... You're the most wonderful old nuisance I know. Jim never would have thought of taking you away if it hadn't been for my complaining." "But you've had good reason to complain." "Now, Gramps, it's all settled." "Gramps." Mike opened _ his eyes. "Don't go away." "See, he needs you and so will the new baby. Nobody can play froggy like you." Marg left the room then. She made the phone calls, tore up her letter, then she went into the kitchen to fix two big bowls of bread and milk. fas' Mrs. Carleen Maley Hutchins, fifty-two, a motherly housewife from Montclair, New Jersey, is also an accoustical scientist who is astonishing the musical world with the stringed instruments she designs, builds, and tests electronically in her own home. Strings have remained unchanged for practically two hundred years, but for modern musical compositions, their tonal range is inadequate. She has overcome this difficulty in the family of instruments she has_ created, ranging from a huge bass to a smaller than normal violin. Top musicians eagerly seek to purchase her handiwork. Mirs. Jayne Baker Spain, president and owner of the AlveyFerguson Company, in Cincinnati, Ohio, manufacturers' of conveying equipment for industry, employs blind workers to assemble conveyers. In Salonica, Greece, she was asked to prepare an exhibit for the annual International Trade Fair there. This she did, but since all workers were expected to be Greek, she taught six Greek boys and girls who were blind how to assemble a wheel conveyer moving materials around factories and warehouses. They fitted together 451 small parts, threading fifty axles through one hundred and twenty skate wheels, applying dozens of bolts and tightening them to an exact degree of tension. Visitors to the fair found this sight incredible. The human _ achievement was far greater than the industrial. Mirs. Mary Loveless of Cornell University Medical College, New York, has been working for seventeen years on immunizing patients allergic to the stings of various kinds of bees. She captures bees, then, with a delicate operation, removes the venom sac for the innoculating agent. Having done this more than thirty thousand times, she can now do a bee a minute. Bee stings are very harmful to many people, in certain instances even causing death. Tue third annual Shakespearean Festivel on the College of Southern Utah campus (Cedar City, Utah) which will be presented July 9 through 25, will include "Twelfth Night," 'Macbeth," and "Midsummer Night's Dream," in rotation. Last year Festival goers were counted from thirty-eight States and a dozen foreign countries. Mrs. Lee Thompson assists in the costume department, and Kahiki Long, a student from California, will handle lighting, as she has since the inception of the Festival in 1962. 347 EDITORIAL Helle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselo: Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer The Lighted Window The beloved words and symbols which apply to mothers and characterize their devotion are long remembered, and their comfort and inspiration have become an aura of light that leans across the years. They are like the guidance and the glory of a lighted window. A woman now in her busy and responsible middle years remembers that her mother was orderly, and by that rule of heaven, she arranged her own life to the best of her ability and gave her children the feeling that order prevailed where willing hands and noble spirits controlled the enlarging world around them. Before this mother opened her door and entered her morning kitchen, she dressed her hair beautifully, piled it high in a golden crown. She tied a clean starched apron around her waist, wore, also, a smile of courage as personal adornment. Then, whatever trials the day might bring could be met with a greater degree of order and serenity, because the beginning was good. In this family a sense of order and direction pervaded all of the homes of that heritage. A young mother, faced with a small income and many expenses, in her home on a small acreage at the edge of a city, patterned after the mother strength consistent in her family. Beginning with the pioneer grandmother, they were provident women. The grandmother cared for long rows of green garden vegetables, she carried baskets of yellow peaches from her orchard; she raised bees and separated the golden honey and the wax and sold the products in the town markets. She was like the Biblical woman who was praised within the gates, for her family, down through the generations, were provident mothers who gave an abiding security to their loved ones. A Relief Society work meeting counselor remembers her dear mother as a needle and thread woman, her fingers moving quickly in and out of a patchwork quilt, or deftly stitching lace to white organ- 348 dy pinafores to adorn her daughters — or the mother's hands guiding a piece of yellow flowered print under the needle of a sewing machine. This long-remembered mother was weaving beauty with her fingers and stitching the blessed feeling of love and security into the spiritual apparel of her children. Fach time a stake chorister directs the Singing Mothers, in the background of her attitude and her love for music, is the memory of her mother, and the tall and elegant organ that graced the family parlor. On winter evenings and in the summer twilight the mother played hymns and sang the lyrics... "where the pure breezes blow and the clear streamlets flow..."; ''fit home for the people of God _.": "behold 'tis eventide...." And when that mother died the ornate minarets of the organ were removed, and the organ was taken and carefully set up in the Relief Society room in that small mountainrimmed town. All music is a heritage to a chorister daughter in another place and in another land — and the memory of mother is associated with the word music, and is a singing forever Five daughters, who have now become mothers and grandmothers and preside in homes where the motif is light, remember a lighted window in an adobe ranch house in the lonely hills. The light in the window was a kerosene lamp, with a trimmed wick and a polished chimney. It was a symbol that a mother — a true homemaker — lived and reflected an abundance of light that drew her family at eventide to their home, where all the ways and all the words were shining and uplifting. And now that those daughters have gone their separate ways, they are bound together and are distinguished and marked as a family by the influence of a mother who stood at a lighted window. Each woman in this time of change and uncertainty, may be guided by the enduring heritage of mothering, and each may stand at a lighted window. —V. P. C. 349 What Is a Mother? Margaret Richards Wuart is she... Mother? Girl, woman, wife, and a mother? Motherhood — the culmination of all the years of growing up! The fulfillment of her dreams and hopes and plans! Just what is she... This mother? Well, it's certain that according to today's wage scale she is worth her weight in gold. Housekeeper, cleaning woman, laundress, seamstress, cook, nutrition expert, chauffeur, nurse, wise shopper, bargain hunter, business manager, and executive vice-president of one of the busiest and most demanding institutions in her country — the home! Is this all she does? Oh, no! This is merely the busy-work that occupies her hands while her mind and heart and soul are intent upon a higher calling. Motherhood — a sharing in creation! A sharing in nurturing — a sharing in exaltation, as she sows the seeds in her children's souls that will, in large measure, determine their harvest in adulthood — and in eternity! Teacher, counselor, advisor, example — is there any greater influence for good or evil in human life? Oh, Mother, what a grave responsibility is yours, and what infinite opportunity! Security, affection, a deep and unselfish love — these are your first special gifts to your little one that no one else can give quite so well as you. And what about the unnumbered things you teach that no one else can teach quite so well as you? It is from you a child learns love — love of God, love of the gospel, love of family and friends. It is at your knee a child learns prayer. It is your example that teaches thoughtfulness, courtesy, honesty, respect for authority, obedience to law and to the laws of God. Yes, Mother, God himself has given you a calling, in importance second to none. May he, likewise, bless you with the strength and courage, with the wisdom and love, to enable you to fill in fullest measure your sacred calling here and now, and to secure your place as a priestess queen beside your husband for eternity. 351 Hazel Sowards Cannon Member, General Board of Relief Society MOTHER'S life epitomized the spirit of the pioneer, although for many years that last frontier had been settled. There had still been fascinating new trails to blaze with each of her children, and life in the little valley, nestling in its circle of picturesque hills, had been a constant challenge. Her heart yearned for the beautiful, the genteel, and that which was right and good. Sharing her substance was part of living. She traveled many miles to and from the peaceful valley in its circle of lovely hills to bring enjoyment to her family and friends. Many came to her door. Friend and stranger alike surrounded her table, partook of its goodness, and departed warmed and heartened. She was fulfillment of the promise ".... And thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water whose waters fail not" (Isaiah 58:11). She pointed with pride to God's handiwork. Rocks, artistic and delicately colored, interestingly grotesque and hued with the rainbow, satiny smooth or rough textured—she loved them all. The silver-green sagebrush of the desert, the sweet-scented pines of the mountains, the urn-shaped buds of her favorite roses were her delight. She subdued the red clay and reveled in her springtime flowers as they came forth in defiance of the icy fingers of winter. "Anything worth doing at all is worth doing well," she said, and somehow found through infinite patience and an innate sensitivity, the right way to perform each homey task. Her jars of home-canned fruit, iridescent jewels imprisoned in glass, were a work of art; her freshly laundered clothes rivaled the ermine snows in whiteness; and bright palettes of artistically arranged raw vegetables were found on her table long before it was fashionable. It did not take "things" to make her happy. She loved quality but hated ostentation and pretense. Her joys were the simple things—her family secure and snug in a warm house during the storm, a night's repose in an immaculately clean and comfortable bed, her carefully nurtured shade trees lacing a sapphire sky, the full wheaty flavor of homemade bread, the smile on the tear-stained face of a grandchild. Mother was a valiant pioneer. Her life exemplified that each age needs women who explore and perfect when it is easier merely to accept; who endure with faith and tenacity when to yield is a worldly pattern; who discover happiness in toil when perishable rewards beckon unceasingly; who chart the course for others to follow. 352 Sara O. Moss Bic Jim looked at his sleeping wife, with little Jim's chubby hand on her cheek. Lucky kid, little Jim, to have a mother like Millie and a grandmother like Mom. Big Jim sat down in the chintz-covered chair and stretched his long legs. He gave a deep sigh, relaxing with half-closed eyes. Mother's Day! Man, for the packages! It was worse than Christmas at the post office where Big Jim worked. There had been thousands of pieces of mail — packages, cards, and many orders. Yes, it had been worse than Christmas. He dozed a little, but now and then he glanced at the package which lay on the dresser, with its gay wrappings. It was Mom's package. Miillie had seen to that. Tomorrow they would take it over to Mom, the three of them. It seemed silly, so much fuss over Mother's Day. Still it was a good way to let Mom know how you felt, because a fellow just couldn't say, in so many words, how it was between him and his mother. You couldn't recount how many times Mom had somehow seen you through. Those times when you had needed her most. Big Jim recalled that sick spell, pneumonia, and he could still feel Mom's cool hand on his brow. And that day she had served punch and cookies to the fellows as they practiced football in the backyard. That made Mom a regular with the team, and Big Jim had been so proud of her. When he was ten, she had sold an heirloom to buy him a bicycle. At seventeen he had a handsome pair of new shoes to wear to a school dance, but it was years later that Jim learned Mom had used a prized little sum she was saving for a new carpet. Big Jim couldn't remember when Mom hadn't stood out on the fringe of things to give a helping hand. Those long years without Dad, Mom somehow made up for them. She laughed for Jim's sake, when he knew she was crying within her breast. And then Millie had come into their lives. Sweet, beautiful Millie. Mother of Little Jim. Mom loved them both. She reached out her heart and her hands and her love now was wrapped around all three of them. Big Jim rose, and covered Millie's shoulder with the spread as the breeze blew the curtain. Then he went out the door and started the car in the driveway. As he drove slowly down the street, he knew he couldn't enumerate all the things that Mom had done for him and Millie and Little Jim, but he would walk into her house, stretch out in the big leather. Chair that had been Dad's. Then he would take the plate with the new-baked brown bread and the glass of milk that Mom would offer him. After that he would lean back with a smile and say, "Thanks Mom. Thanks for everything." 353 Winona F,, Thomas 1 ucur state that I am not an avid opera fan. In fact, most operas which rate the word grand in front of their titles, leave me cold. I admit they are way above me. The music may have all the skillful harmonies, and the singers have talent and all the necessary techniques, but operas must be melodious or I don't like them. Verdi's La Traviata is a grand opera with an interesting plot and pleasing melodies. The first time J heard a recording of it, I sat so charmed that I hardly moved a muscle until it was finished. It still has that effect on me. Every time I hear it I am completely enthralled. Last summer when we were in Chicago, some nice people took us to Kungsholm's Miniature Grand Opera Theatre, where we saw La Traviata performed by thirteen-inchhigh puppets while we listened to the libretto from recordings made in the Metropolitan Opera House. It was an experience I shall never forget. Last week I heard the announcement that the opera would be broadcast on the radio from the stage just as it was presented in the Metropolitan Opera House. I was glad that I had been slightly ill all week. It would give me an excuse to stay home, and here on the farm I could attend a production of La Traviata. I did the housework early and changed into a dress suitable to 354 listen to grand music. I had taken the curlers from my hair and was applying some make-up when the announcer, who introduces. The opera and briefs the listeners on the cast and continuity, came on the radio. As he told who the principals were, and who would sing Alfredo's and Violetta's parts, he was almost drowned out by the sound of a heavy truck coming into our driveway. As the overture started, footsteps clomped up across the porch, and a door was opened and slammed shut. "Come and take me to the field," a masculine voice comimanded. "The tractor's not working, and I am getting behind in my spring work. I just ordered a new one. The dealer is bringing it down. He may be at the field already. Please hurry!" I didn't turn off the radio. 1 didn't want to miss one single note as I went out, and I wanted to hear what was being played as I came back into the house. As there was no radio in the truck, I listened to the chug and rumble of the motor instead of music. We left the highway and turned down the lane that led to the field. There wasn't anyone there. "Do I have to wait?" I asked. "Yes, you better. Maybe he's had trouble. I might have to nde back to the house with you." "There he comes now," I said, VERD ON THE FARM. Was 'ready OF a quick getaway, The big truck turned in driver come and t one thirty, and rll for lunch | nd bring back 4 can of gas" a So were husband's O WS. Of the air," the announcer Said, SINE exquisite. Y as she died in Alfredo' ad no Tadio, h drove jt Out of th €do's arms. Nd the Curtain falls on Verdj's € way and got m & Car out of asterpiece," the announcer said the garage, « © Principals will now take their I didn't join in the applause of the audience, [ft stated in MY ears. 355 nd tuned jn Curtain cal]s " Ask Mrs. Bratthwatt@ cer. Miss. Braithwaite is the most fabulous woman I've heard of in ages. She has seven children and never does a bit of work herself. She has her family so well-trained that all she has to do is organize and supervise. She spoke at a neighborhood meeting a few days ago and told us just how to do it. - I have only four children: Charles eight, Steven six, Daniel four, and Lucy two, but I'm just positive that I can get the same results. Oh, it's not that I mind work but, as Mrs. Braithwaite says, "No child should learn to be a drone. Each individual must learn that work is important. The work habit must be established early." Two days ago I started the "everybody works" routine. I carefully decided on all the jobs that needed to be done and wrote them on slips of paper. 'This makes work more like a game, Mrs. Braithwaite says. Fach child then drew to see which chore he was to do. They were so enthusiastic that I congratulated myself on my efficiency. Charles started to vacuum with a vigor that could only mean scars on the furniture but, after all, he had to learn. Steven started to dust the furniture with a pushbutton type of polish, and Daniel washed the windows, also with a can of window spray. Lucy's job was to pick up off the floor. She really was too young to try anything else. 356 ASK MRS. BRAITHWAITE I settled down to a pile of correspondence. Everything was delightful for ten minutes. Charles started to suck up his sister with the vacuum, and I had to oversee his project. While I was pulling Lucy's dress out of the vacuum hose, Steven and Daniel had a spray can fight and the furniture polish won. The front room lost. I separated them and put a child in each room. After an hour, I decided that I had worked my children hard enough and sent them outside to play. This was wise, because the vacuum was clogged with a stocking and other sundries. Both spray cans were empty, although they had started out full. I found my car keys, a glass, two odd shoes, the turtle, a small doll, and a set of blocks in the dirty clothes hamper. Lucy had caught onto the idea of picking up, but unfortunately hadn't chosen the proper places for the objects. I was not discouraged. After all, practice makes perfect, as Mrs. Braithwaite always says. The next day, I decided that the children must help around the house again. Charles' job was to fix supper; Steven was to clean the bathroom; Danny could make the beds; and, again, Lucy could pick up. Tis time I didn't try to do anything else. I decided that all I would do was to supervise. Charles was busy fixing a jellied salad, so I checked on Steven. Cleanser was flying fast through the air and I rescued it about five seconds too late. A giant-size can was used on one bathtub and a sink. I wondered how Mrs. Braithwaite could afford to let her children help. The price of cleaning agents was mounting. I was sure the bathroom would be clean, so I checked on the bed-making project. Lumps that hadn't been in the beds before now appeared. I found several large trucks stashed underneath the covers. "The trucks are tired," Danny explained. By the time I had rescued the toys and helped my four-year-old make the beds, Steven had finished cleaning the bathroom. There was no dirt to be seen anywhere, because it was covered up with gobs of green cleanser. I finished scraping the cleanser off the bathtub and went to check on Charles with dinner. He had decided (and started) on the full menu for dinner. It consisted of six packages of jello mixed with three quarts of fruit cocktail; four cans of frozen juice (orange, grape, pineapple, and limeade mixed together), peanut butter sandwiches, and pancakes. I fished three cans of tuna fish out of the dirty clothes hamper and decided that perhaps I had missed part of Mrs. Braithwaite's speech. My problem wasn't that my children didn't want to work. It was just that they helped too hard. They threw themselves into the task too thoroughly. "Work is fun," Charles announced. "What can we do now?" I decided that perhaps Mrs. Braithwaite could help me. I was sure she must have run into the same problem herself. 1 phoned her immediately. "May I speak with Mrs. Braithwaite?" "Mrs. Braithwaite isn't here," a voice informed me. "Is this her daughter?" "No, the children aren't home. I'm just the cleaning woman." 357 - She was y, ceiving her letters With g tity and love ely special to Teat antici us. Pation, Each Word was Tead after dinner while ned round table. We Were so excited €T Was over. FaC€ was said hurried} don't think Portions of food. CaN Visualize fiy exuberant children all chattering at o € sat in silence, €ach child wast: for him or her. Tandma always Temembered to My heart alw om ' T Pethaps she far that Violet lS such a good little mother's SNe said, "] SUPPose you childre e, and fat ck st wherries."" day Without 3 Praise and belief in us ea T letter fro I for another while ough Grandma'. Ett nY complaints Or grum Out the time m Grandma bles. Our inspired » and we would Were aware of every lovely thing Which Gog created Tst robin jn Spring, the Violets and PUSSY Willows alo ite clouds in summer; wild Dirds, icicles and AWistmas trees in us and 4PPreciated ang enjoyed the t € "Precocious 12" was 1 which she 'aved Pennies to spend € always €nclosed 4 little Prayer at the close of each letter. With great NOstalpia. Please, may | Contribute as much Christian Spirit and love for w Selfish living as did our dear Grandma, 358 n the €nvelope; then We all quieted dow. Tandma js them to my children, along with Many of her } I cherish the L heaven now. T stilj Say the p vers she faught us, 7 have taught tiful thoughts MOries of Grandma'; letters and reflect their charitable contents hone rang. Just such a simple thing as that. But it was in the dark hours of the morning. As soon as the first loud ting exploded the silence of our sleeping household, my heart began pounding, and my only thought was, "Something has hapI picked up the receiver and said, "Hello," A man's voice boomed at me. "Js this Mr. Schriber?" "No." patience, the sacrifices, and the helping hands you applied at the right times and places. You gave all of yourselves for your children. I would that I may have the I'm thankful the Phone rang last night. It woke me up in several ways. It could easily have been sad news from home. Some day or some night it will be, but, Mom 359 Cuopte your baby in a colorful crib quilt. Always a valuable addition to any layette. These low-cost quilts are also nice to make for gifts or for money-making items for your Relief Society bazaar. Let your imagination go to work, and you will be pleasantly surprised at the beautiful and clever ideas you can discover at the amazingly low price of about three dollars a quilt. A Flannel Quilt For a simple but serviceable beginning, buy a yard and a half of unbleached muslin, a one-pound quilt batting (this is enough for two crib quilts), and a yard and half of plain-colored or figured flannel. Be sure the fabric is at least one yard wide, as this is enough, but if you want the quilt to be a little wider, sew a border of a contrasting or matching fabric all around, having wider strips along the sides. Better yet. Buy your fabric in the drapery department as it comes wider, and is of better quality. Flannel makes a soft, cozy quilt back. It wears well and is inexpensive. You may want to make both the front and back of flannel. If you are artistically inclined, dream up any number of figures from babyland to trace on the muslin. Draw your chosen designs on a piece of wrapping papeT the same size as your quilt, first, then transfer them to the material with the use of carbon paper. If you need help, there are many coloring books or storybooks with cute figures from which to copy clever little Mother Goose figures or animals. If you don't like to spend the time required for embroidering, you can buy real wax coloring crayons and color the figures in solid colors, then press with a cloth dipped in a strong vinegar and water mixture to set the colors. Here is also a good way to use your textile paints to good advantage. A Satin Quilt For a fancier quilt, you may want to use satin OT similar material. On these, the quilting itself can be your design, and there is no limit to the cute figures you can create by merely quilting around your lightly outlined patterns. Quilt Blocks and Applique You may prefer to make a real old-fashioned-style quilt, using six or eight small blocks, either embroidered or appliqued, and sewed together with strips of the samc 360 f YY ra 4 ( \ a t 4 S / rs~ 7 } ' (- roN / '\ \ N \ ' ' / XN f \ ( / /. \ \ t / " N N ' { y s 7 \. Bon f 7 < AN XN v4 x S " N 7 Sy Sf Ny 4 sy / NX C nthe N ee Me x Ess ==> "° ST eo,' a x am ws waltent 4 P ° >» ', é s. "e ye?,: J Sos Bin ere — oe? ' ee 7 Ly we % by 4 ' \ \ x ©" / ~ XN "3 af % a yy ba ' e "weg pe vu \ 4 ' 7 \ ' iN 7 7N 1 N A. Y _ 4 Y 7 N JN \ 7 S 7 m ves, 4 7 nd 7 a ' n on sy" 1 7 hone | S Ym wo. / ' ' / % 4 t. 7 +. J. } x 4 4. 4 A A. Mole ~—-— inaterial you are using for the back of the quilt. 'This ls a good way to use scraps from other sewing projects. Preparing to Quilt When you get the top of the quilt made, you are ready to put it together with the batting in between. To do this, pin the back of the quilt to the quilting frames. Now place the batting carefully on. Next, pin the top of the quilt in place. Now you are ready to quilt with small stitches. Stitch around each figure, being sure to get through all the thicknesses of material. Now bind all the edges with wide cotton bias or wide satin ribbon, or bias strips of the material you wish. If you don't have quilting frames, you can use your curtain stretchers, or you can make some frames, by tacking strong cotton strips on four long, narrow boards, leaving about an inch of the material at the edge along the board so that pins can hold the quilt in place firmly. You then can buy four clamps to hold the boards together at the four comers. Prop the frames on four chairs. Tied Quilt Here is an idea for an easy quilt. This doesn't need to be quilted, but is ticd with yarn. Buy a bright print which has large animals or circus people, and put a discarded cotton blanket in between the front and the back of the quilt. Thread a large needle with colorful yarn and take one stitch clear through all the thicknesses, pulling the threads long enough to tie. You may baste this way all across in rows and cut the thread in between to tie, There should be a tie every four or five inches in even rows. Do not tie the yarn too tightly, as it may shrink and break. If you would like a quilt which is less heavy, or bulky — one that can be used as a spread as well as a quilt — then make the top of an all-over design and a bottom of good heavy flannel with no batting or other thickness between. Put the top and bottom right sides together and sew on your sewing machine around three sides, leaving the fourth side open to turn inside out. After turning, fold the raw edges of the fourth edge inside and stitch along. This quilt needs no binding. Now, baste along all four edges and around each figure with very long basting stitches. Machine stitch around cach figure with your longest machine stitch. Try not to pull the quilt as you sew, but just gently guide it through, to prevent pucking. Now take out the basting. 361 (b- \ ne yy NZ Sewing Time Dorothy C. Little Is sewing on the agenda today? Then make a clean sweep of it! Plan and organize all the sewing you would like to get done in the next month. Now, instead of sewing today, leave the sewing machine in its case or cabinet and spend the day cutting out your planned articles. Save the mess and bother of cutting out every time you sew, and you can spend more time actually sewing cach time you get out the machine. Plastic bags are perfect for storing scraps of material. When you need a patch, it is easy to see the one you want. Just reach in and get it without disturbing the rest! Plastic bags are also wonderful for storing your good pieces of material. If you do this, you can buy your corduroy in the spring and your light-weight cottons in the fall when they are on sale. With the material on hand, you are more likely to get the next season's clothing made before the next season is half over. If little girl's stiff petticoats are too expensive, buy a pair of sturdy cotton panties instead! Training panties work well if you can get them the right size. Then sew a big, soft ruffle about five inches below the elastic. Sew two or three small stiff ruffles to the big one, add lace, and there is your slip! Remember to use a small needle, and stretch the panty materials as you sew it, as you do when you're sewing elastic. Have it worn over regular panties to save washings. If the children drive you to a frazzle while you desperately zoom through the necessary sewing, you are not very different from the thousands who throw up their hands and go buy all their clothing, ready-made. To keep your own precious individuality, stop trying to keep them contented, and hand them each a button to sew onto an interesting scrap, or start them on some simple embroidery. A four-year-old is not too young to enjoy sewing, with your interest and supervision! Potpourri of Handy Hints Jo M. Stock Plastic tops of small medicine containers make caps for spools of thread. No more tangled threads! Wax the tent floor heavily. It remains clean longer and is easier to keep clean. Add % - 4 cup vinegar to final rinse. Clothes are soft and fluffy. Remove odor from any bottle or other container by filling with hot water to overflowing after thoroughly cleaning. Put peelings and food scraps in the blender. Bury them under a shovelful of dirt and build a rich garden plot. A bit of glue behind the suction cup of a towel rack prevents its ever slipping. Pie crust will not shrink if set aside in the pan for five minutes before trimming and fluting. Cook cauliflower in equal amounts of milk and water, and it will remain snowy white. Remove the core from the head of lettuce and strike the core end sharply on a firm surface. Leaves loosen and are easily removed without tearing. Record a "'letter" occasionally to your child and place it among his favorite tapes. He will find it and not only enjoy it but will give more heed to admonitions conveyed by this method. Gladioli bulbs planted against a house foundation do not freeze. They may remain without separating for two or three years. 362 Appetite | Teasers for Preschoolers _ Margaret Maxwell Meal planning is sometimes a problem for the busy mother of a preschool child. What can she fix that is nutritious and appealing to the older members of the family, and yet is suitable and tempting fare for a small child? The preschooler, even more than the adult, must have a diet which includes a generous supply of foods chosen from the basic four groups: milk, meat and eggs, vegetables and fruits, and bread and cereal products. Yet, as every mother knows, the very foods that are most important to good, allaround nutrition for the preschooler are often those which he likes the least. However, food can be served to the small child in such a way that he will naturally develop good eating habits that will benefit him throughout his life. Introduce new foods to the preschooler casually, without special comment. It is helpful if the rest of the family is in the habit of trying new dishes with enthusiasm, as such an attitude is contagious. Serve only one new food at a time, in a small helping, preferably with an old favorite to go along with it. It 364 is good psychology, if the child rejects the new food, to remove it without comment. Sometimes the casual remark, "I'm not at all surprised you don't like this. This is grown-up food," will make a child have second thoughts about the new dish. Try the new food again in a couple of weeks. The results may be altogether different. The younger child, who is still learning to manipulate eating utensils successfully, finds it a welcome relief to be served food which may be picked up with his fingers. Crisp foods, such as carrot sticks, celery sticks, and toast cut in quarters or strips are easy to eat and generally popular. Hard-cooked egg cut in quarters, chunks of raw, peeled apple, cooked whole green beans, and asparagus spears add interest to the toddler's diet. For the mother of the "picky" eater, here are a few hints. A small, child-size plastic glass, or a cup from a set of play dishes, which can be filled and refilled by the child himself from a little pitcher, may encourage the milk-hater to drink his quota of milk without a protest. A Plates and dishes Served with dollsize Portions of food of reluctant eater to demand Second and even third helpings, But the best help the Parents of the healthy but balky young eater Can give is to regard his Cating, or non-eating, with lance. The fami] il Probab] Want t try them, too. Hey are rich in nourishing Protein, minerals, and Vitamins, and yet they can. Be Served as "party food" that wil] make the small child clean his plate and come back for more EGGNOG AND VARIATIONS 8, Served in a Smal] CUP with a Straw to Z0 With it, may be a happy Solution, BASIC EGGNOG RECIPE Molasses Eggnog: Add 2 'sp. Molasses to above recipe for added iron, Orange Eggnog: Add Yo. Orange juice to above recipe; omit nutmeg,! Egg, S€parated tsp. Sugar Ye. Powdered milk Yc. Boiling Water SPrinkle of nutmeg Beat €8g white Stiff with rotary beater. Eat j Sugar, i Serve With a SPrinkle of Makes about 9 luncheon menu, avorites fo, the Preschoo] Set, With a ter of a Slice of bread. In French erve cinnamon, "Serve over hot With a 8lass of STRAWBERRY SURPRISE CAKES 24 Small whi te, €ltover cake nters may mixed with Vanilla or bu terscotch pud Ing for a essert treat the next da MAY 1964 with chocolate toast. For chocolate toast: If «© raisins mix a heaping tbsp. Of sugar with Y, tsp. | drop red food coloring of cocoa; sprinkle over hot buttered toast. 1 drop Peppermint flavoring, if desired Yy ce. Powdered milk PINK PEPPERMINT PUDDING Blend all ingredients except powdered % c. Hot water milk in small saucepan. Bring to boil, sprinkle of cinnamon Serve warm. Serves 2. Oatmeal Date Bread Anne Marie Astle 1% c. Warm milk 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2 pkg. Dry yeast 2 tbsp. Shortening lc. Rolled oats (uncooked ) "A ¢. Cut-up dates 1 tsp. Salt 3 to 3% c. Sifted flour "A C. Sugar Dissolve yeast in warm milk. Add oats, salt, sugar, cinnamon, shortening, and Mix in flour, Knead on lightly floured board until smooth and elastic. Place in greased bowl; Cover. Let rise until double in bulk (1 to 1¥ hours); punch down and allow to tise again. After second tising shape into loaf; place in greased loaf pan. Cover; let rise again. Bake at 375° for 40 to 45 minutes, Icing While still slightly warm, ice top with mixture of ¥% Cup powdered sugar mixed with enough milk to make a thin icing. 366 4 tbsp. Farina 1 tsp. Sugar Stirring constantly; cook until thickened. Remove from heat; stir in powdered milk. Patricia M. Faas Our staff was invited to the boss' home for dinner. With all the temptinglooking and very delicious foods being served, no one even thought of dessert, when the host asked his wife, "Is there dessert?" "Dessert!" she exclaimed, 'Gf they get any, they'll have to build their own!" In the next moment, our plates were removed and the table hastily set for another course. A fruit dish appeared, loaded with bananas and seedless grapes. Ice cream balls (two kinds) rolled in coconut and flaked nuts, were passed along with several kinds of ice cream toppings. Other fruits were served, including berries, maraschino cherries, and crushed pineapple. After delighted remarks had subsided, we set about building our own desserts. This treat alone has proved to be quite successful in our own family for planning parties and Church get-togethers. It is great fun, very little work for the hostess, and has special appeal for youngsters and. Oldsters of every age. And it is interesting to observe how many exciting personalities a build-yourown dessert can have! Suggested toppings: Chocolate, caramel, butterscotch, marshmallow. Fruit toppings: strawberry, pineapple, boysenberry, raspberry, peach. Other trimmings: nuts, coconut, seedless grapes, maraschino cherries. Janet W. Breeze Are your little ones learning to dress themselves? Iron four-color transfers onto the fronts of undershirts and panties for fewer turnabouts. 367 - Leona Fetzer Wintch ————— oe Home, Our Heaven on Earth || ala it wonderful that we can come home to spout off pent-up feelings that need to be released? We cannot do this in public, so we sometimes behave worst around those whom we love the most. This letting off steam should not be frequent, however. Yet, some explodings, raised voices, and tears of children (and others who are not yet angels) come with disagreements that are a process of growth. The voicing of some differences can, at times, be wholesome. We can even say, "Happy is the home where enlightened discussions characterize the communication between family members." Home should be a calm refuge, a place of warmth, fragrant with kindness. None of us can stand pressures all day long and come home to more of them without having the mortar of life washed out of us. The father of the home likes to have his surroundings neat and pleasing, but when he has to be careful where he sits, be becomes confused and unhappy. To be harassed during work hours and again at home harrows the heart of any man. But if home is a refuge from tensions and frustrations, the peace and love he feels become an annealing balm to him. With the oil of gladness crowning him, he can see unlimited horizons and meet daily challenges with new physical and mental vigor. The demanding, stampeding world can be better met by all of us if we find replenishment in this haven, our heaven on earth. To Be or to Do? That Is the Question D° you sometimes feel compelled to keep moving, going, and doing, even after you are exhausted or have time off? The value of this kind of "busy work" is questionable, because it is not motivated by wholesome purposiveness. The next time you drive yourself without knowing why, reflect on Emerson's saying that it is easier to do than to be. Philosophers have talked about this for centuries, and today psychologists underline the words. When we are insistent on doing rather than being, it is time to become analytical. It is possible that we keep on the go to avoid ourselves, since when we hurry around, we do not have time to measure our goals or our true situations. Then we almost have to force ourselves to find a quiet space and re-evaluate the very factors in our lives that we are trying to repress. The serenity we seck can only come when we face ourselves, because satisfying relationships with others depend on our own good relationships with ourselves. We often harrow our inner peace with bitter ashes of regret. At least weekly, we should take stock of ourselves, repent, partake of the sacrament, and then turn our energies to self-fulfillment. Then we can be, as well as do. 368 oF Love LYoch, tia Alma A. Fernelius, Ogden, Utah, js very busy With housework, 8arden Work, and Relief Society ACtivities and yet She finds time for crocheting, her Principal and Specia] hobby. She has Crocheteg eight bedspreads 4nd nine tablecioths as Well as edgings for Many Pairs of Pillowslips, doilies, Corners for Napkins, and fi:;. Ss tion to her family and her Many friends. She has been a teacher for almost fifty years, and has been a Counselor to three Relief Society Presidents. 369 Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, arrive in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, after traveling across the plains in a company commanded by Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena, whose fiancé died at Winter Quarters, is bitter over her loss and cannot be comforted. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley. They decide to accompany the saints who are leaving for San Bernardino, California, to make a settlement there. Selena is invited to accompany Belle and Josiah, and Lon, still in love with Selena, decides to go with the company. Lon was silent for some time, waging a battle within himself, between what he wanted to do and the thing he felt was right and honorable. Belle, too, lapsed into silence, taking a deep interest in the country around her, as she did wherever she traveled. As they watched the beautiful mountains, both Lon and Belle could see the lead wagons pulling off to the side to stop for the night. Some of the people in the 370 CHAPTER 4 wagon train would find friends here at Provo. This night there would be singing and dancing and the renewal of friendships. Cabin doors would be thrown open to bid the travelers welcome, and hot meals would be provided through the hospitality of these saints, so recently on the trail themselves, "TI can't do it, Belle,' Lon finally said. "You can't do it? But why, Lon?" "Selena doesn't know her own mind right now. I can't ask her to marry me yet." "I'm giving you fair warning, Lon. I know how long you have been in love with my sister, but if you stand by and let this Alfred Quale step into Selena's life you'll not be doing her any favor." "How can you be so sure, Belle? He might be a whole lot better Latter-day Saint than I am. What do you have against him, anyway?" Belle looked at Lon in amazement. "T can't understand you, Lon Holiday, to take such an attitude in this. I guess T've been wrong from the start. I thought you were in love with Selena." "J am in love with her, Belle, and that's the very reason T can't take advantage of her unhappiness and ask her to marry me when she's in such a state of indecision about everything." "T}] get down now, if you please," Belle said. "Sorry to have bothered you, Lon." "Belle," pleaded Lon, as he drew the horses to a halt, "please don't misunderstand me. You know what Selena means to me." "T know that if this Alfred keeps coming around, and she decides to marry him it will be your fault," said Belle as she jumped to the ground and headed for her own wagon. Arter the meeting at which the final organization for travel was worked out, everyone being notified as to whether they were to be in Brother Lyman's group or the remaining half of the wagons which Brother Rich would lead, there was a party of good will held for the travelers. When the dancing began there was Alfred, just as Belle had feared, offering his arm to Selena. Where was Lon? Belle wondered. He had been right there by Josiah just a moment ago. As Selena accepted the invitation and moved onto the roughhewn boards that served as a floor in this building used both for recreation and worship, Belle looked up at Josiah. Their eyes YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING met, and Josiah knew immediately what was worrying his wife. "You heard them make him captain of ten again for the trip. He said he had to go check the wagons under his command while he is still here where there is an anvil and forge if they are neede se "Selena dancing with that Alfred, and Lon out checking wagon wheels! Well, I don't know why I should worry if he refuses to!"' Tue trip at first had been taken leisurely, traveling through the settlements, but the visiting for a night with friends was coming to anend. Lon, never really enthusiastic about leaving the Great Salt Lake Valley, felt again a wave of uneasiness as he listened to the words of Brother Rich. "The company is too large to travel together," he said. "In order to prevent drawing too heavily on the desert springs at any one time, there must be some little distance between the first and second sections of the group. However, we will have places of meeting along the way. When the first section reaches Parowan, it is to wait for the other to arrive. Further plans will be made then for crossing the desert." The assignments had already been made, but the names were read again in order to have no misunderstandings. Lon knew he would be traveling with Brother Rich, while Josiah was included in Brother Lyman's group. The long meeting was drawing to its close, and there was still no sign of President Young. Then Brother Pratt, who evidently had 371 MAY 1964 just arrived at the meeting, stepped into the firelight. He conversed in a _ whisper with Brother Lyman and Brother Rich. The crowd waited expectantly. This was the moment that they had been anticipating since leaving Salt Lake, that of hearing a farewell message from their President, who had been out of the city at the time, making visits to the newer settlements. The announcement was short — simply that President Young would not be present. Lon waited through the closing hymn and the prayer. He saw Josiah and Belle leave to return to their wagon. Across the firelight he watched Selena walking away from the group beside Alfred Quayle, his hand on her arm. Lon could not go yet. He must know. He went at once to where the three apostles stood. "Brother Pratt,'"' Lon said. ""We had hoped to hear from the President. He is in the settlement, isn't he?" "He is," Brother Parley answered. "I called upon him myself. He is most disturbed at the size of the group." "But why?" asked Lon. "Didn't he, himself, place Brother Rich and Brother Lyman in charge of the undertaking? Would he do that and not be in favor of our going?" "He told me that he expected about twenty men, with their families, to go. His statement was that 'the sight of so many of the saints, running to California, chiefly after the god of this world' sickened him and he felt unable to address them." Lon turned away, shaken. Half- 372 way to his wagon he stopped suddenly and raised his eyes to the star-filled skies. Aloud, with no one to hear except the night wind, he vowed a vow. "TI have started this," he said. "T shall help move this company on to California. Nothing shall come between me and the God of heaven, and one day I will return." Just saying the words aloud seemed helpful to Lon. He felt a reassurance that always, wherever he was, he would never permit his actions to cause him to lose his newly acquired testimony of truth. As Lon neared Josiah's wagon, on the way to his own, he saw Belle coming toward him. "I think you should go right this minute and ask them to change you back to Brother Rich's Company, so you will be with us and Selena." "T can't do that, Belle."' There was quiet determination in the words. "I must help as captain of ten where I've been assigned." "You can help just as well in our company. I can't see that it makes a mite of difference." "But it does. First of all, Brother Lyman has Captain Hunt with him. He has been over the route twice before and will be a valuable help to the group, to all of us, in fact. But the leaders are making it a point not to put all the men who have been captains of groups in the lead company. I must stay where I've been placed by those in charge. Brother Rich is the only man we have who has traveled this route." Belle recognized the finality of his decision and the uselessness of argument. "Lon, sometimes I wonder whether Selena really means anything to you." In the darkness it was impossible for her to see the look of pain cross Lon's face. He waited a long moment before he spoke. "Next to the gospel itself, I love Selena more than anything in this world, Belle. And I've been worried all along that I had done the wrong thing in going to California. President Young's deciding against speaking to us tonight has helped confirm my fears. But I've started this thing, and now I have a job to do. You say I could do it just as well in the other company. That's not the only consideration. Refusing to take counsel is the first step along the road to apostasy. I can't let this happen in my case. Whatever is asked of me, that is the thing I must do." Belle fell in step beside Lon, and the two of them walked together back to Josiah's wagon. Selena and Alfred were seated on a log in front of the wagon. Belle went on to the back of the wagon and entered it. Lon spoke to the other two, lifted his hat and would have walked on when he heard Alfred speaking to him. "T heard them read your name with the rear company, Holiday. Did you get it changed back all right?" Lon looked at Selena. She was staring into the fire, not seeing either of them. Lon's heart ached within him at the thought of being separated from her so much more than he had been. He well realized that only upon rare occasions would the two groups be together throughout the remainder of the trip. He turned back to face Alfred Quayle. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "T didn't ask," he said. Alfred whooped. 'What!' "TI didn't ask," repeated Lon. "Man, don't you realize that the grass will be all gone and the water holes dry, time that last company comes along?" "T'll take my chances," Lon answered evenly. He turned to Selena and held out his hand. "Goodbye, Selena. I hope the rest of the trip will be pleasant for you." As the trip progressed, Lon found himself wondering at times, whether he should have asked to remain with the other company. Still, there was always the satisfaction of knowing that he had done as he had been asked. He was beginning to believe that Quayle had other designs, once he arrived in California. Had Lon only known it, Josiah in the wagon train ahead, was beginning to get much the same impression. Quayle had made himself quite a constant rider with Selena. True, she laughed at his jokes, and even Belle had grudgingly admitted that it was more pleasant to have Selena acting like this than in such a state of depression. It was one evening after supper when the women were doing up the dishes that Alfred made the remark that caused Josiah to suspect that Belle had been right in her feelings concerning him. "These wagons move so infernally slow," Alfred said. "Hope there is still some left when we get there." "Some?" asked Josiah, looking up from the gun he was cleaning. "Some what?" "Gold! Oh, I know right 373 MAY 1964 enough that we're a few years behind the rush, but they're still making strikes occasionally. And I mean to make one!" "But I thought you knew," said Josiah. 'I thought everyone in the wagon knew that we're not going to look for gold. We're going only to build another settlement to the glory of the Lord." "You may be,' answered Alfred, looking far away toward the blue mountains to the south and west. "Not me. I'm going to build up the glory of Alfred Quayle. And believe me, it's going to be quite a glory!" Josiah repeated his conversation with Quayle, confirming Belle's fears about the man. She was remembering Josiah's words of just a few short days ago. "Why are you so pessimistic, Belle?" he had asked. "Just because you had Lon Holiday all branded and tagged for your sister, you can't see her with anyone else. You'll have to admit Quayle has cheered your sister up considerable. He's quite a joker," "Oh, he's a joker, all right," Belle had agreed. "He can make Selena laugh, but I don't think he could ever make her happy." "Well, he wouldn't be my choice for Selena, Belle, but you'd better get it through your head that we're not doing the choosing. If she decides on Quayle, reckon we'll just have to welcome him into the family and like it." "T might have to welcome him into the family, but I don't have to like it,' Belle said. 'Oh, it makes me so mad that Lon wouldn't even ask to be put in our company!" 374 "It was a point of honor with him, Belle," Josiah had said. "He felt it was his duty and when Lon Holiday feels something to be his duty, there's nothing or no one going to stop him from doing it." THE close association Lon was having with Brother Rich became a source of pleasure to him, interspersed with his worries concerning Selena in the company ahead. The apostle had been over the route they were traveling some two years before. He remembered many things of interest which he shared with Lon, as the two of them walked together by the side of Brother Rich's wagon and his six yoke of oxen. Lon found it impossible to ride comfortably in his own wagon and see some of the sisters walking beside their own teams of oxen, so often he walked as one or another of them drove his horses. "Tt's the desert that will really test our strength, Lon," Brother Rich had said. "If we can only get across it with all our people and animals, everything else will work out fine." Will it? Lon found himself wondering. The days began to drag and he was most impatient to reach Little Salt Lake Valley and the lead company and Selena. They had been over three weeks on the trail when he heard Brother Rich shout, "There it is! That's Parowan up ahead and the other company." When they pulled up and stopped for camp, Lon could hardly force himself to take the time to check his ten wagons before he went in search of Josiah's outfit. He hoped he would find Josiah and Belle with just Selena YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING and no Company, Especially Withevery container that will hold out the Particular Company he Water, Several] of us are going. Had in mind, € was just ready Can you come along?" to leave when Brother Rich came. "Why, of Course," From root to leaf, the life is the tree, Let this young child take Strength from me. 375 Ye SV yp Gp l, il A WED WORRY Hews " Soouty Society Magazine in 1963 reached an all-time high of 217,397, an increase of 15,827 Over the year 1962. For the Seventeenth year South Los Angeles Stake tops the list, wih a Per- MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 el TIT p tive tii ' +3 te P 64 Lid ta Stake South Los Angeles ( California) 209%, Magazine Representative — Amelia Dellenbach Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 349977 agazine Representative — Imogene Slater South Los =209. Amelia Dellenbach Uuntington ~ eee185. Rache| Liston ave14] dythe Fairbanks lowoog139. Alice Bund es Inglewood ines133. Edith Pew a Vag130. -Virginia F. Nichols Noenigen 129. Eloise Leavitt Phoenix laho Falig125. Alva Knight South Idaho all en125. Lice Moss ane122 edra R. Stott Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages | ie135 Sandra M. Ovey Western a ee116 arrol] Thorpe Sith Comite114 idene McKay Anderson orth Central] e109. Armen [. Da gren orthwestern —100._ va Mertlich Oithern Sigigg 99 aroline Willey Lee Pitcher Orthern ae 99. Ira Mae Palme ew England Stes Ui 96.._A] erta S aker West Centra] enna 96. Aura C orne a 92 elma R est 377 MAY 1964 Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1652 Twin Falls 1041 Huntington Park 1317 Maricopa 1018 Glendale 1307 Burley 1008 Mesa 11154, Wells 983 Ensign 1050 Hillside 976 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No No Subscriptions Subscriptions East Central States 1196 Southern States 639 New England 928 Eastern Atlantic 603 Northwestern States 812 Florida 578 Gulf States 726 Northern States 549 North Central States 667 Canadian 547 Stakes in Which All Wards Received 100% or Over Alameda. ©0222... 22..22-eeeeee eeeee eee eeeRosalie W. Taylor 7200010 0,0) 6Violet Wakley Bear River _....2.000.....222200..22sesecceceeeeeeeeeeeeeesLottie R. Potter Bonneville _..0...222......22220e2eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeene eeeGrace B. Larsen | SX 0)3 Ke) 9Della Chaplin DS 00d (-)Virginia F. Nichols Denver o...... EeiecceceseeeeeeeeseeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeesKatherina Belmain East Idaho Falls.......0000.000000002.000--ee--Sarah Owens East Jordan.....02.0.....02000000c00020eeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeLaVenna S. Cook East Phoenix —...002.020000.000..222cccceecceeeceeeeeeeeGeneva Cluff East Sharon 200 eee eeeWanda Kelly Glendale _22.22222 oie eee eee eeee eeEdythe M. Fairbanks Granite oil leeeteceee ce eeeeeeeee neeJane Henry Grant 2. Eee eee eee eee cence eeeOdell Overly Highland 22.2. Ceeeee eee eeeLucille M. Larsen Huntington Park _20000 0. Rachel Liston Inglewood _...... 2.22 ce cece eeeceeeeeeeeeeeneeneee-Edith Pew Long Beach _ooooo..0..2. Cece cece eeeeeeee eneErma Halls WY EeMaude Y. Jensen Mesa South 2200000000000 cee eee eeeeeeeee-Myrna Skousen Napa 222... Ee eee eensLaVaun L. Allen North Tooele _.00000.0000..00.. Cecccceeceeeeceeeeeee ee Mildred H. Sagers Norwalk 22.20.2220 icee cee eeceeececeneceeeeeeeeeeKathryn D. Mullikin Oakland-Berkeley |... LaVon B. Johnson Palmyra 222i ee sence eeeneeeesEleanor D. Olsen Parleys 2.222.220. Cee eeeGenevieve M. Lewis Phoenix ooo cece ceceAlva Knight Phoenix West 2.0000000000.200ccoceocccceeeeeeeeeGeraldine Slaven Pocatello...0.000...0000000..2.. A... Alice Brandt | S05 010) 0: Nora Perdue BS 1-16 (0) 6X6 (¢Nedra R. Stott St. Joseph 222sNira P. Lee Scottsdale 222020000000 ceeeeeneeeeeeee-Anna Lee Gooch SS) 01) | 2)June L. Walton South Box Elder... Nila J. Stucki South Idaho Falls 00. Alice Moss South Los Angeles 2.0.00... Amelia Dellenbach South Salt Lake 200000000Hannah Dietrich 378 Temple View............22..-22-.-02-c0----ceeeeeeeeees TOrrance |.........222-----22---eeeeeee eee eceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 9072) | re Wilford......... Ee Woodruff oo... Eeeeeeeee ee eeeeeeeee cece MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 Mabel E. Snow Ivy Higdon Gertrude Fullmer Melba J. Huff Lila F. Madsen Gladys K. Groll Pearl W. Stratton Stakes by Percentages — 1963 South Los Angeles 209 Huntington Park Glendale Mojave Inglewood Burley Las Vegas Phoenix South Idaho Falls Redondo Rexburg Torrance Temple View Whittier Woodruff Alameda Long Beach Shelley Ashley Phoenix West St. Joseph San Diego San Joaquin Oquirrh Pomona Liberty Maricopa Phoenix North Brigham City East Jordan East Phoenix North Box Elder Pocatello Boston Denver Florida Napa Portland South Box Elder West Covina 185 141 139 133 130 129 125 125 122 121 121 120 118 118 117 117 117 116 116 115 115 115 114 114 113 113 113 112 112 112 112 112 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 Yuma Granite Lost River Palomar Reseda San Diego East South Salt Lake Toronto West Boise Alaska Canoga Park East Idaho Falls Santa Maria Scottsdale Grant Holladay Mt. Graham Wichita Ammon Big Horn Bonneville Concord Edmonton Idaho Falls Lake View Mt. Rubidoux North Pocatello Palmyra Parleys Rigby St. Louis Twin Falls Weber Heights Wells Box Elder Ensign Grand Junction Highland Moapa North Tooele 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 106 Zion Park Cumorah Minidoka Oakland-Berkeley Redwood Santa Monica South Bear River Bear River Lake Mead Malad Millcreek Monument Park Nyssa Taber Union Wilford Cassia Cheyenne Columbus Mesa Mesa South Mt. Jordan New Orleans North Seattle Portneuf Provo Reno San Fernando Sevier Star Valley Casper Columbia River Franklin Norwalk Santa Barbara Snowflake Sydney Taylor Tucson Boise 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 379 MAY 1964 East Mesa East Sharon Juab Pasadena Potomac Santa Rosa Burbank Park Reno North San Diego South San Jose West Southern Arizona West Utah East Rigby Gridley Hayward Kansas City Ogden Panguitch St. George East Uvada Yellowstone American Falls Chicago Detroit East Millcreek Granite Park Idaho Las Vegas North Olympus St. George St. Johns San Bernardino Spanish Fork Wind River East Long Beach East Provo Grand Coulee Granger Great Falls Juarez New Jersey North Jordan North Rexburg Riverton South Summit Sugar House Bannock Farr West Garden Grove 380 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 97 96 96 96 Raft River Sacramento South Cottonwood Teton Tooele Washington East Los Angeles Emigration Los Angeles Mt. Logan Nampa Orange County San Juan Blackfoot Calgary Cottonwood Denver West Kolob Milwaukee North Idaho Falls Puget Sound Riverdale Salt Lake San Leandro Santa Ana Covina Oneida Pikes Peak Riverside San Mateo Springville Valley View West Sharon Winder Alberta Cache Cedar East Pocatello Logan Moroni Nebo San Francisco Canyon Rim Deseret Missoula Monterey Bay Roy Salmon River Seattle Weiser 96 96 96 96 96 96 95 95 95 95 95 95 95 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 92 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 Dallas Duchesne East Ogden El Paso Hillside Portland West South Blackfoot South Davis Uintah West Pocatello Albuquerque Bakersfield Cedar West Chicago South Montpelier Richland Timpanogos University West Utah Young Bountiful East Cannon Fresno Houston Humboldt North Davis North Sacramento North Weber San Luis Obispo Taylorsville Virginia Wasatch Benson Billings Brisbane East Cache Gooding Granger North Kanab Lethbridge Nevada Rose Park Tacoma Washington Terrace American Fork Bountiful South Hyrum Lansing Monument Pk. West 86 Philadelphia 86 San Luis Santaquin-Tintic Summit Alpine Bountiful Butte Honolulu Lorin Farr Mt. Ogden New York North Carolina Oklahoma South Ogden Wayne American River Beaver Ben Lomond Blaine Cascade Melbourne Palo Alto Sandy Tampa Bear Lake Corvallis Davis Grantsville Layton Redding San Jose Smithfield Butler Murray South West Jordan Carbon Klamath MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 Midvale 81 Greensboro 75 North Sevier 81 Parowan 75 Roosevelt 81 Bountiful North 74 Sharon 81 Willamette 74 South Sanpete 81 Coeur d'Alene Te Weber 81 Emery 73 Atlanta 80 South Carolina 72 Millard 80 Winter Quarters 72 Raleigh 80 Kearns North 71 Walnut Creek 80 Orlando 71 Clearfield 79 San Antonio 71 Flagstaff 79 Shreveport 71 Lyman 79 Orem 70 Murray 79 Gunnison 69 Pioneer 79 Indianapolis 69 South Sevier 79 Orem West 69 Spokane 79 Manchester 68 Yakima 79 Beaumont 67 Ben Lomond South 78 Cincinnati 67 Craig 78 Macon 67 Fresno East 78 South Carolina West 67 Kaysville 78 Pearl Harbor 65 Lehi 78 Salem 65 Minnesota 78 Glasgow 63 Morgan 78 Fort Wayne 63 Vancouver 78 Sandy East 62 North Carbon 77 Hamilton 61 North Sanpete 17 Leeds 61 Tulsa 77 Illinois 60 Cleveland 76 London 60 Garfield 76 Oahu 43 Kans 76 Sunderland 36 aie ii 76 Limited Participation Lewiston 76 Miami 76 University 66 Auckland 75 B. Y. U. 28 Utah State Univ. 20 — Praver yf or P-«7.4. I Gilean Douglas For all the lost and lonely, The weary and unwise, Lord, send them hands to hold to And understanding eyes. Your sky is benediction, Its stars light up the night — And, oh, the blessed comfort Of a neighbor's candlelight. 341 382 Relief Society Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful South Box Elder Enroll Subscri ment | No. Ptions Pet. STAKES ON Magazine Representative Rosalie W. Taylor Mariam D. Johnson Viola B. Wynder Eddis J. Fidel Louise B. Whitby Erminnie Johnson Marvel D. Sunderland Violet Wakley Yvonne Boyne June Davies Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Lottie R. Potter Aletha Gillins Marelda H. Cutler Geneva H. Pace Hannah B. Pitcher Phyllis Borders Maud J. DeVore Helen B. Evans Vera E. Clifford Marion Hugentobler Grace B. Larsen Della Chaplin Beula Nelson Janice G. Stewart Lucille F. Mason Cleo N. Dixon HONOR ROLL — 1963 Relief Society Detroit Duchesne Fast Cache East Idaho Falls East J ordan Fast Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millcreek East Ogden Fast Phoenix Fast Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El] Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Fresno East Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Enroll4 Subscriptions Pet. Ment | No. Magazine Representative LaVenna S. Cook Ethel M. Lemons Fairie K. Sessions Elva M. Brown Doris N. Barney Katherine W. Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff Grace K. Meadows Eva J. Slick Myrtle Burtenshaw Wanda Kelly Helen Johnson Maud Taylor Bentley Sarah K. McKay Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Nellie M. Freeman Vera M. Williams Dorma P. Barton Edythe M. Fairbanks Viola Gold Marjie Barrus MAY 1964 Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Hayward Highland Hillside 384 Relief Society Layton Lehi Leicester Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Malad Maricopa Melbourne Mesa Mesa South Miami Midvale Millard Millcreek Milwaukee Minidoka Minnesota Missoula Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park EnrollJSubseriptions ment 979 715 280 656 344 778 603 630 805 665 337 560 597 905 386 1085 568 427 820 653 520 347 750 447 524 311 547 268 839 536 Monument Park West 688 No. 809% 55415 214 569 262% 879 552 735} 680 630 369 441 618 1018 324% 1115% 585 323 660 523 540% 326 785 347 474 330 759 245 743 559 588% Pet. 83 78 76 87 76 113 92 117 85 95 110 79 104 113 84 103 103 76 81 80 104 94 105 78 91 106 139 91 89 104 86 Magazine Representative Bernice S. Earl Rosa M. Ashton Glenda M. Orr Beulah Manser ReNae B. Larsen Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Bernston Erma Halls Marva N. Ralph Doris W. Clark Roma Jardine Vera Hutchison Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Teresa E. Harrison Julia N. Kerby Myrna Skousen Marion H. Madsen Hazel Anderson Leah D. Wood Martha J. H. Matern Carol Jach Lova Taylor Barbara G. Toomer Betty Jean Stahl Geneve R. Swapp Alice Bundies Lilly B. Lovejoy Lola McCammon Ruth B. Parkinson Patricia S. Lowder Relief Society Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Phoenix West Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Pomona Portland Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood EnrollSubscriptions ment 816 656 695 713 684 675 308 497 783 529 389 848 409 639 436 434 387 614 480 446 566 455 519 406 530 491 186 227 360 530 262 No. 798 612 794 676 732% 570 338 490 781% 564 290 853 351 800 491 504 361 485 539 510 629 408 535 409 548 462 178 182 299 644 276 Pet. 98 93 114 95 107 84 110 99 100 107 75 101 86 125 113 116 93 79 (112 114 111 90 103 101 103 94 96 80 83 122 '105 Magazine Representative Donna B. Lewis Verneta Larson Cleo K. Hales Ruth M. Clark Eleanor D. Olsen Noreene R. Burke Amaretta H. Groves Mary H. Simkins Pearl E. Rohde Genevieve M. Lewis Mary L. Stubbs Zelma McCune Pauline Bishop Alva Knight Zina S. Coates Geraldine S. Slaven Bertha P. Fox Rura J. Woodall Alice Brandt Nora Perdue Alice D. Shepard Arelie Reznick Lottie M. Dewey Susan Roberts Deseret Bullock Selna Fern Burbidge Ann Nye Myrtle M. Dixon Maxine Hansen Nedra R. Stott Minnie W. Herrin MAY 1964 w oo w Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma 380 386 699 527 792 680 611 645 930 951 493 653 444 397 355 455 452 596 399 767 825 798 284 698 518 700 466 451 473 648 604 492 780 723 370 298 356 757 544 751 580 652 510% 763 900 547 598% 388 386% 365 387 507 459% 340 678 773% 770% 305 679% 458 538 481 365 501 570 618 513 819 714 315 Romona T. Dickson Betty A. Cook Flora John Norma G. Erickson Elaine Passey Iona Hazen Alice W. Malstrom Jeanette L. Nelson Lois Madsen Ida Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch May Probert Beth S. Robison Gloria Dawn Phillips Thyra Stoddard Sue Kapp Parthenia H. Rhead Katherine L. Bailey Helen W. Barber Lucy Bingham ReNeen S. Andrews Sara Fisher Myrtle B. Park Patricia H. Dana Genniel B. Watson Lillian Bulman Clarissa J. Sorensen Mildred H. Sagers Lola B. Senstra Kathryn D. Mullikin Marian Mathewson LaVon B. Johnson Chloe F. Summerill Irva Epperson Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Sandy 466 | 427 573 712 721 848 441 658 497 567 861 581 710 484 532 510 585 324 200 772 838 818 359 478 701 451 811 485 454 720 439 561 201 666 555 481 428 632 862% 644 911 A416 610 480 459 746 529 680 473 525% 499 673 346 182 725 823 937 394 A477 719 416 936 400 454 683 413 480 176 620 465 Doris Young Georgia H. Samuelson Wanona Mordue Mary K. Welker Agnes Merkley Ora Stallings Margie P. Peterson Isabelle F. Sugden Blanche B. Densley Eva Percival Beverley L. Lundstrom Valois H. Bangerter Adelle M. Gorsch Sylva Graf Agnes S. Pickett Utahna L. Butler Nira P. Lee Margaretha Evans Sarah Heist Hudlow Frances L. Kooyman Naomi B. Mansfield Deon Phelps Lorraine E. Sharpe Ethel M. Burningham Elva Kershaw Gertrude P. Terry Ethel Martin Elaine C. Hewett Beverly A. Gifford Georgan H. Burtenshaw Mary C. McDonald Hazel Haynie Isabel H. Jurinjak Ruby Elwood Louise R. Neff MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 386 Relief Society Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House I-| ment No. Pet. ~ 384 | 94 490 | 500 | 102 217 | 237 | 109 806 | 847 | 105 574 | 582 |101 407 | 348%| 86 369 | 401 863 | 784%! 91 869 | 891% | 103 549 | 447 | 81 330 | 971% 752 | 622%) 83 763 | 775 709 | 744 776 | 696 | 90 409 | 453 512 | 493 | 96 660 596 | 90 456 | 569 791 (1652 562 | 476 | 85 469 | 514 807 | 650 | 81 480 | 378 | 79 432 | 418 | 97 376 | 375 695 | 682 | 98 593 | 414 | 79 691 | 639 | 93 704 | 724% 946 | 918%! 97 STAKES ON HONOR Magazine Representative Ethel Blood Colleen M. Dial Louise Newbold Helen G. Hanson Verna F. Baldwin Ella H. Sandstrom Anna Lee Gooch Dorothy C. Newman Manetta Hansen Addie G. Edwards June L. Walton Neta T. Miles Lucilia S. Peterson Meda P. Hupp Agnes D. Cox Nila J. Stucki Anna V. L. Lindman Faye N. Blood Alice Moss Amelia Dellenbach Hazel Goodwin Hannah Dietrich Iris D. Anderson Vera Smith Martha A. Lambert Maud B. Post Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Donetta Anthon Leta Coffman Nellie J. Ehlers Relief Society Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wichita Enroll-, Subscriptions ment 540 916 519 527 508 602 309 972 504 604 779 637 316 676 322 521 415 814 604 406 342 748 628 619 916 154A 659 664 648 509 729 526 229 No. 520 811 498 581 616 613 237 L041 455% 628% 695 567 313 626% 252 459 332 716 577 352 292 602 674 564 983 828 730 544% 580 474 725 622 247 Wwe eieg Magazine Representative Bertha Gillette Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ruth Florence Rennie Ivy Higdon Belva Jones Beverly Johnson Lavella Pace Erma B. Taylor Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Lavern B. Singleton Mae T. Hall Dorie N. Walton Edna M. Mitchell Cassandra L. Waddoups Pearl Hartzell Ruby Price Hicken Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodliffe Ruth Taylor Gonda DeBoer Alma M. Peterson Edna Hardy Gertrude Fullmer Edith Coleman Lucille C. Hales Virginia B. Anderson Alta Holmes Ethel S. Taylor Nola L. Stubbs Melba J. Huff M. Marcella Meador ea MAY 1964 38 ~ Summit Sydney Taber Tacoma Tampa Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Relief Society Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian 373 360 407 429 351 735 616 711 Enrollment 490 273 552 Central Atlantic States 518 Central States East Central States Eastern Atlantic State Eastern States Florida Great Lakes 320 367 425 372 294 748 542 850 Subscriptions No. 433 311 547 Pet. 88 114 99 Clara C. Copley Marion Parton Delves Joan S. Anderson Ruth E. Fowler Aretta L. Booth Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Coats Mabel ER. Snow MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL Magazine Represen tative Leola G. Durrant Midene McKay Anderson Caroline Willey Lee Pitcher Rella Burch White Norma J. Furnell Nyla Morgan Helen Hatch Zelma R. West Ollie Hutchinson Reva Mickelsen Wilford Wind River Winder Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Relief Society Gulf States Trish New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States Southern Australian Southern States Southwest British Texas West Central States Western States 355 409 439 ~—1963 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 890 726 ir 171 970 9928 601 667 554 549 813 812 554 501 806 639 389 29] 455 389 535° 511 890 452 111 106 Pet, Lila F. Madsen Carol Fisher Leola Beddes Phebe Maxwell Effie Nowland Pear] W. Stratton Magazine Representative Marie C. Richards Sandra M. Covey Alberta S. Baker Carmen L. Dahlgren Ira Mae Palmer Eva Mertlich Edna M. Ord Lavon Sturges Elaine B. Curtis Shirley Underwood Laura C. Horne Carroll Thorpe MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1963 The Right Key Luella Foster WHEN John Burroughs once visited the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky, he marveled, as many have, at the echoing rocks around him. When the guide called out, in his heavy bass voice, the sound reverberated, but when John Burroughs tried, he could not strike the right note and the rocks were dumb. After several trials, when only flat, dead sounds reechoed, a beautiful sound, as of wild, sweet violins was heard. At last he had found the right key and the rocks had resounded like the strings of a harp. How many of us often fail to strike the ght key and fail to obtain the response that we are striving for. This may apply to so many things: to our families at home, especially our children; to our classes; to all our associates. Sometimes, the correct approach is more important than we realize. Establishing a suitable background first is usually necessary. We must find the nght key before the desired returns can be expected. Most of us have learned to practice this in our daily contacts. At least, we realize the need for it. We know that we obtain the best response when we have used the magic key. It may be one of many virtues, but I believe that consideration of others encompasses them all: living the Golden Rule, doing unto others as we would be done by. It doesn't cost us anything to be polite, to be kind, to show appreciation, to be helpful, or a dozen other qualities. The life of Jesus shows us what he used for the magic key. By a constant study of the scriptures, we, too, may always hope to have it. Whom Should | Seek? Blanche Briggs I asked a friend's pardon for a mistake I made... But the seed was planted. I asked a loved one's forgiveness for a wrong I had done, but the seed in the furrow was deep. I pondered long to make amends, but to no avail. So I prayed to my Heavenly Father for guidance and comfort. Joy and comfort and a peaceful mind were given me. Who can deny there is a Supreme Being? Dear Lord, bless those who have not contact with the Holy Spirit and cannot see the truth before it is too late. 388 J OY Olive Sharp HE Book of Mormon says, "Men are that they might have joy." Then we must look on the bright side of every event and have faith in God who knows what he is doing. If we have faith and ask for his guidance everyday, someday we will understand. How can anyone be downcast? We mortals can only see the present and the past, but not the future. God alone can see that. So we must have faith in him. We should look and see the beauty all around us, the mountains, the rivers, the flowers, the trees, and the birds that are so beautiful. We should see and protect all the beauty in the world about us. If we should catch ourselves finding fault with our friends, we should stop and consider that we do not understand their circumstances, and try to find something good about them, or do some kindness for them. Let us do this now, for we shall not pass this way again. I try to search out the lovely promises in the scriptures, such as the beautiful Twenty-Third Psalm, and I also like the 121st. They are so full of comfort and beauty, and while I am on the subject of beauty, there is something which I must not skip. I have subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine for many years and send seven Magazines for Christmas presents to relatives in Alaska, South America, California, and to a favorite cousin in South Dakota who is not of our faith, but who reads every article. 'The covers are so beautiful, there can be no question about that, as she wrote, "I have the April cover framed and hanging in my room. They are all so beautiful that I would not know which to frame." There are several ways we can dispose of The Relief Society Magazine which will bring joy to many people when we have finished studying the lessons. We can take them to some rest home or hospital or give them to some friend who does not subscribe. I have gathered the Magazines and taken them to a rest home, and the attendant at the desk said they were more than pleased to have them, and the women always looked anxiously for the next ones. I always try to put my best foot forward, but sometimes get my feet mixed up. Ouida Johns Pedersen Many times I buy paper-backed editions of books I wish to read, then when I am finished with them, I feel I can afford to give them away to others. When they have completed them, I ask them to pass the books along to someone else. 'This way, | feel that I really get the most value for my money. The other day I had a wonderful idea that some of the sisters might like to share. Why not get a double subscription to the Relief Society Magazine? I am always wanting to cut something out, a recipe or an apt quotation from an inspirational article. Some times, I would like to share the recipes with a friend, or send a poem to someone | feel might enjoy it. At the same time, I want to save my Magazines for future lesson material and reference. The modest price of the magazine makes this a little luxury I can indulge myself in without feeling guilty. This year why not "Double your pleasure," double your subscription! 389 -. \ ey Aaa FROM THE FIELD \ \ 4 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material f Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and ty Handbook of Instructions: RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES TT TTiLoOI Litt rt Northeast British Mission Relief Society Conference August 10, 1963 Naomi D. Thorn, President, Northeast British Mission Relief Society, reports: "In our August conference, we shared a day of knowledge, mixed with talents. Sister Esther Harmer showed us new ideas in bread and roll making. Our spiritual appetites were filled as the previews of the year's lessons were presented. 'A stitch in time saves nine' could have been our theme for the highlight of our day's activities. Sister Jean Law demonstrated quilt making, which is a new idea for our English saints. Musical numbers and inspiring words from our leaders and sisters of the various districts renewed our desire to serve and share our Relief Society with others." 390 NOTES FROM THE FIELD ' North Weber Stake (Utah) Homemakers' Talent Festival September 13, 1963 sherbet, as refreshments for the Occasion. Printed booklets, Containing the recipes of all the different Cookies, Were Presented to all those who attended. An interesting display Was a Welfare table, Showing 4a year's Supply of food for one individual, with literature and information on storage available to everyone. In One of the most outstanding and best attended events we have held, and we 391 oJ MAY 1964 Northwestern States Mission, Mid-Columbia District Indian Articles on Display at 's Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair, The Dalles, Oregon, September 12, 1963 Verna Geneal L. Wood, President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Mid-Columbia District of the Northwestern States Mission sponsored a Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair. The women's auxiliaries of other churches, and other women's groups in the area were invited to attend. Displays were made of Indian artifacts, painting, flower arrangements, ceramics, genealogy, Christmas suggestions, babies' world, toys, arts and crafts, quilts and pillows, fascinating foods, and partytime. "Nuring the afternoon demonstrations were given on different types of parties, cake decorating, and homemade soap. A movie on figure flattery was shown before the fashion show of homemade clothing. Punch and cookies were served during the afternoon. Approximately one hundred women attended the function, and the reports from these women were most gratifying. The MidColumbia District is composed of branches at The Dalles, Oregon; Glendale, Klickitat, White Salmon, and Stevenson, Washington. It covers an area of about one hundred miles, and has 129 Relief Society members. The district officers are: President Laurel Scholes; Education Counselor Farris Jolley; Work Director Counselor Vonda Emmett; Secretary-Treasurer Velma Page; music director Lucille Harshburger." Southwest British Mission, First Singing Mothers Chorus Organized In Cornwall, July 1963 Front row, left to right: Thelma Lashmore; Maureen Paddy; Gladys Hailey; Evelyn Bunny. Second row, left to right: Vera Butler (missionary-director); Annie Miners; Nettie Roberts; Else Wall; Gyneith Thomas; Rahil Harris. Back row: left to right: Joy Bone; Elizabeth Harvey; Monica Webb; Emma Lou Webb (missionary); Anne Webb; Joyce Deste; Veoma Done (missionary and district board member). Elaine B. Curtis, President, Southwest British Mission Relief Society, reports: "Since the organization of this chorus, the sisters have been called upon to sing several times for various occasions within the mission. They sang for a Relief Society leadership meeting and genealogical convention held in Plymouth, England, traveling more than 150 miles by rail, bus, and car, and paying their own expenses." Indianapolis Stake (Indiana) Visiting Teacher Convention, October 12, 1963 Left to right, front row: Marguerite Onionés, Work Director Counselor; Joan Griesemer, Education Counselor; Beverly Ferguson, President. Sister Ferguson reports: "A wonderful time was had by the sisters who attended the visiting teacher convention, October 12, 1963, the theme of which was 'Love.' The convention was highlighted by words of wisdom and encouragement from the Relief Society advisor Elder Vern Hobson. "Relief Society pins were awarded to Marian Hobson, in appreciation for her fifty-six years of active service, and to Ethel Buttons, eighty-one years old, for being the oldest active visiting teacher in the stake. The centerpieces, made by the wards and branches, portraying love of service, home, Relief Society, education, neighbors, country, God, activity, music, virtue, beauty, and visiting teaching helped to make an already delicious luncheon even more delightful. We were made more aware of the importance of visiting teaching from the lighter side by the skit 'If the Shoe Fits, Wear It,' and songs entitled 'Excuses' and 'Go, Go, Go and Teach.' "The sweet spirit of love was present throughout the convention, which gave each sister a stronger determination to fulfill her responsibilities as a visiting teacher." 392 MAY 1964 Maricopa Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for Inter-Faith Social "'Meet My Neighbor,'"' October 25, 1963 At the right, front row, chorister Nathal Fuller; at the left in the back row, Alta Standage, organist; Goddess of Liberty, Verna Randall. Mildred B. Jarvis, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Members of the Maricopa Stake Relief Society had an opportunity to become better acquainted with both nonmember neighbors, and also those members of the Church who have not been active, at an Inter-Faith Social 'Meet My Neighbor,' held October 25, 1963. Members of each ward were invited to bring friends and neighbors to the stake program. Invitations, together with a brief explanation of the Relief Society program, were sent to service and cultural clubs, and to the wives of city and school officials. "The very stimulating and informative program presented the origin and purpose of Relief Society, with emphasis on service. The script was written by Nedra Lundberg. Music for the program was furnished by the Maricopa Stake Singing Mothers, who had joined with other stakes of Arizona to sing at the October General Conference in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. "One of the most impressive parts of the program was the display of handiwork made by the sisters of all the wards in the stake. This drew praise especially from the nonmembers who attended the presentation. An atmosphere of warmth and friendliness was set by the decor, with autumn colors and floral arrangements setting the theme. Stake board members and ward Relief Society presidents, who were serving as hostesses, wore name cards decorated with yellow chrysanthemums, tied with a single blue bow. Decorations on the refreshment tables in the cultural hall included dry arrangements in their natural coloring, with accents of gold. "The expressions of the guests and members, alike, reflected the spirit of neighborliness and sisterhood which prevailed throughout the social. Many hearts were touched and eyes opened to the rewarding experiences offered through the educational and work programs of Relief Society." New England Mission, Southern Maine Singing Mothers at '"'Keynote Meeting' September 7, 1963 Ann N. Madsen, President, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "He That Is Faithful Shall Be Made Strong' was the theme of the New England Mission Primary-Relief Society Conference. As each sister entered the Cambridge chapel she was given a name tag, a blue link printed with the words 'A Strong Link' to highlight the fact. That a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. "The Relief Society keynote meeting began at 12:30 p. M. After Sister Madsen had welcomed the sisters, a skit was presented by the mission officers called 'This Is New England. You Are There!' The props for this skit were royal blue curtains on either side of a regular door marked 'Your Sister Lives Here.' The voices in the skit came from 'all over New England,' but no one was seen to be speaking. The skit consisted of a 'before and after' series of events taken from real life here in New England, showing what Relief Society, in all its phases, can do to help the sisters, particularly those who sit behind closed doors and never see or hear from us. "Next the sisters moved into the cultural hall, where cake decorating, quilting, smocking, rug hooking, wreaths and trees made of white and dyed turkey feathers were being demonstrated and patterns were being ordered. During this time the sisters were encouraged to sit down and learn 'how' on the spot. Many beautiful displays, with clever bazaar ideas, were set up. All of the displays were linked together with large chain links in varied colors. "After the departments and class work, all reassembled in the chapel to hear and see an Inter-Faith Social demonstration featuring the Singing Mothers of the Southern Maine District. President Truman G. Madsen then gave inspired counsel, and the last forty-five minutes were spent in testimony bearing." 394 Western States Mission, Longmont (Colorado) Branch Presents Fashion Show September 26, 1963 At left: Mindi Dawn Fenton, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Darrell Fenton; right: Elnor Dagle, eighty-five, first president of Longmont Branch Relief Society. Hazel Davis, President, Western States Mission (Relief Society), reports an unusually interesting event in the Longmont Branch: "The fact that we can dress smartly and modestly without being extravagant was beautifully demonstrated with a show of ready-to-wear fashions, which included styles for children. Two of the outstanding models were little Mindi Dawn Fenton and Elnor Dagle, eighty-five. Sister Dagle presented the highlight of the show when she wore the ninety-year-old, handmade wedding gown pictured. "Preceding the style review, each of the class leaders presented a brief outline of the material to be covered in her department during the year. In this small branch, it is recognized that it is important to reach out to the inactive and nonmember sisters and acquaint them with Relief Society work. The attendance was extremely gratifying, and the success of the social has been reflected in the attendance and enthusiasm at weekly meetings. "Among those who appeared and presented the program were: Cleta Fenton, President, Longmont Branch Relief Society; Regina Turner, Second Counselor; LaVonne Ward, Secretary-Treasurer; Dorothy Backman, work meeting leader; and LaDonna Plowman, whose lovely home was the setting for the program." 396 Lie jp Doeauljil Ida G. Hepworth it Rained Last Night AST night 4 gentle rain came into my garden as quictly as an Easter bunny. 'Vhis morning 1 am an old prospector with a new discovery. 1 have found that my arden is completely covered with sun diamonds. 'The clean green of the grass, and the forget-me-not blue of the sky make a perfect setting for the beginning of a new day. The new leaves on the rosebushes have been washed to the color of a jalf-ripened Jum. 'The painted daisies and the columbines have already dropped their jewels an the shrubbery, ate trying to throw back their shoulders and, with the help of some pridal wreath fronds, will soon be ready to greet the morning — but the heavy hearted ig As 1 look at the beauty of the earth this morning, | am glad that | have taken the time out of a busy life to plant a pack-yard garden, just because - - - it rained last night. Ee Yes, | Think 1! Would a in conversation | find myself telling of the things we used to do when we were children, and J am just as often asked if I would like to go pack to those days. I sometimes think | would. | would like to see a doll as pretty 4 my pink and white hollyhock dolls with their green currant heads. I would like to smell anything as sweet as crushed mint that grew knee-high along the creck bank where | could snuggle low and could not be found by the hunter of the "hide and seek" game. 1 would like to 6° with my older prothers and sisters, each with a gunny sack and a lunch, to gather dried sticks from prush or trees over in the mill claim (it was "milk lane" to MY childish ears), the dried sticks to be used for kindling wood. 1 would like to gather sweet peas, lady-slippets, daffodils, and pluebells in the prush, and blue and yellow violets that grew On the mossy panks of a crystal stream that ran through the field nearby. { would like to feel the security that was mune as | ran breathless into an imaginary fort for protection from the enemies in the small clearing in the oak brush where we a 1 would like to repeat with the same awed feeling (as we Primary children knelt at the heavy wooden benches), 4 simple and understanding prayer given by Sister Dustin, | would like to taste an apple like the ones kicked up ™ eatly spring from the heavily leaf-bedded fence row of wild plums and apple trees —~ qa veritable forest for children. J would love some molasses candy made from the skimmings of my grandfather's molasses mill, a black currant roly-poly pudding, and a thin cake just tossed into the oven. Life goes on and is still peautiful, but these are a few of the memories that make me sometimes answer, "Yes, I Think Would." 397 Salt Lake City's newest handicraft shop! AND NOVELTY UO. 3002 So. State, Salt Lake City 15, Utah @ Materials for satin fruit, ribbon flowers, liquid plastics, marble grapes, hat making and all other handicrafts. Write for free instructions and free catalog. UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY CO. 3002 So. State, Salt Lake City 15, Utah WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 21 days — June 21 to July 11: World's Fair, Church historical places (does not include pageant). <> 27 days — July 13 to August 8: World's Fair, Church historical places. Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also, Quebec and Montreal, Canada. — a 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. —— 16 days — July 25 to August 9 World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. —_- All tours include: Show at Jones' Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and oa special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 398 Memory Grace Barker Wilson There is a memory Defying time and place: Tail mountain tops that lean Against the high, blue space Of sky, where thunderheads Build up each summer noon. There is a canyon green, And meadows over-strewn With bluebells and wild flags. A little ice-cold stream Flows noisily along The middle of my dream. Summer Song Linnie F. Robinson The apple trees are dappled silver This afternoon of waning spring; The cherries hang in shining rows And all the birds have come to sing. The dahlias push up mighty shoots Where gladiolas knife the loam; And mountain shadows beckon me To follow if | chance to roam. 1 marvel that | view this day, New as when light was first unrolled; This morning's red and fiery shafts Turn evening lowlands into gold. And ail around where | can see — Such beauty makes me sing a song; | hear it in the harp-like trees And in the grasses, lithe and long. We Pass But Once Catherine B. Bowles The evening shades had fallen And my long day's work was done. Was | a little better Than when my labors had begun? Had kindly words been spoken, Had a heart been filled with cheer, Had | lent a helping hand To my neighbors who live near — Helped them to seek for blessings Richly given from above? Then my life would be uplifted And | would share with them my love. For life holds such lovely things— My heart is grateful for the joy it brings. Shape of Time Thelma J. Lund Within these walls we kept Our treasure on shelves of time. Here in this room we slept, Waking to morning's climb. Though our shape of time be lost, Who will know or tell If the house, wind-whispering, mossed, Is ruin or citadel? Unsaid Words Zara Sabin There is no song that larks can sing, No perfume roses shed, That takes the place within our lives Of loving words, unsaid. JOIN OUR QUALITY TOURS TO THE HOLY LAND March and October BOOK OF MORMON LANDS April—June—Nov.—Jan.—Feb.—March CHURCH HISTORIC PLACES and HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July New York World's Fair — Daily Departures via Bus-Air-Train HAWAII June and September EUROPE June Contact MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City 328-3161 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah 600 to 1000 miles.... 54 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. —=— PESERET_[PEws PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 399 Up to 150 miles.....35 150 to 300 miles.....39 300 to 600 mites.....45 1000 to 1400 miles.64 1400 to 1800 miles.76 Over 1800 miles.....87 Ble * Pye | f> Ut Ly orypralilaliins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Bell Felt Young Burley, Idaho Mrs. Ella Georgina Keel nie Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Anna Edling Wahliquist Mesa, Arizona style Mrs. Agnes Mary Horsley Gubler Lund, Nevada Mrs. Rhoda Tanner Magrath, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Nancy Hammer Mathews Logan, Utah Van Nuys, California Ovid, Idaho Mrs. Marie Parker Russell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sorena J. Larsen Pe a Ogden, Utah Christie Lund Coles Her hands were smooth and delicate as light, Or daisies moving softly in the night; Or water lilies waxen in the sun. How many acts of love those hands have done. Her feet were never dressed for beauty's sake: She needed comfort shoes of special make. Her feet were sturdy feet, or seemed to be. How many miles those feet have gone for me. 400 One Hundred Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Wood Westover Salt Lake City, Utah Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Mattie F. Pettis Allen alii | sill i! Mrs. Emma Butler Maxfield Bakersfield, California Mrs. Lois Ann Stevens Tanner Brady Mrs. Sarah Jane Roach Bowers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Clark Judd Mrs. Elizabeth Barfuss Christensen Mrs. Catherine Carlson Johnson Mrs. Christina Wayment Mrs. Naomi Taylor Coon Magna, Utah | ' SAC MUSIC | SACRED MUSIC | =! | FORLADIES | AIR l 1 | 4 | THREE PART | CONDITION | CHORUSES | R FE | one room or your whole house! ELECTRICALLY! | COME YE BLESSED oF |. MY FATHER—Madsen 20 | the proven way! ] aFORTH IN THY NAME, I Whichever way you air condition electrically, i O LORD | GO-Schumann ces 20 [ you'll enjoy these and many other advantages: 4 ] | Sleep Better... Enjoy Filtered air, | PEACE OF MIND—Stickles 25 | ee or space heating in total electric omes. | |..- 8HEAVENS ARE i... IN THY FORM—Mad 20! | _ | UTAH POWER @ LIGHT Co. I..... LET ALL MY LIFE BE I | MUSIC—Spross -30 aLET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT I i FOR JOY—Stephens 20 | I eeLORD, GOD OF ouR | FATHERS—Armbruster 25 | WORLD'S FAIR — APRIL 7, LORD'S PRAYER—Gates 20 TO OCTOBER — 1964 a | Both Individual and I | I I World's Fair including the Hill Use this advertisement as your | Cumorah Pageant. Order blank | Music Sent on Approval ] MEXICO a JUNE, 1964 I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | | | | MW DAVNES MiciC acuulL. ~~ -------: | 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 i! 1! Please send the music indicated | shove, -_ — HAWAII — MONTHLY n Approva arge Money Enclosed \ TOURS! Assoc sestseeestenmesstesoeececee,! Address! { Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — am 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Mim ne — 15 E. Ist South | + Salt Lake City 11, Utah | | ] ceteeeGRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP TELLING—Haydn oe 25 WP... MY REDEEMER LIVES Gates _...20 - =... OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert ___ 20 | | Feel "Fresh as a Daisy"... Rest Better.., Now: New low rates for electricity for air If it's electric, it's better! Group Tours There will be several tours to the EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 And Teer [ 1. THE FALLACY "yall Teach me Children: I Deseret Book | COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah NEW BOOKS FOR SPRING by Alvin R. Dyer An interesting analysis and comparison of the doctrines of two churches... The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and the Reorganized Church. Elder Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, brings scholarship and extensive knowledge to this masterly study. $2.95 2. AND THEY SHALL TEACH THEIR CHILDREN by Reed H. Bradford Using his professional knowledge together with his testimony as a Latter-day Saint, Dr. Bradford has written a book that is both a guide and inspiration to parents. $3.50 CRRERERERR EERSTE ORES CRETE ORES Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah I would like to receive books numbered........../24 for which I enclose (cash, check, or money order) the full cost $..... 020 2 I have an account, please charge.................... Wame...... Oo... Oe eee one LCC == ei Vl | State... Eee eeeZip Code-.......2... 2% Residents of Utah include 3'2% sales tax. RSM May Let me congratulate on the beauty of the Magazine. The March number is a dream in color. I loved the article and pictures (on roses) by L. Paul and Dorothy Roberts. Claire Noall's cover is outstanding. The article on painting with glass was very interesting and very colorful. Thanks, also, for the nice spots. My poems have been given. I am thinking of having a series of full-page ones framed as keepsakes. Eva Willes Wangsgaard Ogden, Utah I have continued to enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much and always eagerly wait for the next issue to come. I especially was very thrilled to see the lovely cover of the February issue of the scenery of Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. This is my birthplace, and this is where I first heard the gospel from my cousin during one of my summer vacations years ago. Ethel T. Kurihara President Luzon District Relief Society Southern Far East Mission I especially appreciated Alice Bailey's poem "Curled in Seed" in the March issue of the Magazine. It was full of beauty, as was Tom Elliott's color transparency of the Matterhorn. Leona Fetzer Wintch Manti, Utah As I read the article 'Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" in the March issue of the Magazine, by Margaret Russell, I was reminded of the closeness of my mother and sisters and am grateful for the sisterhood we have. Since I do not live close around my mother and sisters or sisters-in-law, I have more and more appreciated the sisterhood in Relief Society, and no matter where we have lived, Relief Society has brought this sisterhood to me. Our beloved Magazine shares this sisterhood with the dear members in many lands. Ida Mae F. Dahi Boise, Idaho I hope we will have more of the speech articles by Myrtle E. Henderson (March 1964). They are what we all need. Pearl H. Saunders Ogden, Utah I surely enjoyed the speech articles in the March Relief Society Magazine. I hope such articles will be continued. Mrs. Verna Ross Salt Lake City, Utah The article on speech (by Myrtle E. Henderson) in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine is much appreciated, and I hope the subject will be continued in future issues. Mrs. Opal Saunders Vale, Oregon I have just finished reading "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" by Margaret Russell in the March issue of the Magazine. As the mother of a family of five "little sisters," whose father is also a Wyoming schoolteacher, it was like reading a forecast of the future. The whole Magazine each month is a gem. Kathleen Gregory La Grange, Wyoming I enjoy the Magazine very much. The lessons are wonderful. Living in the mission field, I think the Magazine means much more to us. Sylvia J. Harris Red Wing, Minnesota I love and enjoy the Magazine! The messages and stories are so inspiring. Bonnie S. Hansen Munich, Germany The Relief Society Magazine has meant many enjoyable hours of reading for my husband and myself. It has been helpful in many ways. The March issue is very beautiful, with its poems and pictures of flowers. Mrs. Frank Goodwin Wheeling, West Virginia The Relief Society Magazine VOLUME 51 JUNE 1964 NUMBER 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 406 Paul H. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy 408 You, Dear Friends Leone O. Jacobs 410 My English Textbook Martha Weyland Paulsen 422 Emily Dickinson—"Occupation—Keeps House" Laurel Ulrich 450 Annual Report for 1963 Hulda Parker Fiction 412 The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday Helen Nielson 425 Your Heart to Understanding—Chapter 5 Hazel M. Thomson Generali Features 402 From Near and Far 418 Editorial: The 134th Annual General Church Conference 420 In Memoriam—Gladys P. Young 421 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 460 Notes From the Field Hulda Parker 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out Hobbies: Gretchen Stratton Makes Prize-Winning Pillows; Anna Marie Richins—Expert in Handicraft, 430; Happiness in Flower Arranging, by Maude W. Howard, 431; "Parchment" Correspondence Cards, by Peggy Tangren, 436; Relief Society Silver Service, College Park Ward, Washington Stake, 489; Plan for Your Bazaar in the Summertime, 440; An Evening Skirt, by Olive W. Burt, 442; Favors in Watermelon Design, 443; Ribbon-Covered Fruits and Ornaments, by RaNae Gledhill, 444; Clothing for the Very Young, by Helen Lach, 446. Lesson Department - Preview for 1964-65 467 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 469 Visiting Teacher Messages—Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 471 Work Meeting—Molding a Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine 472 Literature—The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Bruce R. Clark 474 Social Science—Divine Law and Church Government Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 401 The Shadowfall Shirley M. Howard Always the Moment, by Lael W. Hill, 420; Tide Turn, by Marjorie Newton, 424; Airborne Heritage, by Viola Ashton Candland, 449; Night, by Ida Elaine James, 477; Bird Song, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 478; One Year Old, by Christie Lund Coles, 479; The Secret, by Eleanor W. Schow, 479; Enchanted, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 480. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address. At once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. L$.; f,: P, r, " VU ILL b LE, - 7 to Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1964 AT this season of the year when summer is rich and beautiful upon the northern lands, and winter rests upon the southern hemisphere, the women of the Church in many lands extend birthday greetings to Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay. It is with rejoicing and sincere gratitude that the world-wide sisterhood, separated by mountains and oceans, yet united in the spirit of the restored gospel, pay tribute to the lovely woman who represents for them a worthy ideal of Latter-day Saint womanhood, which, with continuing devotion, they may strive to emulate. Realizing the ever-increasing complexity of life upon the earth today, and knowing full well the many voices that call out to women for their time, their energy, and their attention, the women of the Church are especially grateful that an example of wisdom, strength, serenity, and high purpose has been given them in the life of a truly great woman who has demonstrated the most important and far-reaching accomplishments of womanhood. Sister McKay has often said that she owes much of her fundamental attitudes, as well as her habits of personal discipline and performance to the training and example which her mother placed before her. These attributes, a heritage from her childhood home, Sister McKay has described as courage, cheerfulness, patience, affection, kindness, understanding, and homemaking ability. Each of these qualities has been magnified by Sister McKay, and all have been given in generous measure to her family, her friends, and to the women of the Church. Courage has been consistently manifest in her life, particularly on those many and prolonged occasions when her husband has been traveling in far places, carrying abroad the gospel message. At such times the quiet courage of Sister McKay was so deeply felt by the children in the home that they have said, in later years, that it seemed, through the courage and faith and prayers of their mother, that the influence and love and protection of their father was actually present in the home. Many of the responsibilities that come to women as mothers and homemakers, and in their relationships with other women, are greatly enhanced by the buoyant quality of cheerfulness that minimizes present difficulties and sheds a glowing light upon the morning that is sure to come. Such has been the pervading light and radiance in the presence of Sister McKay. Her patience has long been admired and appreciated by her family and by all her associates — a patience that has been upheld by enduring faith and the belief that when one has chosen well a lifetime pattern, then patience and endurance are part of that pathway. Truly it may be said that the desire and ability to give love and affection are rare gifts, and most worthy of cultivation. Affection and love for those near and dear to Sister McKay and for the women of the Church and all others, have characterized the days and the years of the life of Sister McKay, exemplifying her own belief that ''life's finest blessing is the ability to find joy in doing something for someone else.'' Her innate kindness seems to spring from a desire to help women to attain some of the rich blessings which have graced her own life. The making and keeping of a home have been to Sister McKay a sacred trust, and the rearing of 'children a privilege and a blessing. With President McKay she has traveled to many parts of the world, always taking with her ''a message of peace and a prayer for the women of the world to make the best possible homes for their children.", For her eighty-seventh birthday, the women of the Church extend to Sister McKay their love and appreciation and their wishes for her health and happiness. 404 Pau Harold Dunn, a California educator, was appointed to the First Council of Seventy at the Monday morning session of the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1964, the closing day of Conference. His call fills the vacancy in the Council of Seventy occasioned by the death of Elder Levi Edgar Young, in December 1963. Elder Dunn was born in Provo, Utah, April 24, 1924, the second of three sons of Joshua Harold and Geneve Roberts Dunn. The family moved to California in 1939, where Elder Dunn continued his education. He received a B. A. Degree in religion from Chapman College in 1953, and the next year he was awarded a Master's Degree in education from the University of Southern California. He received his doctorate in educational administration from the same institution in 1959. At the time of his appointment to the Council, he was an active seventy in the Downey Third Ward of Huntington Park Stake. 406 Paul H. Dunn Appointed to the First Council of Seventy He became associated with the Church Education System in 1952, as a seminary teacher in the Los Angeles area, and as viceprincipal of the seminaries in that city in 1953-54. Later, he became assistant supervisor of the seminaries of Southern California and served with great success in that capacity until 1956, when he was appointed director of the University of Southern California Institute of Religion. When called to be a General Authority, Elder Dunn was coordinator of the Institutes of Religion of Southern California. In this work, he has directed the activities of nine fulltime and forty-one part-time institutes, with an estimated enrollment of 2,500 students. His area of supervision included the institutes from Fresno, south to the Mexican border. Through his training and experience as a counselor and friend of the youth of the Church, and by his enthusiasm, friendliness, spiritual qualities, and great energy and ability, Elder Dunn has inspired and directed thousands of young people into the ways of usefulness and high endeavor in Church and community activities. He has been untiring in his efforts to encourage young people to remain active in the Church organizations and to increase [as ELDER PAUL H. DUNN AND HIS FAMILY Elder Paul H. Dunn and his wife Jeanne Cheverton Dunn, with their daughters: Kellie (front, left); Janet (standing at the left), and Marsha (at the right). Their understanding of the gospel so that their attitudes and understanding of the gospel will enable them to be effective missionaries and exemplars of the teachings and principles of Latter-day Saint ideals.. His participation in athletics, (baseball, golf, football, basketball and track), and sports during his high school and college years has enabled him to influence many young men into taking part in such programs sponsored by the Church. Elder Dunn's maternal grandfather W. D. Roberts, and the vrandfather's brother E. L. Roberts, who for many years was head coach and athletic director at the Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, were well known athletes and provided Elder Dunn with his heritage of interest. Elder Dunn's father passed away in December 1960. His mother and brothers and _ their families are living in California. Elder Dunn married Jeanne Alice -'Cheverton, whom he converted to the Church. They were sealed in the Arizona Temple, and are the parents of three daughters: Janet Carolyn, sixteen; Marsha Jeanne, fourteen, and Kellie Colleen, four. 407 prone in this mortal existence? And, likewise, Immediately, a warm feeling came over me, the day seemed brighter, and my Spirits rose perj t necessarily because Leone O. Jacobs ard of Relief Society and joyous experience. There are friends and the new casual friends, friends, the Dear Mary seems always to be happy and full of wit. How I need her! To be in her presence is to have one's morale lifted skyward. Optimist, she Carries burdens aplenty, though they are kept hidden from view. There is orma, who is Particularly warm a combination. Many are the times she has saved me from wasting precious time and effort on foolish endeavors. Dear Harriet! I am so grateful she is just the way she is. So big-hearted, so free from prejudice and criticism of others. I feel completely relaxed in her company. And so, each one holds a special place in my heart! For old friends I have great affection. I do not refer to old in point of years, but in the length of our association. These are my childhood friends, the friends with whom I attended school, whose lives are known to me and mine to them. They know my family background, my teachers, my weaknesses and strengths, our Church and community activities. I shall never lose interest in these whose lives have been so intimately interwoven with mine. It matters not how divergent our paths have been in the intervening years. "We grew up together,'' I announce proudly when introducing them to others. ''We came from the same town." How wonderful that as we grow older the events we shared in bygone days remain clear! Precious, vivid memories! THEN there are the new friends one makes from time to time. What a delight, what an unexpected pleasure is each one — an added gem in one's collection of blessings! To some we are immediately and mysteriously attracted, as if by a magnet. With such there need be no period of "setting acquainted." We are right away good friends. A choice experience it is to meet someone whose nature, we sense instinctively, will harmonize with our own! And what a happy prospect YOU, DEAR FRIENDS it is to realize that just any day we may meet some sweet person who will be a joy to us forever. For there is no quota on friendships. We may go on and on gathering them into our familiar circle. The casual friends also bring happiness into our lives. How pleasant to meet acquaintances on the street or at a social function, to receive a warm smile, a handshake, and a "'How do you do? So nice to see you."' One feels identified with his fellow beings and at one with the world. Then there are the friends one makes while serving in the Church. These are no doubt some of the choicest associations of all. How could individuals become closer than by being partners in the work of the Lord? There is so much in common; one's goals and standards are the same. One's best is expected and one's best is willingly given. The spirit of love is dominant, and a_ bond of fellowship develops that may last throughout eternity. And, lastly, there are the special few who are one's tried and true confidants, to whom one's innermost thoughts are confided, and in whom one puts his complete trust and love. These are as we imagine the Biblical friendship between David and Jonathan. Every person needs one or more such close friends. To be able to talk over one's problems with such a friend is of inestimable value, a stabilizing and sustaining influence. And so, truly grateful I am for friends — the new, the old, the tried, the true, and the ones who are to be. God bless them every one! 409 One evening ag J sat resting after g busy day, contemplating the beautify] Surroundings of the valley, in the Stillnesg I heard the Shriek of 4 Siren. Soon the fire engine came rushing up the Street. The thought came to Ww.: Would I Save, if Ome was on fire? If the children r me, I would try to Save the self And if there we Ore time? Ould I tr ve furs, Jewels (if I ha any)? Ould Y to save treasured fami] Pictures Some old letters from m Mother and father I wou Save a f, Prized bo € Relief Societ agazine (Prime ample) is yo] Pecial] It j a, WwW. Wa Nineteen years of ge the PPortunity came to to join two Sisters and Tother in Sa ake City, U Weden [ Considered 4 good POSition with the Telephon y. | Nowing the anguage nd could not hope for th Same as employ 4 lovely fami] learneg t Merican Way o life, for Which always been 8&ratef Was paid $3 eek. O this J © care of Ly Own needs and also Start Saving to bring 4 younger Sister here from Sweden. Could not afford books to Satisfy the desire for Teading that my Parents Nl me. 'he t Sunda in Salt La City, some friends ca © visit One of hem Tought with him a ck of funny Papers Preading Some of hem o the Cor, he saiq-. « me here, Martha, this jg d way to Start learnin new language < Later t e€venin Y Sister Said: « e have Come here for ¢ Sake 80spel, you will never | 'arn abo the Sospel or the F Zlish lang ag throug funny Papers, Wh lear about the 80Spel at th € you are learning a ne language?" Y sister brought out a few Relief Societ 8Azines. 8ether, we looked through hem Sh told me bout he le departme I knew this w. T MY mother would t me to fol] Relief Societ Magazin became m nglish textbo Many a lonely night J Sat With a Swedish-English dictionary and my Relief Societ Magaz €, Teme berin hat my Father ed to 5 ae man worth IS salt wil] ave hard hips ¢ meet and temptations to battle» No INS worth hile js Ccomplisheq Without h d work Was har Work, j Was d uraging Work, an h €art had to be in j if I wa d to Succeed. Time Progresgg, d, little by litt] > I und Tstood More of th Wonderfy] truths Y Seemed fit into y life The w wante. Y life ¢ € than anything | Wanted timon of the truthfulness the 80spel ver doubted Parents' te ching: I wanted hardships? It was not Wealth, it Was not knowledge, Particularly, except the knowledge of God. Came to realize, it Was the testimony. The testimony in their hearts of the truth of the Sospel and the divinity of the Mission of 410 Tue, Ih n derness to fight, no mob Violence to eet ut there Were other battles ¢ > @ new langua > to meet the ch lenge of life away fr, d Parenta] 8uldance in Strange land ound Myself look ng forward the evenings when | Could sit and read The elief Oclet Magaz; e ey beca € my Tiends, My coy lors, ya visors hey Were helpers Upon whose aid wisdom | Could rely €re good company and kept me from fee] NE So alone Th Magazine met so ma Y of m need d wanted to Marry, have a family, be a 800d homemake; eSides learnin about e Pel thro gh th Maga H, were tested Tecipes Sewin S8estions, budget Plannin 800d. "Dig you bring this Tecipe from Sweden?" I had never heard of corn. Bread before. I was SO thrilled When she asked me for a Copy. J Writing Many times When in doubt what to have for dinner, she Would ask- "Seen any good Tecipes in the Magazine lately?» attending the Sacrament meetings, When [ first came to Salt Lake City, it Seemed everyone talked S@) fast J} had a hard time to follow the Speaker Not so with my Magazine Here | Could sit down and take time learning I:; every Word til] W its Meaning. Ometimes learning a new language can have its hy S Sides, [ Temem ber the time J ad trie €cipe from t agazine, « hicken a] King fq ne day a I was Walk Vv Sister's, I alked p Ouse with 4 sign Mm the Window, hich Said: "Ch Cken Pox " Icken 4 | 8, Chicken Pox, Where was the differeng, 4 Nyway, it must be 800d and homem; having 4 Sign in the win Ow. It Would be Uch fy O Prise my Sister with some Ing good ter the SWeet | h explained to me what chj k OX Was The Relief Society Magazine has introduce Me to go man friends, Many of them £0ne long 480. Their influence has been felt in my life. Never read the Magazine Without feeling the love and sweet Influence of the Sisters Who edit the agazine. They have 8iven me a Wwell-balanceg under. Standing of the important things in life e and build our happiness May we 8lorify his name by living lives Worthy of his blessings, I Pray that ] May always walk in humility and Obedience before im, This J do humbly and in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 411 She had Planned this the Crochet hook had shoes, Which Were a little too Small. But rather than Send them back, Causing a delay of Many Weeks, Mama Wore them, even though they Pinched her feet, apa looked handsome in his brown Suit and derby hat, Perched cockily on the side to show S reddish }] d hair nugget aken from the « lly Boy" ne adorned 1€ pin, and long gold Chain qd gled his vest Pocket, wh; Neealed th big gold They Would do for this summer Mama had Said, then James who Was the older of the two, could have a New pair, and Peter could finish the old Ones, Peter's, if they were not worn out, Would be 8lven to b Y new white embroidered dresg Was Pretty, with buffy Sleeves 412 THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY and a pink ribbon sash. I wore matching bows of ribbon on each of my two long braids. The three of us wore heavy ribbed long black cotton stockings, and black laced shoes. Papa, a bit restless in church, kept pulling at his collar and crossing and uncrossing his legs, much to the annoyance of Mama. When closing prayer was said, he wasted no time ushering us out to our waiting Lizzie. Mama barely had time for a few handshakes and words of greeting. Lizzie needed no coaxing today, just one twist on the crank handle and she purred like a kitten. Papa slid over the side and under the steering wheel. He adjusted the spark, took off the brake, pulled down the gas, and we were off at a moderate rate of speed, about fifteen miles per hour, waving goodbye to our friends. It always pleased Papa as he left our friends behind in their carriages and horses, staring after us. Down Main Street we went without making the usual turn for home. "Where are we going?" inquired Mama, as we passed by our street. "Oh, I thought you might like a little ride," said Papa. "We should have gone home first and changed our clothes," remarked Mama, not wanting to get dusty, and worrying about the breeze ruining her plumes. "We won't be long," said Papa, slowing down a little. It was such a lovely drive down past the depot, across the river bridge, and along the side of the hill. A short distance to the left, the dangerous river wound its way through pasture lands, and chattering magpies flew in and out the willows and bullberry bushes. On and on we went, thoroughly enjoying the scenery. Papa was always happy when escorting Lizzie around, Now and then a little breeze swayed the feathers on Mama's hat, and the sun played hide-and-go-seek through the lacy brim. I loved to watch the shadows dance about on her lovely face. The road was becoming more rough, and she held a little tighter to her hat to keep it from bobbing up and down. "Those look like sheep tracks along the hill, don't they?" inquired Mama. "They sure do," replied Papa, "and not more than a day or two old." "T think we had better turn back, Ed. It's getting quite dusty," said Mama apprehensively. But Papa was busy scanning the hillside. Then, quite unexpectedly, Peter cried, "Look out, Papa, some sheeps!"' Papa slammed on his brake just in time to avoid hitting an old ewe and two baby lambs coming onto the road. The sudden force threw Mama against the windshield, brushing her forehead and bending her hat. Her hat pins pulled loose and with them came strands of long black hair. Papa's derby flew off his head and rolled 413 off dirt and try. 2 Was on the Point of ¢ S. At my new hat!". T than the bruise on her forehead. '7 first,": » Cranked y Lizzie, threw his and Started do the Toad, trying to keep out 4§0n-whee ruts, "M Only one thing now, and that was t of the hill, there Was a nice Wide sp - Papa maneuvered Lizzj little lamb yj ot in Which to turn e skilfully, but almost backed Into a Ying under 4 Sagebrush, Stopped, and we al] climbed Out, except Mama, to look at the little Creature, Which ma € no effort ° move, but Just looked Sadly UP at us. "Oh, ittle lambie, Where jg your mama? Asked Peter "Where is its mama?" asked of Papa. Said Papa, then a ded, "It's lya Couple of days old" "What will become It, Papa, Without a Mama? "Well, I Suess it']] ¢ arve to ath he answered, n t re yoy 80ing to le Coyotes t | 6 I begged, feeling Sorry for the; €, Papa." 1 our best Clothes!" Claimed M. Apa Wisely answered by sa Ing, "Ask Your mother " OW Ma Was -°MPassionate, too, but n her Pinion there Was a place for eve thing, an Our nice lean Lj Zle was definite] Sympathy for the little | mb, s Eave her consent "Where will you keep ito» € asked MmMediat ly we 4ssured hey we would build jt 4 little pen. "Don't feel ba f it doesn't lve," autioned Papa. "It's Pretty Weak, an we might have trouble fe Ing it," 414 "T guess she's wit the herd. Rely you don't nO place for hey Must hay, been €parated " tend to Put that animal] in the Car, With ys smelly Sheep, Bu with three children feelin SO much "Addie!" called Papa, "bpin Seat, this Shee Put on €n though the Its side With Papa astride jt h hang Onto those Kicking le 25, With this act of m | d ercy 4ccomplished, Pa IZZie, J lifte pa SUS gested Ww up my blood-stained betti €e€s, and followed behind. Addie, Wha We are 80ing to have!" ga: Mama." A Y helpless animal. [¢ had Tr, it wou] Make good mutton. Why We could enjoy eating it? 415 JUNE 1964 The task of tying the back legs together, and carrying it to the Model T was laborious, but he managed. "Open the car door, James, and we'll put it beside the other one," he said. The little hungry lamb instinctively tried to find some much-needed nourishment from the new companion, but it wasn't the right kind of sheep. "Don't cry little sheeps," said Peter sympathetically, patting it on the head. "Sheep," corrected Mama. "I don't want to hear you say 'sheeps' again, Peter!" WE started for home. Papa and Mama were very quiet. James and Peter lay on their stomachs on the seat watching the sheep, and trying to calm them. At the top of the hill we noticed the old ewe and her twin lambs, feeding contentedly by the side of the road. Papa slowed down wondering what to do, and a little fearful of Mama's wrath. He thought of all the good winter meat we could have just for the taking, and decided to stop. "You couldn't possibly be thinking of taking more sheep?" Mama asked. "Bess, listen to reason, will you? Those sheep will give us all the mutton we need this winter," Papa tried to explain. "What would you suggest we do, get out and walk while you load up with sheep?" she retorted. Papa was trying to figure out how he could load all those sheep. He had no intention of leaving them behind. The one with the broken leg would cause less trouble up front beside Mama, he decided. The old ewe and the little ones would settle down beside her. The real trouble began when Papa started to put the crippled sheep in the front. "Lift up your skirts, Bess, and I'll set this cripple one in front," he said. "You'll do no such thing, I'll walk first!" threatened Mama, and out of the Ford she got, tight shoes and all. Papa looked down at her feet and decided to take a chance. He took off his stiff collar and derby hat, and laid them on the front seat, and started for the sheep. "Put a couple of rocks behind the back wheels, James, so she won't roll down hill. Addie, you take off your stockings, they're torn anyway, and you and Peter stand over there by the hill and don't let the sheep go past you." Holding my skirts away from my stinging knees, I did as he bade. We were never permitted to talk back to Papa. It was hard work trying to corner a sheep with two lambs, but we did. Papa grabbed the old ewe's two back legs so she couldn't kick, and tied them together with my black stockings. It took some doing to get those frightened sheep in Lizzie, and by the time we were through, our shoes were skinned, and our clothes torn and soiled. The little orphan lamb again searched for nourishment from the old mother, but the two stronger ones pushed it away. This 416 crippled Sheep, Papa Pulled down On the gas lever and Lizzie shot full Speed ahead. The Sudden jar upset the already Startled sheep, and Papa found j Over the rough Wagon road With a Car full of frightened, bleating Taying locks back under her } t. Th Was never 48aIn quite Straight, an t was long time before Papa wo her complete Orgiveness "You had better 80° on in the house With Mama and take Care of those knees," Said Papa, as he helped me over the Side of the cay. Kneeling down beside it, stroking the Soft, fleecy Wool, OWn its throat. Peter Spent hours Coaxing his New pet to drink, and often Slept Curled Up beside it on the rug. Ec beautiful, ] Vely pet and follo ed Pet at ever pportunit romp nd Played until completely exhausted €N would drop d 1 On the Tass to rest Sometimes have g Short nap 417 VOLUME 51 JUNE 1964 NUMBER IN the beautiful springtime of the year, in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1964, the 134th Annual General Conference of the Church was held and commemorated the organization of the Church on the 6th of April 1830. The rapid growth of the Church was revealed by the announcement of a membership of 2,117,451 as of December 31, 1963, with the number of full-time missionaries listed as 11,653. The unity and strength, as well as the continuity of inspired leadership, were demonstrated by President McKay, in his ninety-first year, who presided at all the conference sessions and conducted part of them and in the appointment of Paul Harold Dunn, thirty-nine, to be the new member of the First Council of Seventy. In his opening address, President McKay appealed to the saints throughout the world to live the principles of the gospel and thereby strengthen themselves and their homes: This morning | have in mind giving a warning to all young people relating to three dangers threatening the success and happiness of youth: First — the pernicious habit of smoking cigarettes; second — the increasing number of divorces; third — the tendency to hold less sacred the moral standards.... One of the most precious possessions is our families. The domestic relations precede, and, in our present existence, are worth more than all other social ties. They give the first throb of the heart and unseal the deep foundations of its love. Home is the chief school of human virtues. Its responsibilities, joys, sorrows, smiles, tears, hopes, solicitudes form the chief interests of human life. President Hugh B. Brown delivered an address in which he affirmed the meaning of the gospel of Jesus Christ in a world in which so many are frustrated in their search for truth. 418 Annual General Conference Unlike those whose religious faith is uneasy and precarious in the modern world of expanding scientific knowledge, we are at home with the most advanced truths discovered by scientists and with all competent philosophic thought — with truth wherever found — because our religion enjoins in us a love of knowledge and education; encourages us to seek understanding through broadening our vision and deepening our insight. This is an eternal quest. In a description of God's dealings with men through his prophets, President Nathan Eldon Tanner declared: While the prophets in the old land were receiving revelations from God, the people of Lehi on this, the American Continent, were not left without guidance. Prophets were raised up through whom God spoke and directed his people in all their doings as they would listen. He revealed to them, also, 600 years before Christ's coming, that he would come, that he was the Savior of the world, that he would be persecuted and crucified, and that he would be resurrected. One of the most blessed and heartfelt events of the conference was the farewell message of President McKay, delivered with love and solicitude: It is a great thing to be a father of boys and girls. | think it is a precious thing for our boys and girls to realize their responsibility to carry their father's name in love and honor.... We have had a wonderful conference.... Let us take with us appreciation of being a father, appreciation of being a mother. And boys and girls, go with the responsibility that you have to bring comfort and gladness and thankfulness to the hearts of your fathers and mothers. 419 In Memoriam— Gladys Pratt Young March 24, 1895 - April 3, 1964 Giapys Pratt Young, wife of S. Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 3, 1964. Of illustrious pioneer heritage, through the line of Parley P. Pratt, she was born in Colonia Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico, the youngest daughter of Helaman and Victoria Billingsley Pratt. Both her father and her brother, Rey Lucero Pratt, served as presidents of the Mexican Mission, and the members of the Pratt family are greatly loved and respected throughout the Church. Gladys spent her early years in the Mexican Colonies and lived with her brother Rey L. Pratt in Mexico City after the death of her parents. She was married to S. Dilworth Young, May 31, 1923, in the Salt Lake Temple. A talented woman, skilled in the creative arts, Sister Young wrote and directed many dramas and pageants for the Church and for the communities in which she lived, generously sharing her gifts, her time, and her energy. Skilled in many household handicrafts, she excelled in such accomplishments as designing costumes, painting trays, rug making, and quilting, and she taught these skills to many women in the missions and at home. She served as president of the New England Mission Relief Society from 1947 to 1951 during the time that her husband presided over that mission. The General Board of Relief Society, and the membership throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to Elder Young and to the other family members. May the beautiful life and the lovely ways of Gladys Pratt Young be a blessed memory to them. Always the Moment Lael W. Hill Shall we look back and say to each other, Remember, remember— That was the first day we looked on each other's faces The instant of just before hearing each other's laughter The merest beginning of almost-touching our fingers? Shail we look back together sometime, in a frantic recalling Trying to capture the color of eyes that were lighted, Listening long for the music that once was our voices, Reaching the hands of remembering—vainly, vainly? If we knew—if our longing could wake an awareness, a knowledge, The moment of then lies parallel with our tomorrow! Look forward to loving: our love will be always beginning— Nothing is lost that we live so intensely, so purely. 420 Ramona W. Cannon Among the women appointees to Government positions by President Lyndon B. Johnson are the following: Mrs. Norman Chandler, sixty-two, as 4 member of the Advisory Committee to the United States Information Agency; Mrs. Virginia Mae Brown, forty, to the Interstate Commerce Commission; Mrs.! Ndia Edwards, almost seventy, to be special consultant on youth employment to the Secretary of Labor; Mrs. Katherine E. White, fifty-seven, to be ambassador to Denmark; Mrs. Herbert Stats, fifty-three, as a consultant in the Office of Aging, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and coordinator of Senior Citizens Month (May); Mrs. Mary Keyserling as director of the Women's Bureau, Labor Department. THE BEGUM (Princess) C. AHMED of Pakistan served as a delegate at the installation of President Leon! Of Venezuela. The Begum was the first woman from Pakistan to be a delegate to the United Nations. Her countrywomen now vote, and Pakistan has sixteen women in Parliament, and a woman ambassador to Italy. It has been estimated by the Associated Press of the United States that from a total of 49,034 reporters and editors of major newspapers, 17,274 are women who are finding rewarding careers in various fields of journalism. QUEEN ELIZABETH of thirty-seven, gave birth to her fourth child (third son and third in line of succession) On March 10, 1964. A fortyone gun salute heralded the news across London. MARGARET BARTLETT ANDERSON is author of Robert Frost and John Bartlett, the Record of a Friendship (Holt, Reinhart and_ Winston, i which reveals many aspects of the life and the poetry of this "genius with all that genius implies - - - insight, energy, sensitivity." RUTH ABAT is public relations director and advertising manager for Raymond International, 4 heavy construction company, with headquarters in New York City and construction contracts in many countries. Miss Abat has been a staff writer for several large newspapers and was formerly editor of the Dun and Bradstreet house publication, New York City. EILEEN FARRELL has been described by many eminent music critics aS the finest dramatic soprano in the United States. I is full-bodied and rich, the diction faultless, and her rhythm and phrasing unequaled." She has sung in many of the world's greatest concert halls and has appeared with the most acclaimed symphony orchestras and in leading roles in operas and oratorios. 42) EMILY DICKINSON "Occupation—Keeps House"' Laurel Ulrich The quotations reprinted in this article are from the book "The Letters of Emily Dickinson,' edited by Thomas H. Johnson, and are used by special permission from Harvard University Press. Mian Street in Amherst, Massachusetts, leads gently past the quiet common and a short row of shops, starts its ascent near the towered red brick police station, grows steeper as it moves into a residential section, then thrusts breathlessly upward until, just surmounting a view of the hills beyond, it passes the thick maze of hemlock which screens the mansion where Emily Dickinson lived and died. Emily's home is not open to the public. The white sign on the side of the house which claims it as her home can barely be glimpsed through the branches of the hedge, which reaches well past 422 the sill of the second story windows. Retreating back down the hill, one can peer through the driveway opening and see something of the house—solid, conservative red brick cupola crowded. To the left of the driveway is the clay-colored picket fence of "The Evergreens," the house Edward Dickinson built for Emily's brother Austin and his bride. Towering over the pickets is another hemlock hedge and, piercing it, a row of pinions standing like flagstaffs before an embassy. The house itself is a clay-colored frame version of Edward's own. It would be hard to imagine either of these houses open to tourists. There is a mystery in their aloofness which invites speculation on the lives within. It is easy to imagine a slender woman in white darting into a doorway to avoid being seen, to picture a "New England Nun" tending her flowers and her broken heart behind the tall hedge. Like the citizens of Amherst in Emily's day, seeing the hedge, hearing the half-whispered rumors, we began to believe the legend of 'Miss Emily." If we were to step through the hedge, wouldn't we see her there now, sitting in her garden dreamily writing in a small notebook, her face as pale as her dress, thinking of the legendary lover she had been forced to renounce in her youth? Unfortunately for the legend, if we had been able to penetrate the hedge in Emily's day, we would probably have seen her, with her auburn hair neatly parted in the middle, dressed in apron (a white one?), kneading bread for the family, or-doing any one of a dozen homely tasks. A household of 100 years ago required immense labor to operate. It took the efforts of Mrs. Dickinson, Lavina, an Irish maid, and Emily to keep the large Dickinson house going. There were vegetables to gather and preserve, apples to pick and make into sauce and cider. There were starched shirt: fronts to iron with heavy irons heated and reheated on the woodburning stove. There were scrubbing and sweeping and dusting and polishing—all without the benefit of vacuum cleaners—and all the while carrying the weight of a many-petticoated, full-length dress. Emily hated housework, saying she "preferred pestilence."' EMILY DICKINSON But she carried her share of the duties. Her province seems to have been cooking. Writinc to her friend Abiah Root, the fifteen-year-old Emily says: "I am going to learn to make bread tomorrow. So you may imagine me with my sleeves rolled up, mixing flour, milk, saleratus, etc. With a deal of grace. I advise you if you don't know how to make the staff of life to learn with dispatch." Eleyen years later she was an expert baker. At the Amherst Cattle Show in 1856 her loaf of "rye and Indian" bread won second prize— seventy-five cents. To his death Edward Dickinson was said to have refused any bread not of Emily's baking. In a letter to Mrs. Holland, in 1871, Emily says she is ''pleased the Gingerbread triumphed." The recipe was Emily's: "1 Quart Flour, 4% Cup Butter, 4% Cup Cream, 1 Table Spoon Ginger, 1 Tea Spoon Soda, I Salt. Make up with Molasses—." It was natural that being cook she also made the fires. Writing to Austin at six A. M. She said: "T add a word to say that I've got the fires made and waked the individuals, and the Americans are conquering the British in the teakettle.... Will now proceed to get breakfast, consisting of hash and brown bread—Dessert—A. Sauce." When Forester Ainsworth took the Tenth National Census in Hampshire County, Massachusetts, in 1880, he listed Emily E. Dickinson, Occupation: "Keeps House." To all the world this was Emily Dickinson's full-time occu- 423 JUNE 1964 pation. Those around her knew she was in the habit of writing small verses and strangely literary letters to her friends, but they had no idea that at night, while the rest of the family slept, Emily Dickinson was an intense artist who wrote volumes of poems, many of them among the greatest in American letters. Modern housewives who find themselves exhausted after a day with automatic washer and electric frypan can perhaps understand one reason for Emily's retirement from village life—the need for time and energy to pursue her clandestine life's work. Part of the greatness of Emily Dickinson's poetry is in the startling precision of her metaphors. Is it surprising that many of these come from housework? When she becomes disillusioned with an idea, it falls and breaks "At bottom of my Mind," like a plate falling off a shelf. She talks of brushing away a summer like a fly, or of winding "the months in balls." "sweeping up the heart" becomes part of the bustle in the house after a death. Using themes another poet might treat with "high seriousness," Emily almost playfully confronts us with homely fact, with trimming a lampwick, sifting flour, making a bed. She catches us off guard, teases us with her slant way of seeing things, and, in the end, profoundly moves us. E. Dickinson, Occupation: Poet, triumphs; but not without retaining part of Miss Emily, Occupation: Keeps House. For a fascinating treatment of the home life of Emily Dickinson, especially in the earlier years, see Millicent Todd Bingham, Emily Dickinson's Home, 424 New York: Harper & Row, Inc., 1955. Tide Turn Marjorie Newton Punchbowl, New South Wales, Australia | have come back to the sea, seeking strength. Here | will answer myself, here decide. The beach is deserted, lonely its length, And | am at one with sun, surf, and tide. My cliff top is shared with the sound-swift terns, The salt wet wind blowing steady and free, And all that is sane within me yearns For the pattern of life as it used to be. The breakers are never still; ebb and surge Are marked by the curves of froth on the shore, And change is constant: the patterns emerge Only to mingle their colors once more. | will face the wind and the turning tide, For the sea will return to the land, And ever the meaning of life will abide, Clear patterned on smooth and shining sand. Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance died at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decided to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also leave with the company for California, but when a division of the company is made, Lon and Selena are separated. Alfred Quale, also on his way to California, begins his courtship of the lovely Selena. 'THere were days at a time now when the cemetery at Winter Quarters and the happenings there seemed very far away to Selena. She was enjoying the companionship of her new friend, Alfred Quale. He was so goodnatured and cheerful that her despondency seemed to lessen with the passing of each day. Aut CHAPTER 5 "_. Hazel M. Thomson Too, some of Belle's enthusiasm may have rubbed off on Selena. Belle had never been happier. When they arrived at Resting Springs they did just that; they drank from the spring, filled every available water container, and rested. The feed was plentiful, and the leaders decided to give the animals a few days' rest. "It's an oasis," Josiah said, looking at the luxuriant growth of grass. "Plenty of feed and plenty of water. Still, it makes me a little uneasy." "For goodness sakes, Josiah, why? Can't you just take advantage of the chance to rest a few days without dreaming up something to worry about?" "l'm not dreaming, Belle," he answered. "The leaders aren't dreaming either. They feel it necessary that we wait up here, until the other company arrives. We have been traveling so slowly that Brother Rich and his group can't be more than a few days back." 425 JUNE 1964 Selena, knitting nearby, was surprised to find her heart skipping a beat. Lon! He would be in camp soon! She bent lower over her work, unwilling to betray any sign of emotion about Lon. She realized the lack of encouragement she had given him. The amazing thing was that he had remained so constant in coming to see her at every opportunity, in view of her own actions. But Selena did not yet know her own mind, so she said nothing. It was late the next day that the Rich Company caught up with the lead camp. Just as Belle had hoped and Selena expected, Lon arrived at their wagon in time to eat the evening meal with them. "Lon!" cried Josiah, slapping his tall friend on the back, as the two friends shook hands. "I was afraid we'd seen the last of you until California." "It's mighty good to be here," replied Lon, glancing at Selena. "T'm glad you came to a place with enough feed to stop and let the animals eat and rest for a few days or we never could have caught you. You've made good time." "And you've made better than we did," said Josiah smiling, "thanks to Belle." "Now, Josiah," interrupted Belle, "'there's no need to be saying that." "Why? What do you mean, Josiah?" Lon asked. "Oh, all those rocks Belle has moved out of the road. Don't tell me you didn't see them as you went by." "That's all right, Belle,'' Lon said, moving over and shaking hands with her. "Josiah knows 426 well enough that he has the best wife on the wagon train. Hope I can be as lucky when I get me a wife." As he finished speaking, he turned and looked directly at Selena, taking her hand in his. She thrilled at his touch-— and immediately resented it, that anyone could have this effect upon her, when the man she had loved lay in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. She resented even the thought of anyone taking his place. With Alfred it was different. She enjoyed his company, his constant jesting. It gave a lift to her downcast spirits. That was all. "Selena....' She dropped her eyes before the message she read in Lon's. '"Selena, it's so good to see you again. I was sorry to miss seeing you that last night, but some of us were sent into the settlement on a last minute assignment. We had to go." Of course! Thought Selena. She might have expected Lon had some reason of that sort. His personal affairs would always come second to whatever he considered to be a call from authority. It wasn't, then, that he had not wanted to see her. She had wondered about it, and now that she had found out, it angered her a little. She was puzzled by her own illogical reasoning, resenting the effect of Lon's presence or his touch, yet hurt that he would consider other things more important than she was. ' THE following morning the sun rose on a cloudless sky. By ten o'clock, the day gave promise of being the hottest of the trip to date. "T'm glad we're not traveling today, Belle," said Selena as they finished their wash at the creek the men had dug away from the spring. "I think we needed the rest as much as the cattle and horses did." She looked away toward the clump of trees by which they had stopped their wagon. The shade looked very inviting. "T know what you're thinking, Selena," said Belle, following her gaze. "I'd enjoy lying around in the shade a bit myself on a day like this, but Josiah says there's no time to waste, that we've got to get to California and get some crops in as soon as possible." "T realize that," answered Selena, "but at least we can rest in the shade for awhile this morning. We've finished the wash. What's left that needs doing right now?" "Hay," answered Belle, picking up the pile of wet clothes. "Hay?" "Yes. This tall grass that the cattle have been enjoying so. Josiah says we'll never find any more of it until we get across the desert. Lon was there at the wagon this morning, after you left to go to the spring. He suggested that we repack the wagon, putting the things we must have every day near the back where we can get at them, then fill every wagon with the grass. The men have scythes to cut it, but the cattle have eaten it so far back away from camp that all the women and children will help carry it to the wagons and tramp it in." Selena sighed, her hopes for a pleasant, restful day vanishing. She went alongside of Belle, doYOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING ing her share, though Belle cheerfully offered to carry it for her. Back at the wagon she climbed in and tramped it down as firmly as she could, after it reached too near the wagon cover for Belle to get in and help. There were stickers in among the grasses that clung to her dress and scratched her legs through her heavy stockings. Late in the afternoon they stopped for a bite to eat and Alfred came by. He peered into the wagon and laughed heartily. "What is this? A haystack? You going to take it with you and set it down in your field in California? You won't need half that much to cross this little desert." He walked on, still chuckling. Selena, hot and tired and dirty, sat trying to pull the stickers and burrs from her clothing. This was like Lon, she decided bitterly. Always going to extra lengths of precaution, when half as much would probably have been enough. Hadn't they followed the trail many weeks and never been without grass yet? There was no room now for her to sleep in the wagon, so she moved her quilts out under the stars. She was completely exhausted and_ slept soundly through the oppressive heat of the night. SeLeENA awakened after Belle and Josiah were up, and as Belle opened the back flap on the wagon she called, 'That grass really sank low in the night. We've only got half a load." "Half a load?" Selena watched Josiah come up and look into the wagon. "That grass didn't sink anywhere. Someone stole it!" She saw the look of anger on 427 JUNE 1964 Josiah's face as he walked away hurriedly. She knew that Josiah suspected Alfred. She also knew there would not be an easy way to prove it. There had certainly been others besides Alfred who had thought it unnecessary to fill their wagons so full. After rolling up her bedding, Selena propped a mirror against the spokes in the wagon wheel, removed the pins from her long, dark hair and began brushing it, enjoying the clean feel of it. Just then Josiah returned to camp, Lon beside him. "IT thought it was mighty strange yesterday that he was so all-fired unconcerned about filling his wagon," Josiah was saying. "I think you're wrong, Lon, this time. Seems to me we should let him know we're on to the trick." "You can't prove it, Josiah," said Lon. 'Best thing to do is just let me take this fork and help you fill it up again. There's still some cut that wasn't carried in last night." Selena looked at Lon, startled. He stood there, strong and handsome, head bared, exactly as she had seen him a long time ago, and he held the fork as he had the shovel, throwing great thuds of earth into an open grave at Winter Quarters. Now began the most dreadful part of the journey, as the Lyman group moved ahead. This was the stretch from Resting Springs to the Mojave River, leaving the other party to take advantage of the feed and water they were leaving. "We'll reach Salt Springs first," said Josiah, as the wagon train 428 moved slowly along under the blistering sun. "Captain Hunt says we'll appreciate the water in our own barrels then, warm and brackish or not." And now, surprisingly to many, the road began to make a steady climb in the desert country, adding to the burden of both people and animals in the devastating heat. Selena began to feel the stickiness of her clothes. For several days there could be no water used for washing purposes. Every drop must be carefully hoarded to preserve the life of beast and man alike. The sandy floor of the desert was hot to the touch as they spread out bed covers at night, yet often, before morning came, the cold desert night caused the travelers to welcome a covering. Upon arising, there was no water to be used for washing faces. Selena felt the sand, which arose in a cloud from the movement of so many horses and cattle heavy in her hair under her sunbonnet. A cheer went up when, at last, the straggly growth of trees marking Salt Springs came into view. "You will find the water all right to do some washing," said Brother Lyman, riding back along the line. "But drinking it will only add to your thirst. Too much will make you sick, and if the animals are allowed to get to it, they will drink too much and we are certain to lose some of them." JosiAH, Belle, and Selena walked together to the spring. It ran clear and looked deceivingly clean and cool. "Tt looks all right, to me," Belle said, dipping her hand into . "T Wonder jf they're Sure this is the Spring that tastes SO awful," full to her m th. Josiah looked at Selena, Shaking his head "Phew!" Belle exclaimed "Fi ept away from it." "Sal Springs!" Belle Spoke dijssustedly, «T Ought al] along J any worse than aste it!" "And you Probably will," her husband agreed. "We can Wash, an Way," toward Bitter Springs, The Sparse Plenishing their 'ast-diminishing hay Supply, There wa | hill, the rock walking difficult. For the Temainder of the trip to € done With so that Lon could € around bermanent] vents 429 Gretchen Stratton Makes ir e-Winning Pillows Gretchen Stratton, LaVerkin, Utah, makes lovely decorative pillows for her friends and relatives. In 1963, her beautiful pillows, in designs of harmonious colors and exquisite stitchery, won first place at the Washington County Fair. This award was all the more notable because this dear sister has been blind for fourteen years. She has been a counselor in her ward Relief Society, and each year she gives The Relief Society Magazine to her daughters and daughters-in-law for their birthdays. Sister Stratton is mother to eight, grandmother to twenty-eight, and great-grandmother to twenty-four. Anna Marie Richins — Expert in Handicraft Anna Marie Richins, Las Vegas, Nevada, is an expert in many types of handicraft. Her braided rugs, fancy pillows, crocheted tablecloths, afghans, and doilies beautify the homes of many of her friends and relatives. She is also an expert at dressmaking and other kinds of machine sewing, making a creative art of ordinary household opportunities. Widowed when her twelve children were young, Mrs. Richins practiced the ways of industry and thrift. Six of her children are living, and she has nineteen grandchildren and twentytwo great-grandchildren. She has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for more than twenty-five years. 430 Maude Ww. Howard Desicninc beautiful flower arrangements is an art that is fascinating and rewarding. Our homes can be made attractive with flowers. They do add warmth and friendliness to our homes. Our homes can speak our personality when we make use of our own little touches. Flowers can enhance all of our cherished objects. As in any art, proper equipment is necessary, and the right tools make a difference. The essentials are few and inexpensive, but most important for successful flower arranging. A few of the basic needs or aids to flower arranging are: a knife, flower shears, a frog or a needle holder, oasis, wire, chicken wire, and basic containers. A good knife is a prime requisite. All flower stems should be cut. After a flower stem has been out of water any length of time and exposed to the air, it should be recut allowing water and oxygen to travel up the stem to the blossom. Flower shears are not recommended for cutting flower stems, because they tend to pinch the stems and cut off circulation to the water channels leading to the bloom. However, scissors are needed for many other steps and requirements in this. Work. Frogs or needle holders in various sizes are necessary for arranging in low, shallow containers, always remembering the frogs should be attached to the container with florists' clay before any moisture is added to the bowl. These frogs tend to hold stems upright and in place. Oasis, a new commercial product similar to a sponge, can be soaked in water over night, and when covered with foil, serves as a container in itself. However, I prefer to use oasis as a filler in another container so water may be added to the oasis daily. Floral wire is most useful to reinforce the flower stems and it also helps to hold the flower stem straight. If one wishes to attain a line arrangement with a flower, wire adds to the possible bending of the stem without breaking. Chicken wire is most successful when crushed to fit any shape of container. It is especially good in tall cylinder vases and urns because flowers are held in place. The stems can be inserted through mesh openings which hold stems in place and support them. Anything which holds water is a usable container for flowers, whether it be a compote, urn, shallow bowl, rectangular tray, jar, goblet, cylinder, or pillow type vase. Most generally we follow the line of the vase with our flower arrangement, curving with a curved or flare vase. More often, with an upright cylinder type vase, we make an upright straight arrangement which bespeaks modern or oriental art. We use few flowers, but place them carefully in a heaven, man, and earth fashion. This is three elevations filled in between with greens. If you are arranging flowers sent from a florist, remember to recut stems on the diagonal so when the stem is resting on the bottom of the vessel, circulation is not cut off and water can travel up the stem to the blossom. A stubby stem touches the bottom of the container so no action can take place. Remember at all times that flowers breathe in water through the stems, and a dry stem will not take in water even though the stem is submerged in water. This is most important to the lasting qualities of all types of flowers. 431 Before arranging flowers, always remember to remove all foliage below the water line. Always use a flower preservative such as one of the many commercial preparations for this purpose. Replace water as it evaporates from the container. Lukewarm water seems to make the stem more porous and allows quick water reaction up to the bloom. As an architect builds a home — makes plans and knows what he is going to do — we should proceed with flower arranging in much the same manner. We must know where the arrangement is to be placed in the home, whether it is to be on a radio, which wouldn't require flowers all around, or whether the arrangement would be placed on a low table or dining-room table, where it would need to be effective on all sides. We should take into consideration the surrounding colors and the decor of the home. So we must visualize what we want our finished product to look like and make a definite plan or use a picture from a magazine that we like and copy this if it fits our needs. Now we are ready to start our flower arranging. We have our necessary tools, together with a desired container and the plan which we wish to follow. I always start the arrangement in the center with three or five flowers of different elevations and work out the desired length needed. Keep in mind that flowers should always be once and a half times the height of the container and the same in length. We should always use small buds or flowers at the highest point, and as we come down we use the larger and more open flowers. We follow this same rule in color, using our more pastel color high and the stronger colors at the core of the arrangement. This gives a good balance without a top-heavy feeling. We work our flowers in a low and outgoing direction, thus giving them a three-dimensional look, which always creates more interest. When you receive a dozen roses from your florist, arrange them in a suitable vase, one which will be tall enough to hold enough water, remembering to recut the stems each day and add water enough to replace that which has evaporated. After the roses have bloomed out, stems can be shortened and utilized by arranging them in lower containers to prolong the life of the roses. We should always remember flowers that do not like drafts and artificial heat, should be placed in the coolest spot in the room. Whether we are going to enjoy our cut flowers depends somewhat on the tender care we give them. If our flowers wilt quickly and we have followed all instructions available, may I suggest you cut the stems and roll the top part of flowers in several pieces of wet newspaper. Leave the lower part of the stems exposed so that they can be put in a deep vessel of water and placed in a cool place. An over-night soaking of the blossoms in newspaper is preferred. In the morning they will be revived and will bloom out beautifully. The pleasure of working with flowers increases when we learn to manipulate them to achieve a wider range of design. The time to experiment with flowers ls when we have them in our gardens in profusion. Then we can work with them and become acquainted with the feel of flowers and know the capacity of the stems and blossoms, and the number of flowers needed for a specific arrangement. Women who enjoy flower arranging and are called upon to furnish arrangements for clubs, schools, or church functions should acquire interesting vases to accommodate different types and shapes of flowers and shrubs. It is so much easier to make an unusual arrangement in an unusual container. We are living in an era where we are more daring. When we create, we should try to create an arrangement which will act as a focal point or a conversation piece. They can be, if we take into consideration the decor and surroundings, and make our flower arrangements look like they belong and are a vital part of the room. Those of you who love to garden remember it is so essential to plant the right color and type of flowers in your garden so they can be used on the inside of your home—arranging the inside color of our homes to the outside and bringing the outside in so we do attain a more pleasing finished arrangement. 432 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL White pompoms, white stock, and blue forget-me-nots make a special arrangement for the bride-to-be. A wedding bell centerpiece with streamers of ribbons cascades to candelabra and stately candles. A fluffy nosegay encircled with bridal illusion attached to the wedding bell and candelabra carries out the wedding theme. Silver elegance, a dramatic arrangement in a silver ice bucket can complement any dinner party or buffet table. Combined with lovely silver candelabra, it lends a note of elegance and formality. Caution is given to keep the arrangement compact. This design is made from stately pink gladioli and pink and white carnations. | White and yellow pompom chrysanthemums, with a touch of forsythia and white stock, make an appealing ''off-center arrangement,' using a tall cherub compote with satin streamers cascading to a low nosegay arrangement of the same flowers. This arrangement is good when candles need to be eliminated. Portrait pink carnations are used in this new mound look. It creates excitement when used with branches of spring blossoms. Let your imagination work and add a touch of the awakening of spring by adding butterflies or birds. TRANSPARENCY BY H ARMSTRONG ROBERTS Peach Blossoms Eva Willes Wangsgaard What does earth offer lovelier than these Peach orchards redolent with coral bloom? Rich pinkness, feathery light, alive with bees And crimson promises in every plume. So sweet these petal clouds against the blue The robins must translate them into trills; And darting bluebird wings come flashing through The mists of pink and white which hide the hills. Smooth russet trunks which anchor them to earth Are surging with the miracle of fruit And seed insistent on a stony berth, For centuries repatterned in the root. Oh, treasure them! Too soon this petal foam Will answer earth and float back toward the loam. 435 TRANSPARENCIES BY L PAUL ROBERTS Peggy Tangren Gathering and Pressing Tue first pleasure in making these exquisite cards comes from gathering the foliage that grows in our gardens, on foothills, in canyons, and along roadsides. Always carry old magazines with you so you can place the plants between the pages before they wilt. As you do this, discard all thick stems and dry or disfigured leaves. Throw away bulky parts of flowers; as an example, press only the petals of sunflowers. Small flowers make the best designs. Be sure you have plenty of long, wide-blade grass, and grasses that have gone to seed. These can be used the way a florist uses fern to fill out a bouquet. Materials Needed Cut a side from a corrugated carton about 10" x 12". This is called the mat. You will need: four thumbtacks, Scotch tape, a roll of double wax paper, white or tinted facial cleansing tissues of good quality, a strong white glue, new pastry brush, envelopes, and white writing paper. If desired an extra pastry brush and paraffin may be used (see Tips at end of article). Diamond dust glitter is optional and can be purchased at craft stores. 436 Procedure Assuming your envelopes measure 4" x 6" (this is an ideal size), fold a sheet of white paper down the middle and cut this double sheet to size 334" x 534", or 1," smaller than the envelope. Open this sheet and make a heavy pencil line along the fold. This is your size sheet. Place it in the center of the mat and tape the four corners down. Cut a single sheet of paper to 334" x 534". This is your pattern sheet. On this pattern sheet place your leaves and flowers, breaking off a stem, adding a bit of grass, until you have created a design that pleases you. Lay this carefully beside your size sheet. Tear off a piece of wax paper the size of the mat, lay it over the size sheet, and thumbtack to the four corners of the mat. Dip the pastry brush in a mixture of half glue and half water and brush on the wax paper covering the size sheet and one inch over all around. The glue will draw and puddle on the wax paper, so let it. Carefully lift the vegetation off the pattern sheet and place it in an identical design on the right half of waxed paper covering the size sheet. Separate a two-ply tissue and place one tissue over the glued section. Very gently stretch the tissue to pull out creases and wrinkles. Dip the pastry brush in the glue mixture, hold in a vertical position, and, with dabbing motion, wet and pat down all the tissue. Leave no dry spot, but do not soak. Sprinkle glitter, if desired, over the design very sparingly. Lift waxed paper off the mat and place on a flat, clean surface to dry. When completely dry, place between two pieces of heavy brown paper obtained by cutting open grocery bags. Press with an iron just hot enough to sizzle. Turn and press again until the parchment card lies smooth and flat. Place again over size sheet, and, with pencil, mark the four corners. Place a long, straight-edged knife or metal-edged ruler from corner to corner, press firmly with one hand, and with the other tear by pulling toward you. Repeat process for each side. Fold, insert note paper, and your personalized "parchment" correspondence card is finished. Tips The wrinkles in the wet tissue add to the parchment effect when dry. To prevent colors in flowers from running, use a barely damp brush and apply glue to flower last, then quickly pat up all the moisture possible with a piece of tissue. If necessary, to make the flowers stand out clearly, touch with paraffin wax while pressing. 438 Relief Society Silver Service COLLEGE PARK WARD, WASHINGTON STAKE This lovely silver service, which includes two punch bowls and trays of various sizes, was purchased with money earned through the sale of glass pictures (see "Painting With Glass,'"' The Relief Society Magazine, March 1964, page 198, Article by Florian H. Thayne, transparencies by Robert Pease). The interesting and original hobby developed by Mrs. Betty Beesley Huber, ward work meeting leader, and her daughter Sharon Huber Carter, under sponsorship and direction of the ward and stake Relief Society, provided the funds for the purchase of the silver service, through the sale of glass pictures. The service is proudly displayed and used for Relief Society functions and for other stake and ward activities in Washington Stake, always reminding the sisters of the rewarding joy of creative activities when their individual talents are shared and become a part of the group accomplishments. 439 Plan for Your Bazaar in the Summertime Arrangements from the Work Meeting Display at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1963. One of the loveliest decorations uses an old-fashioned scale trimmed with artificial flowers or fruit and miniature lights. The one in the picture is made with an eight-inch circle of 3/8 unit plywood as a base, a dowel for the trunk, a smaller dowel for the crosspiece (set in at an angle). The trays are 1/4 in. Plywood circles with a styrofoam ball cut in half and glued to the plywood as a basis for the flowers or fruit. The scale is sprayed gold and the dowels are wrapped in gold ribbon. A gold cord is wound loosely around the upright dowels and formed into a loop at the top. The tiny lights are placed across the top dowel first and then into the trays and base. The scale is very effective decorated with red velvet roses or with red cherries or other small artificial fruits. Made by Zola McGhie TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL This is a very attractive three-dimensional wall plaque made with a plastic background. The grape clusters are made of marbles of three different colors. This booth was in the form of the outside of a store, looking inside. The backs of children's figures of cardboard were effective as if they were looking in the store window. Doils and dolls' clothes are excellent bazaar booth features. This picture shows a display of various kinds of the most popular dolls all beautifully dressed. The manner in which they are ~ This telephone book cover is made of medium felt to fit your local city directory with a three-inch turn-in on front and back. The edges are pinked and the cover is lined with _ Clear stiff plastic to make it more serviceable. The flower pot and stem are stitched by sewing machine about 1/8 inch from the edge. A circle of 5 inches in diameter is drawn 2 inches above the flower pot to form a nosegay. Some of the flowers and leaves are attached by sewing machine and some by French knots of wool yarn, worked from the outside to the center. Use your imagination in cutting the leaves and forming the flowers, which are all cut from felt, in color combinations of your choice. Made by Virginia Stake displayed promotes sales. The clothes may be purchased without the dolls. Made by South Davis Stake Made by Leah Vanjonora From South Cottonwood Stake Display Olive W. Burt AXtL over the country, artistically inclined people are turning back to the arts and crafts of our grandparents. They recognize in the pieced quilts, the braided rugs, the hand-carved wooden implements an aesthetic quality not found in machine-made articles. And when the exigencies of modern living and modern decor make it inadvisable to follow exactly the old tradition, clever fingers adapt the pioneer crafts to up-to-date uses. Such an adaptation is the 'crazypatch" evening skirt, made exactly as our pioneer ancestors made crazypatch coverlets. For this skirt, a twoyard length of white muslin is used for the foundation. If the width of the muslin is not enough to provide an ankle-length skirt, a strip of the necessary width should be machine-sewed onto one long side of the muslin. That is, the muslin should be two yards long and wide enough to reach from the waist to the ankle of the one who is going to wear the skirt. Assemble a variety of silk and velvet scraps. Trim a few of these into various shapes and pin them along an end of the muslin. 'Match the outside edges as much as possible to avoid waste. Turn under the edge of one piece and blindstitch it down, overlapping the raw edge of the next piece. Continue in this fashion, trimming pieces to match where necessary, and blind-stitching a turned under edge over a raw edge each time. By working from one end toward the other, the material is more easily handled. When the entire piece of muslin has been covered with crazy patches in this way, all seams are covered with a cross-stitch or feather-stitch, or herringbonestitch (or a combination of stitches) done in black thread. All that remains is to face the bottom edge with a narrow bias facing, seam up the two ends into one side seam, leaving a six-inch opening for a placket. Into this a zipper may be inserted if desired. Gather the top edge to the length required for the waistband; sew on the band and fasteners and the skirt is ready to be admired. Interest is added if some of the scraps are "donated" by friends, especially if the pieces have special interest — a bit of a chum's wedding dress; a scrap from Mother's familiar housecoat; Father's favorite necktie, all give added romance to such a skirt — which may well turn out to be a family heirloom. 442 MODEL ELLIE PENDLETON TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL Virginia Stake Relief Society Cut from good quality heavy felt the following oval-shaped pieces: From green felt, cut two pieces 7 inches in length and 6 inches across (in cutting, the fold would be 7 inches long). From white felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 6 inches long and 5 inches across. From bright pink-colored felt, cut one oval-shaped piece 5 inches long and 4 inches across. From black felt, cut six pieces the size and shape of watermelon seeds. Lay the white piece on top of one of the green pieces and stitch along the edge with white thread. Then lay the pink piece on the white piece and stitch along the edge with pink thread. Place a layer of air foam between the two green ovals, sew the two green ovals together along the edge with matching thread. Fold down the center and press. Attach the seeds to the pink with good quality glue, three seeds on each side of the center fold. Attach a white plastic curtain ring to one end of the green felt. These favors will stand up and add much attractiveness to the watermelon table, and the guests will be delighted with their favors, which can be used later in the kitchen as colorful pot holders. One of the most interesting ideas to help you beautify your home is the covering of styrofoam balls with self-adhesive satin ribbon. There are several reasons why homemade satin balls are valued: They are more economical; the balls do not snag and become "ragged" looking; and you can have a wide range of color and size depending on your own taste. Materials You are probably familiar with styrofoam, but do you know you can carve it with a serrated knife and make about any shape you wish? You can also use another piece of styrofoam to sand it with until it is smooth, or you may use regular sanding paper. This is the way you can make a pear shape (out of an egg shape) or a banana (out of a pole). As for that ribbon you use, it must be the type which sticks to itself when wet and strips easily. There are several brands available. For some of the fruit, you may wish to use chenille-covered stems or wire wrapped with green florist's tape, and artificial foliage. For tinting apricots or other fruit, a small amount of "blush" from water color paints may be used. (Continued on page 449) 444 Ribbon-Covered Fruit and Ornaments RaNae Gledhill Ciothing for the Very Young Helen Lach TRANSPARENICES BY HAL RUME FASHIONS FOR LITTLE GIRLS Left to right: Tracy Anderson, daughter of Bishop and Mrs. John A. Anderson, wearing a cute two-piece suit. The corduroy top has an appliqued flower-pot pocket. Complete cost 35c Lisa Whiteley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. John Whiteley, wearing a cotton plaid smock dress, with double organza collar and flower trim. Cost 65c Melinda Whiteley, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. John Whiteley, wearing a white petti-pique dress. The inverted pleats are trimmed with navy blue grosgrain bows. Cost 85c. Heather Campbell, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Pierce Campbell, in a bright red dacron frock. The tucked bodice front is trimmed with tiny white buttons. Cost 55c COATS AND A BLUE DRESS Top, left: Peacock blue, wool flannel, girl's coat and bonnet. Made by Alice Chaffer, Monument Park Ward. Center: Turquoise wool jumper and white dacron blouse. Made by Lynn Anderson, Monument Park Eleventh Ward. Top, right: Blue, wide-wale corduroy topcoat, with red cotton flannel lining. Made by Eileen McKean, Monument Park Third Ward. Lower left: Boy's wool topcoat and hat, made from a discarded coat. Cost 30c to make. New lining was used. Made by Merlynne Hoggan, Monument Park Second Ward. Lower right: Boy's wool tweed topcoat, made from a man's used sports jacket. New lining was used, and new cotton flannel interlining for extra warmth. Cost 90c Made by Florence Woods, Monument Park Twelfth Ward. *Myrtle Olsen is president of Monument Park Stake Relief Society, with Caro} Daynes as work director counselor, Kay Sullivan as work meeting leader, and Heler Lach, sewing instructor. This class was limited to one participant from each of the fivd wards. 446 New and Remade Outfits made by Monument Park Stake Relief Society Salt Lake City, Utah SPRINGTIME PARADE Left to right: Heather Campbell, wearing a daffodil yellow coat and bonnet set, made of ' washable pin-wale corduroy. The coat is fully lined and has a lace-trimmed over-collar. Cost of coat, hat, and cute washable bag $1.25. Tracy Anderson in a yellow batiste dress with lace and embroidery trim. Brad Campbell, son of Mr. And Mrs. Pierce Campbell, is smartly dressed in a two-piece suit with matching tie, made of washable Milliken flannel. Cost $2.00 Martha Evans, daughter of Mr. And Mrs. Edmund Evans, is very chic in an embroidered cotton frock. Cost 85c The combined cost of the clothing pictured in this group was under $5.00. Clothing of comparable style and quality, if purchased ready-made, would have been $30.00, or more. MOTHER AND DAUGHTER FITTING A DRESS IN RELIEF SOCIETY WORK MEETING Models: Janet Romney Crockett and daughter Elizabeth Crockett 448 (Continued from page 444) Designs and Arrangements Satin-covered fruit is very popular. A lovely bow! Filled with rich looking fruit can do much to brighten a living room. A wall plaque featuring a cornucopia with satin fruit tumbling out of it might be perfect in your dining room, or a cupid holding a bow! Of decorator-colored fruit can add just the right touch to a bedroom. (For decorator colors, make all the fruit in shades of one color, such as turquoise, lavender, or pink) Not only are satin balls beautiful in fruit bowls, but they make beautiful and inexpensive Christmas tree ornaments. This is an opportunity to use all that broken jewelry, old trims, laces, rhinestones, braids, the last of that package of sequins you have been saving, and any other trinkets you may have around your home. Can you think of a more fascinating Family Night activity than making your own ornaments out of such beautiful materials? Chances are that the junior members of the family will come up with the most original ornaments. Procedures Using the 34" wide ribbon, cut 5 strips and wrap around the styro ball, dampening your fingers as you go and barely overlapping one row on another. Be sure that you do not dampen the ribbon in advance, as it will curl and become unusable. Remember that in order for the ball to 'look evenly wrapped, you must wrap it from top to bottom. This gives a lengthwise grain appearance to the ball or egg. It is easier to learn how on an egg shape, as you can keep track of the top and bottom more easily. You must crisscross at the exact spot on the top and bottom. As you finish with one strip of ribbon, start another where you left off. You will find that you will have to dampen your fingers about every 4" or 5", in order to keep the ribbon moist. Practice makes perfect. If you are doing fruit for a bowl, start with a lemon first, as it is oval. If you find you have trouble keeping track of the top and bottom, you may try putting a corsage pin in each end and wrap toward it. Each size ball takes a different amount of ribbon and each person wraps a little differently, so the yardage required must be worked out for each ornament. Airborne Heritage Viola Ashton Candland 'Just yesterday |: watched a mole Today, | saw a little bird Burrowing: itself. A hole. Perched on my lilac bush, and heard Oblivious of the wide, blue sky. Him chirruping a song. Reflectively, | asked, ''Now, why Do only airborne birds belong 'Should | live like that stupid mole, To flowered bush and song and sky? Buried in a self-dug hole, Ah, no, not only birds, but I! And let life pass me by?" 449 Relief Society, Organized by ago, was designed to accomplish de benevolent service and to eduits members. These general functions of the Society n carried forward. The records of 1963 show remarkce, and accomplishment. The blessings of membershi of a million women (262,002), a total membership, the organization th the Prophet Joseph Smith 122 years a broad two-fold function — to provi cate and develop have zealously bee able growth, servi Pp were extended to more than a quarter n increase of 13,836 members. Of this 2,684 were non-L. D. S. Women who recognized within at which was uplifting and ennobling. The lofty purposes of the diversified program of Relief Society have been uniformly administered throughout the 5,583 ward and branch societies distributed in fifty-two countries of the world, the fifty states within the United States. Of this numbe are located in the 388 stakes of the Church and 1,93 districts in the seventy-one missions of th the locat unit consisted of six sisters in or ninety in an area of concentrated Ch for service, and spiritual, educational, been provided each of its members. Leadership service develo officered the various branch, tions. Of this number, 22,182 were class le their talents in their respective assi to increase understanding of the d influence Relief Society members to be leaders to deepen the appreciation of cla and to help gain enlightenment, spiritual upli reading good literature; the social men build better relationships with fully the principles of Church gove train Relief Society members In addition, the visiting ¢ vate the great corps of 113,680 visiti uplift the women visited monthly in pairs made 4,325,341 visits t districts. Included in this total number 11,451 non-L. D. S. Families who had reque teachers visit them in their homes. Refinemient, culture, and spirituality have been promoted both including each of r, 3,644 societies 9 in 311 mission e Church. Regardiess of whether a remote section of the Church urch membership, opportunities and cultural development have ped 173,587 Relief Society members' who mission, and stake organiza. Atiers who untiringly gave of gnments: the theology class leaders es of the Church and thereby tter living; the literature class embers for good literature ft and enjoyment through science class leaders to help the woin the home and to understand more rnment; the work meeting leaders to in sewing and other hamemaking skills. Eacher message leaders ward, district, labored to moti ng teachers so as to encourage and in their homes. Such visiting teachers in 60,640 visiting teacher of visits were those made to sted that Relief Society visiting participants and those who have listened to the harmonious strains music rendered by approximately 41.865 Singine Mothers in 2,902 choruses. Such music has been presented at special pregrams, concerts, socials, Church meetings, and funeral services. Music is considered an essential part of the Retief Society propram. The Relief Society Magazine, the official crgan of Revuef Society, containing the lessons studied by its members, arucles of general reading interest to women, religious messages, helps to howmvernekers, and choice literary stories and poems, was received by 217,397 suiteseribers throughout the world. Love-inspired compassionate Service, Ministering to the sick and comforting the sorrowing have continued among the imecertant serwioes unselfishly rendered by Relief Socwty mamioers during the past year. Upon assignment of Relief Society, 390.566 visits were made ta the sick and homebound: 32,666 days were spent in the cere of the sick: and 596,349 Hours were devoted to other compassionate Services, sweh as caring for the children of a sick mother or taking & Not meal to an aged neighbor. Relief Society members also dressed S36 bodies fOr Wurial and assisted at 9.644 funerals by providing suoh servires és the Handiing of flowers at the funeral service or the prepating of food for tim mem bers of the bereaved family. Relief Society under the direction of the Prresifead has alse anded in the care of the poor, the destitute, the widow. And the orolan tireupn the Church Welfare Program. Ward and branch Relief Somety presionnes under the direction of the Priesthood Visited lLOO. G69 taniles te ge termine their needs and made 50.653 ottiw: COMALTS wrifiy AUT) Cenilms A total of 902,22) hours were contributed by fariere member of tie Church on welfare projects, such as canning of frulls and vegetables ena sewing needed clothing, Homemaking skills were developed anil creates tsiengy d Sword and better methods of hore NWiandgentent a ing homemaking tasks were al@o learnwel Thus, the revord of serviewe ant geenr iphonments of Maint Se throvg@hout the wore' aba) wlledte fo Ue ¢ worlen S$ Organwaton estab by the Prophet al God and CAP IMPRTION In thie | tw lie wave al peas Tereens mily of iti orewt + ONS « wreitlirg eel @ tial -~ bainsiivewd fo Ge the ollleal natrare 4 Md Trher Swiste Srewlery Ty easurer v Med Slote by the sisters as they completed a total ef tm number 687.091 were sewed afticles je iu household furnishings, and 367.863 wera uther & Of tis Hine ans arvicieg Aw 1963 G of Relief ne Ge N STAKES | LJ 31 Me Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Delaware District of Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Mlinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississipp! Missouri et al 9) Columbi EOG Society Orga Organi zations mbet ' el IN MISSIONS Members zations Members RAPHI Organt- 29 17 180 10 520 70 164 463 356 747 232 201 468 128 609 109 316 45 144 24 192 475 300 CAL nizations and Members DISTR United States Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin wyoming Total United State Organizations Member IBUTION in the United States IN MISSIONS | oe Organtzations} M. Embers 6 i 395: 4,112 i 146 511 1,863 ' 1,135 + 1,177 \ 168 1 1,222 i 654: 4,489 ' 910 } 38 592 12,242 ' Colorado Connecticut 18 } | 74) 2,277 Argentina Australia Austria Bermuda Belgium Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland italy of Relief Society Organizations and Members in Other Countries 27 961 | Spain Korea IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS Japan Lekanon Mexico Netherlands New Zealand: Nicaragua Norway Okinawa j Panama Canal Zone| Philippine Islands | Paraguay Peru Puerto Rico Poland Samoa Scotland Sweden | Switzerland Tonga H Union of So. Africa | Uruguay Wales Total United States 3 Total Other Countries GRAND TOTAL reanl tions an 12 | 250 Viembers x 592 i 306 | 10,335 /1,347 3,644 223,976 1,939 sjMembers 701 305 12 2,482 t+ N _————EEE ~~ - 3,930 | 1,653 5,583 Organiations Members 701 fo.) [o.0) + | 36,119 & —_ 262,002 i 1962 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 13,836 Membership Growth 1963 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP INCREASE MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Leaders in the Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers ORGANIZATIONS Organizations (Total) Stake and Mission Organizations (Total) Stakes Missions Mission Districts Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions Increase or Decrease t i j i 262,002 248,166 223,976 | 211,736 38,026 2,684 | Not tabulated 173,587 | 164,035, 9,552+ 4,417 1,189 20,874 i? \ | t 5 11,245: 22,182 36,430 4,097 1,064 19,892 H i i ' j j i | j; { 10,586 | 21,144 113,680 | 107,252 6,353 | { 770° 388 71. 311 5,583 3,644 1,939 ' 13,836 + 12,240+ | 1,596+ | | 320+ | 125+ | 982+ | 6594+ 1,038+ 6,428+ 1963 1962 Increase or Decrease L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers In Missions | 2,738 Ward and Branch Singing Mothers | ] | Approximate Number of Sees Iee 41,865 | t | In Missions 7,272 | 7,320: MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions | 217,397 | 201,570 37,835+ 21,595+ 16,240+- Not tabulated in 1962 15,827-+: L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes SINGING MOTHERS Choruses (Total) In Stakes In Missions In Stakes 529,439 | 491,604 434,531 | 412,936 94,908 | 78,668 11,451 \ 8,713: | 2,902 | 2,724) 2,262 | 2,135) 640, = 589 34,593 33,515. VISITING TEACHING 113,680 VISITING TEACHERS MADE 4,325,341 FAMILY VISITS increase increase 1963 1962 or 1963 1962 or Decrease Decrease VISITING TEACHING COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Visiting Teachers 113,680 107,252; 6,428+ Days Care of the Sick 32,666 | 30,732; 1,934+ Visiting Teacher Districts 60,640 56,823) 3,817+ Visits to Sick and Homebound 390,566 | 365,822) 24,744+ Family Visits (Total) 4,325,341] 4,133,868 |191,473+ Number of Hours of Other Home 2,864, 2,751,425 |112,919+ Compassionate Services 596,349 | 498,290} 98,059+ Not Home 1,460,997 1,382,443 78,554+ Bodies Dressed for Burial 836 838) 2a Per Cent at Home 66.229 66.55% Funerals at Which Relief Communications in Lieu of Visits 136,169 130,285) 5,884+ Society Assisted 9,644 9,251 393+ Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses (Total) 3,674 3,470 204+ An average of 8 visits was made to each family in 1963 In Stakes 2,980 2,810 170+ An average of 8.41 visits was made to each family in 1962 In Missions 694 660 34+ AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Tota!) in Stakes In Missions Theology Work Literature Social Science Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings DEVELOPMENT THROUGH EDUCATION 1963 Number Per Cent 1962 Number Per Cent 100,561 83,629 16,932 107,504 102,777 95,486 96,476 59,912 26,346 38.4 37.3 44.5 41.0 39.2 36.4 36.8 52.7 44.0 93,224 78,193 15,031 99,439 95,097 86,809 91,075 54,967 24,738 37.6 37.0 41.3 40.1 38.3 35.0 36.7 51.3 43.6 SEWING Articles Completed (Total) Sewed Articles (Total) Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles (Total) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 22,182 CLASS LEADERS 1,054,894 687,091 25,287 70,617 85,569 4,013 264,526 237,079 367,803 5,613 5,067 546 886,856 611,591 5,084 236,487 202,233 275,265 4,892 4,342 550 168,038+ 75,500+ 1,707+ 9,520+ 2,459+ 1,071 - 28,039+ INFLUENCED 262,002 MEMBERS NOILVONGS ONIAVASAWOH PRONOUN. INAWIOTAASS. Total Meetings Held Relief Society General Conference 1 1 Relief Society Meetings at Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) Other Functions Increase 1962 or Decrease 1963 MEETINGS 252,175 |217,178 |34,997+ 142+ 7,328 4,097 gs 3,231 187+ 110+ 77+ Stake and Mission Board Meetings Stake and Mission Leadership Meeti 234,456 179,468 35,621 19,367 10,003 209,787 163,889 31,605 14,293 24,669-+- 15,579+ 4,016+ 5,074+ Regular Meetings for Members Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings 1963 1962 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families soa 50,653 97,515 902,221 | 894,957 63,957 | 63,389 215,516 | 218620 5,587 4,337 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS 32,060 24,241 7,819 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements wanna. -aSeeeees ae$2,151,410.47 4,210,497.66 Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1963 Receipts SCO ZN$6,361,908.13 DisburseMentS..........--2-.----2eeeeenneenneenneceeenceecee eens ee eee' Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 1963 4,019,969.83 a$2,341,938.30 Assets — December 31, 1963 Net Cash on Hand December 31 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office..........--...----------2--+/+222--- Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings Increase or Decrease 3,454+ 7,264+ 568+ 3,104 — 1,250+- 4,918+ 2,818+ 2,100+ ne$2,341,938.30 422,912.22 77,926.67 107,878.52 TUTTE ASS EATS eee$2,950,655.71 Stake Quarterly Conferences To Wards and Branches (Total) By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers 363 36,978 27,059 9,919 All material submitted for pubheation in this department should be sent 'ivengh stake and misston Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the stilemittal of material for "Notes From the Ficld" in the Magazine for raga TOSS. Page 47. And in the Relief Society Hlandbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES European Mission, Relief ociety Leaders and Singing Mothers at Servicemen's Conference, Bertchesgaden, Germany November 1963 Upper picture, left to right: Mary Russon, Swiss Mission; Lyle Petersen, Norwegian; Frieda Loscher, 'Austrian; Jean Fletcher, Swedish; Ingred Sorensen, Danish; Ruth Benson, Central German; Emily Myers, North German; Frances Tate, Berlin; Genevieve Gardner, South German; Carolyn Brugger, Servicemen's Relief Society Coordinator, European Mission. Not in the picture: Minnie P. Burton, European Mission; Agnes Jacobs, Bavarian; Marilyn Anderson, Finnish; Edith McIntire, West German Mission. Lower picture: Singing Mothers who presented music for the conference. Sister Brugger reports: "For three spiritually filled days, we met and partook of the spirit of our wonderful leaders. There were two special meetings for Relief Society, one a special workshop for presidents and secretaries, with specific helps given on the annual report. A skit was presented to point out better ways to prepare the narrative section of the report. A question and answer period was informative to all. "On the final morning of this conference, our lovely spiritual Relief Society session was held. Edith McIntire, of the West German Mission, gave a farewell tribute to Minnie P. Burton, thanking her, on behalf of all of us, for the willing service she has given. The Germans refer to Sister Burton by saying, 'Sie ist eine Dame' (She is a lady). This is a German's highest tribute to a woman. A cut crystal candy dish was presented to Sister Burton to remind her of the love and respect we feel for her. Sister Burton, in her remarks, asked that we open the door for the Savior. Sister Maxine Hanks, of the British Mission, expressed the desire that we all have the proper attitudes. Sister Freda Joan Lee, wife of our beloved apostle Harold B. Lee, expressed a hope that we would pray with our children. Each sister who spoke left her testimony and love with us. "Singing Mothers from all parts of Europe blended their voices and gave moving renditions in the Relief Society sessions, and in a general session of the conference. When we left the beautiful Bavarian Alps, we had a renewed desire for service and stronger testimonies, and we were indeed spiritually fed and physically uplifted." 460 JUNE 1964 Tacoma Stake (Washington), Tacoma First Ward Bazaar November 1963 Left to right: Rosella Seal, First Counselor; Marion Harris, President; Vera Casto, Second Counselor; Bessie Groom, work meeting leader. Jennie Wheeler, President, 'Tacoma Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Tacoma First Ward proved the worth of hard work in preparing for their bazaar. They made a total of $550. About $140 was earned from serving a turkey dinner the evening of the bazaar, and the remainder came from items made by the sisters during the year. The pillowcases draped over the front of the table were made by Anna Conquest, a sister who is eighty-one years old. She averages a pair of pillowcases a month, but the month before the bazaar she made three pairs. All are solid embroidery. Best sellers at the bazaar were eighteen sets of tea towels, plus some singles; a dozen sets of pillowcases, two dozen cloth balls, detergent bottle covers, eleven doll quilts, four large quilts (with orders for more); two dozen cloth hangers, aprons, and children's clothing. We certainly felt that this fund-raising activity was an outstanding example of diligence and cooperation." Reseda Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Different Occasions Merlene Colarusso, President, Reseda Stake Relief Society, reports: 'In recent months, the Reseda Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus has presented a spring concert, commemorated the Society's anniversary, given an autumn concert, and was featured in the stake Inter-Faith social. Maryann M. Mendenhall is chorister, and Carol C. Cook, organist." Whittier Stake (California) ''Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair'' September 20, 1963 Left to right: Jean Ann Bowman and Jacqueline Kaline, two of ninetythree models who participated in the fashion show. Rea W. Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society, with Bette McDonough and Alta Ellis as her counselors. Sister Jorgensen reports: " "Come to the Fair — Our Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair.' With these words, the Whittier Stake Relief Society set the stage for a full evening of festivity and fashion. An ingenious carousel and a giant pink horse delighted both models and spectators as the curtains parted. Musical numbers were interspersed with a colorful narration which kept the fair moving at a lively pace. Models, from toddlers to grandmothers, came on stage in small groups to view the wonder and excitement created with paint and paper. "This fashion fair was the culmination of a summer sewing school held in each ward of the stake. Ensembles for all occasions were proudly worn by those who had taken advantage of this wonderful opportunity afforded them by the Relief Society. Various fashions shown included morning, afternoon, and evening wear, children's apparel, mother and daughter outfits, maternity wear, and accessory magic. As each of the ninety-three models walked down the ramp toward the many gaily decorated booths, a capacity audience of nearly 450 applauded their appreciation for the efforts of these sisters." 462 Florida Mission, Florida West District Visiting Teachers Honored October 27, 1963 Front row, left to right: Carol Jean Sweetwood, theology class leader; Tottie Brown, visiting teacher adviser; Effie Tucker (thirty-four years of visiting teaching); Thursa Adisson (seventy-eight years old, oldest visiting teacher); Sister Wilson Allred, youngest visiting teacher; Stella Herring, President, West Florida District Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Nona Goodson, First Counselor; Florence Ewing, pianist; Dorothy Britsch, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Norton, Second Counselor; Tura Lee Buzzett, Magazine representative; Mary Etta Williamson, literature class leader. Loree Faircloth, social science class leader, and Gayle Farnsworth, chorister, were not present when the picture was taken. Ollie Hutchinson, President, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: "The West Florida District honored the visiting teachers at leadership meeting, October 27, 1963. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented and enjoyed by all present. We feel that all were inspired by the meeting to be more prompt and faithful in magnifying their callings as visiting teachers. Corsages and Relief Society pins were presented to the sister with the most years of service, to the oldest sister, and to the youngest." Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board October 1963 Front row, left to right: former President Nina Beth G. Cunningham; Education Counselor Rula B. Johnson; Work Director Counselor Ada H. Reid; Secretary-Treasurer Rue Spencer. Back row, standing, left to right: Nellie H. Weaver, chorister; Virgie T. Packer, organist; Viola J. Gold, Magazine representative; Mary G. Lancaster, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Hendrix, work meeting leader; Lucille A. Gibbs, literature class leader. Ulden Shupe, social science class leader. Sister Cunningham reports: "For the first time in the history of Gooding Stake in Southern Idaho, the full stake board attended the Relief Society Annual General Conference in October 1963, with the exception of the theology class leader, which position was not filled at that time. These sisters expressed great appreciation for the wonderful inspiration and helps given by the capable General Board sisters, and by the General Authorities. Each of the stake board members in the picture has served for many years in Relief Society work, and has given faithful and devoted service." Elaine P. Dixon is the new president of Gooding Stake Relief Society. Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Relief Society Annual Christmas Exhibit November 21, 1963 Left to right: Annalesa Strom, a native of Sweden, who demonstrated Christmas customs in Sweden; Evelyn Lewis, Work Director Counselor, Cowley Ward; Helen Snell, work meeting leader, Cowley Ward. Pauline R. Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward exhibited outstanding work and demonstrated the Christmas customs of other lands and served each visitor with a taste of native foods served at Christmastime in that land. The stake Relief Society board served punch and pretty cookies to all who attended, from a beautiful Christmas table. The purpose of this exhibit each year is to help our own sisters and give them ideas for Christmas, and also to interest nonmembers. It has grown so large we are afraid our cultural hall will not be large enough for one day's display. Between five and six hundred people attended." 464 JUNE 1964 North Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Annual Christmas Concert, December 21, 1963 Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports: "Amid the festive holiday splendor of poinsettias and holly, sixty Singing Mothers of the North Davis Stake sang songs of the Christmas season and hymns of praise to the Prince of Peace at their annual Christmas concert. It was an evening long to be remembered by families and friends who filled the chapel to overflowing. "The table in one foyer was decorated to depict an old-fashioned Christmas, with an oil lamp, bowls of shiny red apples and popcorn, and an old Bible opened to the Christmas story. Decorations in the other foyer portrayed "Peace on Earth," with a nativity scene, a Bible opened to Luke 2, candles and poinsettias. "The sisters were dressed in snowy white blouses and dark skirts, each with a colorful red Christmas corsage. As the narrator set the atmosphere for each musical number, colored slides of nativity scenes were shown to bring to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. "Following the concert, refreshments, consisting of French pastries and fruited punch, were served at two beautifully decorated tables which added to the yuletide atmosphere. Iola Murray was the capable director of this lovely evening. The superb artistry upon the organ by Alice Gailey, and the equally beautiful accompaniment upon the piano by Marvetta Saunders (mother and daughter) were enjoyed by all. Talented guest artists presented special vocal and instrumental numbers. "These mothers have faithfully met at nine in the morning each Saturday to practice for the Christmas concert and stake conference. To be a Singing Mother is a joy and satisfaction which is held in high regard among our members. Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, and her Counselors LaVon S. Reid and Vera Thurgood, and board members were responsible for the planning, decorations, and refreshments for this lovely and successful evening." 466 2 the Prophthrough unifying them in 4 body Joseph Smith Was in Ohio of faithfy] followers. Except for about + Months na day Whe Phasis jg hile 80ing to and fro Jackson Placed Pon individ al responsi ounty, Issouri even of the bility + ISSiona Work, we fifteen Sectio that ake up this learn through the Prophet Joseph Series lessons Were Celved jn mith ¢ responsible Per 1832 €Y Consist of some of the Son in the G h is ¢ €e from better-k Tevelations in the is obligation S Principles Octrine Ovenants Many Y which hall be Judged are aSpects o se revelations are Mentioned d th attitude of Presented All he r Velations e Saints toward those Not of the Studied ag Sources of Wisdom and ne he g eat Priesthoog Suldance life Includeg for revelation if Pensation Study th yea ection 76 as Tecelved In 1832 € Saints Which has €en called the 8randwere imbued with esire to est and t nderfy] revelation learn ore about he Zion of the on the st that has latter days a i glory The ever been Tevealed, T © Principles temple to built in Jackson Ol justic » Mercy, and love are County, Miss Ppeared to be und there » and Magnaof Considerable interest to the Nimity of Cope invo] ng the sa] members, so Ord gave invation of ha ot been ormation bout this holy Struc- €avoring to bring about the ecowho honor and Magnify their cal]]- nomic Welfare of its Members Ings in the kingdom of God. Tests JUNE 1964 on how well the citizens of the kingdom of God, male and female, honor the Priesthood are found in this material. Other aspects of the Priesthood are considered, such as the healing of the sick in the true Church. The loyal saint accepts the interpretations of the revelations from the First Presidency. Several times during this dispensation some interpreters of revelations have been misled in their desire to foster their own interests, and they have departed from the time-tested principles which keep the kingdom of God a house of order. A lesson is devoted to a revelation which has given rise to much speculation. Always the saint has found safety in heeding the guidance received from the leadership of the Church. Concluding this year's lessons is one of the most remarkable prophecies of modern times. One of the functions of the Lord's prophet is to warn the world of the consequences of evil-doing. Joseph Smith's mission as a prophet is confirmed in the prophecy on the American Civil War and the other events mentioned in that revelation. If there has ever been a time when the saints should listen to the prophet's voice it is in this day of prophesied war and other calamities. The 1964-65 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 57 — The Vision (D&C 76:1-49). Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat. Lesson 58 — The Vision (concluded) (D&C 76:50-119). Objective: To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved. Lesson 59 — The Church Independent (D&C 78, 83). Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church. Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (D&C 79, 80, 81, 82). Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says. Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (D&C 84:1-42). Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant. Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (concluded) (D&C 84:43-120). Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and the place of the Priesthood in the plan. 468 LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (D&C 85). Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord, and how claim to office may be tested. Lesson 64 — The Prophecies on Wars (D&C 86, 87). Objective: To understand the parable of the Wheat and the Tares and to study some prophecies given by Joseph Smith concerning the American Civil War and subsequent world events that witness him as a true prophet. Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Messages for 1964-65 Christine H. Robinson Tue Doctrine and Covenants, containing revelations and instructions given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, is our modern scripture designed to provide specific guidance to all of us in our daily lives. The pages of this remarkable scripture are full of fundamental truths which can help us achieve a higher level of joyous, purposeful living. The 1964-65 "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," as in previous years, present, emphasize, and _ illustrate specific character and personality traits necessary in the foundation of a full Christian life. For example, the 1964-65 messages discuss such important personal qualities and attitudes as obedience, thankfulness, unselfish service, resistance to temptation, the pitfalls and dangers involved in attempting to judge others, the importance of developing our own God-given talents, together with such fundamental truths as the fact that all men will be judged by their own works and that we must seek and understand the work of the Lord as the source of all truth. More specifically, the great principle of obedience is discussed in relation to the fact that all blessings from the Lord are based upon strict adherence to his laws and requirements. Moreover, when we follow the Lord's instructions he is bound to bestow upon us the blessings associated with this obedience. The important human attitude of thankfulness is discussed in relation to the effect it has in enlarging and glorifying the personality. In presenting the divine principle of unselfish service to others, emphasis is placed on the fact that joy and happiness come to those who are deeply concerned and interested in the welfare, success, and happiness of their neighbors. Each of these messages is developed so as to demonstrate how 469 JUNE 1964 the application of these living truths can improve our own lives and set the foundation for joyous, purposeful accomplishments. Again this year, these living truths are supported with illustrative examples designed to clarify the principles being taught and to motivate personal application. The 1964-65 visiting teacher messages and their objectives are as follows: Message 57 — ''Leave Judgment Alone With Me, for It Is Mine and | Will Repay'"' (D&C 82:23). Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others. Message 58 — ''And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness Shall Be Made Glorious..."" (D&C 78:19). Objective: To emphasize the fact that thankfulness enlarges and glorifies the personality and radiates a spirit of friendliness. Message 59 —"'Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor... D&C 82:19). Objective: To deserve the Lord's blessings, and the love of our neighbors, our actions must show genuine interest in and concern for others. Message 60 — "... That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea Even an Hundred Fold... '' (D&C 82:18). Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded. Message 61 — ''Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" (D&C 82:5). Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard. Message 62 — ''For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth Is Light..." (D&C 84:45). Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly. Message 63 — "For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works...." (D&C 76:111). Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions. Message 64 — "'I, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What | Say; But When Ye Do Not What | Say, Ye Have No Promise" (D&C 82:10). Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come. 470 Molding a Happy Life Preview of Discussions for 1964-65 Winnifred C. Jardine Objctive: To determine those things which a mother in any stage of life can do to bring happiness into her home, to each member of her family, and to herself in today's world. Mian is that he might have joy." As Latter-day Saints we know that there is no greater quest on this earth than the search for happiness. And there is no greater mission for a Latter-day Saint woman than to fill her home and the lives of those around her with the happiness and joy spoken of by Jacob in 2d Nephi. By her very dedication to the care and comfort of her family and the building of a home, she will reap great measures of joy for herself, for as President Heber J. Grant has said, "The true way to be happy is to do something to add to others' happiness.... Forget self, and joy here and hereafter will come to you." Teachings of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are all directed to this happiness we seek. And because our religion is practical, it can be applied to matters of everyday concern, matters that have direct bearing on the happiness of us all — the health of the family, Discussion 1: Introduction personal attractiveness, resources, daily work, communication. It is hoped that through these discussions we will remember that a life of happiness is made up of individual days, and that each day should be a satisfying unit in itself. It is as though we must account to our Heavenly Father at the conclusion of each twenty-four hours for the stewardship he has given us of family and friends, home, material goods, work to do, talents, and the love of dear ones. And if, at the close of each day, we can give an accounting of having used these resources reverently and respectfully, multiplying their value and increasing their yield, then these daily stones will build into monumental lives of joy. To this end the 1964-65 home management discussions are directed. They will concentrate upon the physical tools we have to use in molding happy lives for our families and ourselves. Objective: To decide what happiness is and what some of the bases for its achievement may be. Discussion 2: Health and Its Influence on Happiness Objective: To examine common-sense ways of maintaining good health within the family. Discussion 3: Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness Objective: To see the effect of our personal attractiveness on our own and our family's happiness. 471 JUNE 1964 Discussion 4: Home — A Haven of Happiness Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family. Discussion 5: Using One's Resources to Find Happiness Objective: To appraise ways one can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of her family and herself. Discussion 6: The Happiness That Comes From Work Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness. Discussion 7: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part 1) Objective: To discuss the need for improving one's own power of expression as an asset to happiness. Discussion 8: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part Il) Objective: To point up the great need among family members and friends to understand each other through good communication. LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I: The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah Preview of Lessons for 1964-65 Dr. Bruce B. Clark For the first time in its history the Relief Society organization is publishing its own textbook for use in the literature program for the two years ahead. As indicated above, the general title of the work is Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I, just published, and intended for two years' use during 1964-65 and 1965-66, is sub-titled The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature. Parts II and III, now in preparation, are intended for use in subsequent years. The authors are Bruce B. Clark, Professor of English and Chairman of the English 472 Department at Brigham Young University, and Robert K. Thomas, Associate Professor of English and Director of the Honors Program at Brigham Young University. The principal idea behind the new book and the new literature program related to it is that the best way to study literature is to read it — that the work of literature itself is more important than anything that can be said about it or its author. Therefore, rather than emphasize historical and biographical matters, the new approach will emphasize the selections of literature themselves, often devoting a full lesson to just one or two short stories or poems. It would be desirable and beneficial to the Relief Society sisters if they would obtain copies of the new text and come to meetings prepared to discuss poems, stories, etc., contained therein. Fairly extensive comments on the selections are printed in the text, but these pertain principally to critical analysis and interpretation rather than to historical or biographical background. They are meant to supplement rather than substitute for a reading of the works themselves. Literature is vivid and exciting and provocative and inspiring — but only when it is read. And it should be read not only by the literature leaders but also by all of the Relief Society sisters. The selections in the new book — and therefore the lessons also —are arranged by theme (subject matter) rather than by time or country. In the past, several years have been spent on English literature, including two years on Shakespeare, and several years on American literature. Now the selections will be drawn from world literature — some modern and some ancient, some from one language and some from another, some of one type and some of another. Experience persuades us that the best story or poem for group discussion is one that focuses on some psychological, philLESSON DEPARTMENT osophical, or ethical question, yielding insight into human values, ideals, truths, problems, and frustrations. The new book contains selections rich in such insights, and these insights are emphasized in the textual analysis of the works. Three standards have _ controlled the selection of each poem or story included in the new text: (1) that it be literature of high quality; (2) that it explore subject matter and convey a message of value to the women of the Church and their families; (3) that it be written in such a way as to be understandable and meaningful to the readers for whom it is intended. This third point presents a special problem because the Relief Society membership includes women of such varied background. So that the book can be as useful and meaningful as possible, each section contains some relatively difficult selections and some relatively easy ones. Comments in the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine will suggest ways of using these selections for different groups. Also, the book contains in each section a number of "extra" selections, intended to supplement and enrich the lesson material itself and to provide reading material for use in the homes of the Relief Society sisters. The lesson titles and objectives for 1964-65 are as follows: Lesson 1 — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Objective: To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism. Lesson 2 — Literature ''Tasted... Swallowed... Digested"' Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight. 473 JUNE 1964 Lesson 3 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part | Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part II Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Lesson 5 = Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part | Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of worldly materialism and affirms higher values. Lesson 6 — Exploring. Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Il Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness. Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part Ill Lesson 8 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part IV Objective: To show how literature reco faults in oneself than of seeing them in Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government gnizes the greater difficulty of seeing other people. I sw epee came Preview of Lessons for 1964-65 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Eacu year the social science lessons of the Relief Society examine an area of human interaction, observe the forces producing human behavior, and consider ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of our society. In the first of the series on Divine Law and Church Government emphasis was placed on divine law as the basis for Church government, and on Church government as Priesthood in action. It was pointed out that divine 474 law has been continuously available to man, and that God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality al LESSON DEPARTMENT and eternal life of man" (Pearl PTT ttt; of Great Price, Moses 1:39). Tention was focused upon Chan, | SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES government as an effective and thoroughly organized unit fully providing for interrelations of the various parts, dominated by the divine nature of the Church as a whole. SiABIDE WITH ME; light of divine law. The design of the Creator for the perfection | -~---GOD OF ALL NATURE—Techaikovsky....30 of mankind unfolds in the revelations of the divine will expressed |! |GO YE FORTH WITH function of Church government is and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). Our attention is called to the fact that the law of God and his organization is devoted entirely to helping man achieve his greatest potential. Force is not the method, but counsel, persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, and love unfeigned, together with the development of faith through inspiration and revelation, is God's method. (D&C 121:41.) From this point of view, Church government should provide the direction for the activity of Church members. Every phase of life from birth to death, including the daily routine of making a living or solving the problems of society, should be included. Honesty, full respect for the rights of others, unselfishness and love of fellow men are the basic requirements for citizenship in I USIC the kingdom of God. "We should | HALAL aaa I | |........ IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen ___.25 ---. IN HIS STEPS—Wilson _.. 7).. LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen -20 A, ONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Sullivan.30 Lee allTWENTY THIRD PSALM—Schubert -25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval I! | |! I! L | I | | l l I l I I | I I iHEAVENS ARE |!! I! L | l l l | I I I I I! L I l I l | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! 15 E. Ist South | Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 ' Please send the music indicated H above. { O On Approval Charge! Money Enclosed; Name..! Address 1 t City and State aristocracy of character and to a In the current series our effort is to see all human activity in the in Church government. The basic "to bring to pass the immortality put forth every effort to supplant the aristocracy of wealth with the 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen....20 ETERNAL LIFEa MY WORD—Madsen |... 25 TELLING—Haydn a J salir tort eck, iat South oe eke Ginyell, Uiige JUNE 1964 awaken in the minds of the youth a realization that to be honest, to be dependable, to be a loyal citizen of the country, to be true to the standards of the Gospel are the noblest ideals of life" (McKay, President David O.: Church News, October 26, 1963, page 2). Priesthood is dynamic, demanding creativeness. Progress is the objective. Government of the Church has the challenge of growth and expansion until it touches the life of every human being upon the earth. As a successfully functioning organization it must produce evidence of the continual improvement of human conduct. The final product is the perfected individual, and the perfected human family. The function of Church government must embody all of the benefits of divine guidance. Satan's plan would have robbed man of progress. It would have taken away decision. It would have applied force instead of reason. Christ's plan provided for personal growth through initiative, decision-making, and creativity. His plan recognized the potential of Godhood in man and provided an organization through which man may enjoy unlimited development even to the perfection of the Father.* "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Matt. 5:48). Christ's government on earth as in the heavens must call forth the divine characteristics of man in overcoming selfishness, greed, and hate, and in controlling the appetites, disciplining the mind, and in stirring man with a neverending thirst for and the quest of knowledge. The following lesson outline for this year will give detailed expression to the ideas involved in the above discussion: Lesson 15 — The Application of Divine Law to Life Objective: To emphasize that religion and life are and must be one. Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home _ is claimed on meritorious behavior. Lesson 17—The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations (concluded) Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations. Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community Objective: To point out that the functioning of the Priesthood involves the total of human experience. Lesson 19 — The Value of Church Activity Objective: To show that activity in the Church is essential to the fulness of life. Lesson 20 — The Church Welfare Program Objective: To increase our understanding of the meaning and implications of brotherhood. Lesson 21 — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men Objective: To emphasize the vital role of the function of Church government in bringing about peace on the earth. 476 Ida Elaine James There is a bliss in solitude of night When the grass is a mint of silver, softly bright, The crickets singing litanies of praise in harmony with our nights... Their days.... Little branches weave their soothing fingers Across night's forehead, where peace lingers. Day's wounds are soothed, and languid air Rests the tired heart, for everywhere Is beauty's blanket mercifully spread Impartially over the living and the dead. In the garden, lilies whitely gleaming Invite us tenderly to share their dreaming. Star-jewelled sky — earth's counterpane, we rest — I'll say my prayers, and sleep upon her breast. WORLD'S FAIR — MAY TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Tour leaving July 12, includes Hill Cumorah Pageant, World's Fair, Montreal and Quebec, Canada EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII JUNE 17 — OCTOBER 12 TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Piease include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2...... 55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 3...........60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone &..........1.20 Zone 5.......... 80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 477 * Complete With ULL, pe ® The Whole Family May Use With Complete Safety. I * Can Be Used Right or Left j Please send me. Pair of! EA Welcome sift for every! Ae ee Homemakey i an I a. * Wonderfy) for the Young | City Bone Ten a SOHC I ul WORLD's FAIR TOURS d 21 oYS — June 21 to July 17, World's Fair Church historica| Places (does not include Pageant). 'o: World's Fair, Church historica] Places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. All New York tours include: Show g} Jones Beach, Rockettes, Top Broad. Way Show and q Special event ticket ir, ete, > BLACK HILLS 8 days _ August 16 to August 23: Black Hills Passion Play Tour. And the robin's first Call, At the Coming of dawn, Songbirds an Sing the anc ient refrain. Approveq Cord Handed ' Robert and David Co. F Encloseq $4.18 in Money Order One Year Old Christie Lund Coles Today | taught her How to blow the fluff From a seeded dandelion, Watching the dainty stuff Rise with the slightest breeze. | watched her unbelief At a bubble, rounded, lridescent, brief.! Saw her shape her lips, Blowing hard. After, | heard a small whistle, And her proud laughter. SPECIAL 10 DAY TOUR Fly to World's Fair for 3 days. Bus to Hill Cumorah Pageant, Sacred Grove, Kirtland Temple, Carthage Jail, Nauvoo, Liberty Jail, Winter Quarters Cemetery. ALL PERSONALLY ESCORTED "Let Us Help You Travel Worry Free'' Call or Write Wirdock FJravel, Inc. (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Salt Lake City 328-3161 The Secret Eleanor W. Schow | learned a little secret, and this it proved to be, A tiny seed of regret for one scarce known to me, | knew its power at first sight; This little seed was dynamite. | saw fear of deep trouble within her eyes, and doubt; The heart must burn as stubble when gossip flies about; And so within the heart of me | hid that seed where none could see. Then with apparent blindness | left it very still, And fed by loving kindness it throve and grew until One day it bloomed, and all could see Sweet fragrant flowers of love for me. OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS —An Anthology of Literature, Volume | (The Individual and Human Values ) by Bruce B. Clar k and Robert K. Thomas Here it is! THOMAS apx AnD ROBERT & pruct Deseret Book Com East South Te Salt Lake Ci Dear Sir: Enclosed pany mple, ty, Utah please find $2.95 for my copy of Out of the B —— ae est Books Volume | ea ———— Money Order Ch, Check}, I have an account, please charge [J ie a ZipattireState Residents of Utah add 3%% saleg |, 00—_ S tax. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah GQ New) ee Un Look for the delightfully fresh and feminine new cartons of U and |! Powdered and brown sugar... As well as fine granulated and superfine.. - Same high quality... Same pure natural food energy... - home-grown and home Produced. It's Pure Food Energy 'From Our Land" ~ ee |" Magazine=— * "Volume 51 Number 7 July 1964, - Lessons for October _. Elief Society Fora Cromdelild Dorothy J. Roberts You cannot hear the rhythmic hum Of the ancient spinning wheel that turned Nor see the smile shaping her face As the homemade tallow candles burned. But you see triumph on her brow, The head erect, the well-brushed hair, Features molded by her faith. Even the work-worn hands are fair. Fearlessly she faced the day, Trusting the one source of supply Given by a mightier hand For her own industry to ply. Keep this image in her mind; This is beauty faith has made Out of substance such as we, When the willing hand obeyed. Keep her memory in repair, Forever potent as a seed; Save some fragment of her strength For the moment of your need. The Cover: J State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah Transparency by Gordon Warner Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: J Spinning the Thread of Time Photograph by Leland Van Wagoner Art Layout: f§ Dick Scopes Illustrations: Jj Mary Scopes The April Magazine, like all the other issues, is a thing of beauty. | had to sit and ponder the cover picture before dipping inside, for there were the bright red hills of home——-Utah. The lovely cover of each Magazine holds fascination and invitation to me, and so | go inside for complete reading enjoyment. The first prize story ''Moment of Trust,' by Mary Ek Knowles (January 1964) was excellent. And in April | am happy to see the work of Evelyn Fjeldsted again with her short essay "Springtime Again.'' Her writings possess real music and beauty. Alice Gubler Sabin Yakima, Washington After reading Margaret Russell's article 'Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!' in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine, my heart was filled with joy when | thought about the number of sisters in the gospel | have gained since becoming a member of the Church. Being an only child, 1! Never knew the joy of having blood brothers and sisters. But since becoming a member of the Church, | have had that longing fulfilled. For eighteen months | was president of the Kanderau Branch Relief Society. Another sister and | used to travel twenty-two miles each way to attend our meetings. Recently we were made into a dependent branch and my husband is branch president. As yet we do not have an organized Relief Society, so you can guess how much | look forward to receiving my Magazine. Mary Sykes Muir Whakatane, New Zealand | enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful. Eileen Mecham Cleland Rawlins, Wyoming 482 We enjoyed so much the article "What Does Your Speech Reveal?" by Myrtle E. Henderson, in the March issue of the Magazine, and we think it would be a big help towards speech improvement if we could have this kind of material regularly. We surely enjoy the Magazine. Ruth Capp Vale, Oregon The Magazine came yesterday, and it is such an excellent collection of stories, poems, and articles that | want to thank you for myself and all the sisters who read it. The article ''The Family Goes Back to School" (by Elaine Reiser Alder, May 1964) seemed to have been written for me personally, as my husband and | are looking forward to going to Brigham Young University next fall. The poems and stories paid such a beautiful tribute to mothers that every mother should be privileged to read this issue. Sharon R. Hawley Norfolk, Virginia We become as one through the Relief Society Magazine. | have a son serving in New Zealand on a mission. A dear sister there who is a Relief Society president has been very kind to him. In correspondence with me, and telling about their bazaar, she referred me to the September issue of the Magazine and the Monument Park Stake displays. In turn, | called her attention to the July 1963 Magazine wherein the Mount Ogden Stake bazaar is featured. Again we become as one. Ethel T. Lewis Ogden, Utah I think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. | want especially to thank Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher messages. | often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings. Rayella Richardson Santa Barbara, California The Feelief Society Magazine EE VOLUME 51 JULY 1964 NUMBER 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 484 Victory Over Wilderness Alberta H. Christensen 490 Disciplining Children in the Latter-day Saint Home Nell Folkman 508 A Tribute to Relief Society Presidents Lois Tanner 509 The Young Go Visiting Teaching Ella K. Hundsman Fiction 494 Don't Leave Me 4Helen B. Gibbons 502 Momentous Decision Beatrice R. Parsons 523 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 6 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 482 From Near and Far 499 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 500 Editorial: The Intent of The Heart Marianne C. Sharp 529 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 560 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out Thoughts for a Summer Day, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 511; Diet As a Way of Life, by Margaret F. Maxwell, 512; How to Remodel a Fitted Suit, by Bonnie S. Hansen, 516; "Train Up a Child," by Dorothy Hicks, 517; Delilah Davis Pike — Her Hobbies Bring Happiness, 518; The Sego Lily — Flower of the Pioneers, by Celia Luce, 519; I'm Writing Five Books, by Janice Dixon, 520; Acceptance, by Irene T. Irving, 522; Growing Old, by Lizzie O. B. White, 522; Violets Are for Remembrance, by Carol Mattson, 528; Humble Values, by Alice R. Rich, 557. Lesson for Ocfober 5386 Theology — The Vision Roy W. Doxey 542 Visiting Teacher Message — "Leave Judgment Alone With Me," Christine H. Robinson 544 Work Meeting — Introduction Winnifred C. Jardine 546 Literature — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature Robert K. Thomas 551 Social Science — The Application of Divine Law to Life Ariel S. Ballif 555 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons Poetry 481 For a Grandchild — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts Our Pioneer Centenarians, by Bertha A. Kleinman, 488; Let Me Remember, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 489; Faith, by Catherine B. Bowles, 493; Night is My Friend, by Lael W. Hill, 498; Alchemy, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 507; Her Letter, by Evelyn Fjelsted, 510; Grandmother's Chair, by Carolle Denton, 517; Prayer, by Nellie B. Schmidt, 543; To My Dear Sisters in Relief Society, by Marion Mallorie, 556; Come and See, by Christie Lund Coles, 557; Potential, by Pearle M. Olsen, 558; Faith's Magic Wand, by Ida Elaine James, 560. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society L. OokINc westward from my window, I see a wide and beautiful valley. It is peopled and prosperous. Commerce and _ industry speak through structures of brick and steel, outlined against the sky. There are parks and municipal rose gardens. In full summer foliage are sycamore, oak, and the flowering hawthorne. Orchard fruit is maturing and the fields beyond are amber with: ripening wheat. And yet, a mere one hundred and seventeen years ago this valley floor was a barren waste. Only the gray sage and sand and mountains rimmed the inland sea. What brought these dormant acres into productivity? What wand of magic urged the green blade above the arid loam? Unity of effort wrought this miracle. Men and women whose faith was stronger than sorrow, than hardship, than self-denial, won this victory over wilderness. 484 "The world owes much to men and women who have felt that God had a work for them to do," writes Dr. J. Leonard Arrington. The Mormon pioneers believed that God had a work for them to do, a pattern to follow. Such belief was basic to their pioneering, underlying all early Mormon settlement of the West. It gave purpose and meaning to an incredible march over hundreds of miles of rough and roadless land: to the dream of establishing a commonwealth in a desert. Such dedication to conviction led thousands of converts in the Eastern United States to exchange the comforts of home and established living, for the uncertainties of pioneer life. It led thousands of converts in Europe to hazard an ocean voyage and life in a faraway and unfamiliar land. A deep and substantial faith that the Church leadership was an inspired leadership gave them additional courage, for the pioneer trail did not always end with arrival in the Salt Lake Valley. Many of those early pioneers were counseled by the Church to leave their so newly established homes in the mountain valleys, and to explore and settle other and even more forbidding regions. Almost beyond belief is the pioneering of the San Juan River Basin, and the crossing of the Colorado River through the perilous Hole in the Rock. Only the willing of spirit and the brave of heart would have attempted that pioneering assignment, and only the obedient, the willing and dedicated could have brought it to fulfillment. Tuts belief in the truthfulness of the gospel and in the divinely ordained mission of the Church fortified my own paternal grandmother in the early years of the Church, as she left home and friends in Blaenvon, Wales, to go to America. She would be traveling with five small sons but without her husband. My grandfather had emigrated months before in order to obtain employment and money to send for the family. The little boys were recovering from whooping cough when the "Dreadnought" left port, and the youngest child, dying en route, was buried in the Atlantic. Yet grandmother did not regret her decision, nor was her faith diminished by the nearly four-month journey by ox team across the plains. When we speak of pioneering, we often think only of the strong and vigorous men who cut a new path through the wild, unsettled frontier. But to establish the foundation for continuing family and community life, women were also needed and more than strength of sinew was required. 485 JULY 1964 What of the women in the Mormon pioneering experience? What role did they play? Whether by ox team or handcart, the women assumed their share of the burdens of the trail, often walking part or all of the way. My own grandmother walked about two-thirds of the distance across the plains, carrying her infant son (my father) in a Paisley shawl tied firmly around her waist, while helping the boys "drive the loose stock they were bringing with them." Once in the valley, the role of the women was of major importance. All facets of their natures were challenged by the many and stern realities of pioneering life. They were not only wives and the bearers of children, but they assisted materially in the economy of the struggling settlements. They carried out, collectively, many special assignments given them by President Brigham Young and immediately succeeding Church Presidents. All who are familiar with the fascinating story of Relief Society through the years, know of its cooperative efforts in promoting home industry that the communities might become as selfsustaining as possible. Sericulture, cooperative merchandising of articles made locally by the women, the gleaning and storing of wheat — all assigned projects — are evidence that pioneer Mormon women were considered a real factor in the temporal as well as the spiritual development of the Church. The various angles of the silk-culture venture, and the many ways by which that more profitable assignment of gathering and storing wheat was 486 accomplished, constitute some of the most interesting chapters in the history of Relief Society. But it is not these cooperative efforts, only, valuable as they were to community and _ the Church, that warm my heart and kindle my loyalty. I am thinking of them, today, in their more individual and intimate role of pioneer wife, pioneer mother, and pioneer neighbor. They possessed the ability to evaluate life experiences objectively, and to cut irrelevance away. Things of secondary importance needed to wait until primary needs were met. Food, shelter, and clothing were important for all—for a neighbor as well as for oneself. And thus a sharing, one with another, and a neighborly watchcare, were nourished in the community. I think of the woman who took a neighbor's baby, nursing it with her own child for many weeks, until the stricken mother was well enough again to care for her own child. I think of the dried fruit, the clothing, and the many loaves of bread willingly shared with neighbors who were in greater need. In spite of the wisdom and need to satisfy physical demands first, our pioneer women did not overlook the need for beauty. They could not. Inherent in women's nature is the desire to beautify home — surroundings. Moreover, those pioneer women were refined, cultured women. Many of them had come from well-established homes and were familiar with the refining influence of the arts. They brought bits of beauty with them from faraway places, carefully protected during the long trek—the Staffordshire vase from England, the little brass kettle from a Scottish highland home, the precious china set, and the jet-beaded cape from Boston. And they created beauty. Even in the log cabin and the early adobe houses, there were braided rugs adding interest and color to the hearth; there were the pieced quilts, attractively designed and finely stitched. Flowers grew from seeds brought all the way from "back home," and there were flower arrangements, made by skillful fingers from human hair, framed or protected under domes of glass. I think of the adaptability of those wise women. Changing what could be changed, but accepting the inevitable as such, without loss of faith, without resentment. There were lean years when harvests were meager. There were epidemics of sickness, demanding faith and courage. There were babies to bear in crowded and often isolated homes. I think of my own grandmother, a loved and dependable midwife. According to her biography, she was interested in nursing and medicine even as a young girl in England. Because of her keen interest, she was often allowed to observe the town physician render medical services, even to such operations as the amputation of a limb. It was as if she were being prepared for the important role she was to play years later, in the pioneer communities of Utah Valley. I envision her horse and buggy journeys through many years, and through all seasons and all hours of day or night, to assist in the birth of a child. I VICTORY OVER WILDERNESS think of the assurance her confident skill must have brought to the anxious household. I think of the pioneer mother's resourcefulness in creating what could not be had otherwise. She improvised, used every resource available, with nothing wasted, that her growing family might be neatly clothed. Curtailment can be a great motivator, stimulating creativity and eventually placing emphasis where it should be, upon the doing, rather than upon merely having. I recall hearing my mother relate many times, and with the light of satisfaction in her eyes, of making her own hats all through her teen years. She would glean the wheat straws from the fields. Then, braiding them into three, four, or even eight strands, would sew them into attractive hats. To the end of his long life, my father could not see any of his six daughters wear a widebrimmed summer hat, without referring to the attractive hats that mother used to make and wear. He would add_ nostalgically, "With drooping brim and flowers and a bow." I think of the pioneer wife concealing from her husband, for he already had burden enough to bear, her loneliness for family and friends back home, who had not been able to see the light of the gospel message. In these days of material abundance and _ uncertain values, I think of the great reserve of inner strength, unconsciously developed by such self-discipline. Victory over the wilderness was more than triumph over land and drought, it was also victory over the wilderness within oneself. Many of 487 those pioneer women must have learned, as all who would be happy must learn, soon or late, that happiness comes from within, and that it can be nourished by small and simple joys. Family solidarity is developed when children are taught, in early youth, to share in essential family projects. It can give them the feeling of being important and needed. I have heard mother tell of making tallow candles each fall for winter use; of cording, spinning and dyeing yarn; of the many pairs of socks she knit, even as a young girl, for her father and brothers. In spite of the need for strict frugality and in spite of much self-denial, pioneer life was not generally somber. It was challenging and vital and faith-promoting. Through thousands of stories cherished by descendants of that stalwart vanguard, come vivid pictures of those early days. There was the jolly quilting bee, the corn husking party, the basket-lunch social. There were children making gifts and Christmas tree ornaments from practically Our Pioneer "nothing." There was the indispensable town band, the singing in the parlor, the melodrama presented by 'all home talent," for the Church encouraged the development of cultural arts. There were the long winter evenings of listening to father read or of hearing grandmother or Aunt Martha tell, over again, how the gospel message first came to their door. No child could ever forget that. And then there was prayer — the family prayer, more precious than all to remember. It was a long prayer. Sometimes a child wondered if it would ever end. But it was impressive, sincere, and simply stated. It was a prayer of gratitude for the blessing of life, for a more abundant crop, or for rain, or that the neighbor boy had been restored to health, and for each other. I can hear my own father's mellow voice, reaching through the years with these always final words: "... And help us to remain faithful to the end." Family prayer — what a fitting prelude to sleep and to the challenge of another day! Centenarians Bertha A. Kleinman A Centenary hails you at your journey's ending, Where crystal waves caress a far-flung shore, When you embark beyond the world's contending, To share a haven-refuge evermore. Long have you trudged the endless furrows, tilling The stubborn soil for other hands to reap, Mingling your tears with gracious rain distilling, Prayerful for scanty fare and wearied sleep. Roses—my gardens teem with their abundance, Where feet of yours have trod the rugged space, Yours be the attar of their sky-born fragrance, That wafts like incense at the throne of grace. 488 g ae 'P. Pte tail ey ' | Bed wel eras Sr #: A mo; Joset Muench Let Me Remembe, Mabe} Jones Gabbott YS grow long » how Sweet her Song, i arefoot days, S Joyance in the h 800d from leaf rom early freshn fe) lingering twilight, sum 489 And they shall before the Lord (D&C 68: THIs is a tremendous responsibility that the Lord has given us: to teach our children to walk in paths of truth and light so they will be able to return to him. As influences outside the home increase, we recognize the need to make our teaching inside the First, he needs the ideas and inspiration in his mind so that he knows what Second, he seek to train have the 80spel of Jesus as our guide and Inspiration. We know that we want to teach our 490 also teach their children to Pray, and walk uprightly 28). We, too, need the skills — the skills of effective teaching — to into children. There is no absolutely right or wrong way for a particular family to rear its children. We are all individuals with our Own values and ways of acting. Our children, too, are individuals with their Own personality patterns. We cannot develop Specific rules which will guarantee results with all children, What we can do, however, is to develop guidelines which will enable us to think more intelligently about these problems and _ their solutions. From the generalities of gospel teachings, we can emphasize certain specific beliefs that have particular bearing on the way we teach our children. These can be used as a basic Philosophy upon which to base these guidelines. 1. The Gospel of Jesus Christ Is a Gospel of Love Psychologists tell us that the love a child feels is given to him in the first few months of his life has a great deal to do with his whole outlook on life. The child who feels loved and feels good about himself has the capacity to love and feel warm toward those around him. The unconditional love of parents for each child is the strong foundation upon which all other teachings rest. 2. Children Are Born With the Capacity to Grow and Develop Through Learning and Training Perhaps this is so self-evident that it might seem unnecessary to include it. However, this concept is an important part of our Heavenly Father's plan. If the child were not a dynamic, growing individual, he could not take part in this marvelous plan. It is important for parents to realize that the child is learning and developing every moment of his life. Regardless of what we do or do not do, the child continues to learn something. It is our responsibility to make sure that he is learning the right things. 3. Children, As Children of God, Are Essentially Good Christ taught that "Except ye... Become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven" (Mt. 18:3). In latterday revelation, the Lord also tells us: But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L. D. S. HOME Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me (D&C 29:46-47). To say that children are basically good does not mean that they do not misbehave. It does mean that misbehavior results from different understandable causes (which we will talk about later) rather than from an inherently bad nature. It is clear that a parent who looks upon the small child as a child of God will react differently to his misbehavior than will one who sees the child as bad. 4, Free Agency Is Basic to Man's Development One of the main purposes of man's mortal life is to afford him the opportunity to choose between good and evil. The responsibility of parents is to teach their children not only the difference between right and wrong, but also how to make the choice. The child first learns to be obedient to authority. He accepts right choices because he knows that someone who has authority over him (his parent, teacher, the policeman, or others) will approve his doing so, or punish him if he does not. However, there is no particular virtue in refraining from stealing an apple when the policeman is watching. It is only when we refrain when we know nobody will find out, that it becomes a right choice. With these four principles in mind, we need next to define the word discipline. Many parents equate it with punishment. However, Webster defines it as "training that develops self-control, 49} JULY 1964 character, or efficiency." Thus, it becomes a way of teaching rather than a way of punishment. Parents who use this definition of discipline in their philosophy of child training will react differently to problems which arise with their children than will parents who see discipline primarily as punishment. We can more easily teach children what is right if we try to understand causes of misbehavior. Why do children misbehave? There are many reasons. Many times a small child does things that are wrong simply because he doesn't know any better. He has not yet learned what is right. Discipline, in this case, would consist of teaching him the right way. Sometimes the child misbehaves because he has learned that he can get what he wants (and often what he wants is simply attention) by doing something he knows to be irritating or wrong. He prefers punishment to no attention at all. If we give the child sufficient attention and love when he is good, he will not have to resort to bad behavior to get it. Often out-of-bounds behavior results as a natural consequence of a child's curiosity and his exploratory activities. He finds an 'object useful for hammering, so he hammers (sometimes on the furniture). He discovers that crayons make lovely marks, so he makes these marks (and it doesn't matter to him where he does it). Here is where channeling behavior is so important. We do not want the child to feel that hammering or drawing' with crayons are in themselves unde- 492 sirable activities—only that there are certain ways we use these tools and certain ways that we do not. So we teach him the acceptable ways. There are many other causes of misbehavior: a child doesn't feel well, he had a bad day at school, or he is overtired. The point is, if we try to understand why a child misbehaves, we are in a better position to devise ways to teach him, not only to stop his misbehavior, but also what constitutes right behavior. Often what a child needs is someone who has the patience to show him how to do something right. Children learn slowly, and too often the busy parents assume that a child is being perverse or bad. Children learn faster by rewards than they do by punishments. We should capitalize on the actions we want repeated rather than emphasizing the behavior to be eliminated. This can be done by approving successful and cooperative behavior and by helping the child see where he can do better. Another method of teaching might be termed diversionary tactics. Under this category would come such things as supplying a pounding board when the child starts hammering the furniture; appropriate places to draw instead of the wall. But to make it work, parents have to make sure the diversion is as attractive as the forbidden object it replaces. Letting the child suffer the consequences of his own acts is often one of the best methods of discipline. If the child does not get his work done before the time of an outing, he stays home. If he picks a fight, he doesn't get too much sympathy over the resulting black eye. Of course, this method cannot be used when a child is in real danger. We would not let him run in front of a car just to teach him a lesson. Deprivation of privileges is another good way to teach. If a toy is not taken care of, it is put away and can't be played with for awhile. If a child cannot get along with his friend, he has to play by himself. Do not underestimate' the power of words in teaching. Explanations and reasoning are often effective with children old enough to understand. Let the child know what he has done wrong, but don't stop there. Go on to help him understand what would have been a better way to behave in those particular circumstances. If we are thoughtful about the teaching of our children, we can incorporate into our plans several ideas which will make it easier, and the administration of punishment more effective. 1. Let each child know that you respect him as an individual with rights. Take into account his individuality, his personality, his needs, his age, and his condition in deciding what rules must be followed, what punishments meted out. 2. Have as few rules as_ possible. As each child matures, encourage DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L. D. S. HOME him to help make the rules. Make sure demands are reasonable. Then be consistent in seeing that these are obeyed. 3. Decrease the forbidden and uninvestigated by replacing many "don'ts" with such ideas as: "You may do it over here." "Let me show you a safe way." "You may do it while I am with you." This makes it easier for the child to accept the fact that there are things which must remain forbidden. 4. Find opportunities, consistent with his maturity and experience, for the child to make his own decisions. Give him guidance, help him see vari- - ous consequences, and then let the choice be his. 5. "Let the punishment fit the crime." Make sure the child sees the relationship between the punishment and what he has done wrong. Punishment, when necessary, should be promptly and justly administered. Moderate punishment is usually more effective than that which is overly severe. 6. Give punishment in love. Never threaten to withhold love as a punishment. Differentiate between disapproval of the act and disapproval of the child. '"Reproving betimes with sharpness... And then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reprovel" (D&C 121:43). If we parents can develop thoughtful attitudes and loving and prayerful hearts, we can become equal to this challenge which our Father in heaven has given us. Faith Catherine B. Bowles There is recompense on the path of life Though thorny the road. There will always be A bright colored rainbow to light the sky Over trials, to smooth the path to eternity. 493 Lucretia filled a steaming bowl with cornmeal mush for Jim, taking care not to spill on her bright rag carpet. The new cabin had a sweet smell about it, a neatness and warmth, but there was no pleasure in the pretty room for her this morning. She went and stood unseeingly at the tiny window. "Aren't you going to eat, Crishy?" Jim's face was clouded but his voice tender. "You need it, for the baby's sake as well as you own." She could not even look at him. Her eyes were red from sleeplessness and frustrated weeping. "T couldn't swallow a bite." They had talked half the night. Now there was nothing left to say. Jim ate his mush and milk in silence while Lucretia nervously busied herself about the room, smoothing the fresh straw 494 Helen B. Gibbons mattress on their bed, pulling up the clean quilts. With the dipper from the bucket, she watered the geranium on the window-ledge. Half her mind kept silently insisting, I won't go! I can't go! But the other half yearned for the sweet safety of her husband's approval. Without turning to look, she could see his square bronzed face, and_ his light, bright hair. Even in homespun work clothes he looked magnificent. She had often reflected that this handsome outer form was but the mirror image of his powerful inner character. She loved him so much that an estrangement now was pure agony. "Surely we won't leave Jamie," she pleaded softly at last. ""Must we so soon forget our promise?" Jim frowned, but he kissed her before he spoke. "Don't Crishy. Don't torture yourself. We have been called on a mission. Everything will right, the Way it's into an old, Warm Coat, and Started rolle -alon canyon breezes he first glint o sunlight flashed Over the hj » 4nd in. Its gleam the Seeing it, she ached anew, and an involuntary sob Slipped Past her throat. They had laid Jamie there go y OY too young, too wonderfy] to go so soon, Jj Cretia ha loyJAMES PHILLIp CURRIE 1850-1864 €ep yoy With us, Now Lucretia climbed the hil] again and knelt beside her son's resting place. Ing oy d over akes jt easier, T t's not Iways tru aying away was not €asier, J ad been hard to See little Clara placed Into a make. Shift Coffin a buried } any people grew every day an- € was planted beside the Toad. The com him a lot, "Why did we have to leave Clara there alone?" h Would ask Some Ights he Woke y 495 JULY 1964 "Don't leave me! Please don't ever leave me!"' On THE chilly hillside Lucretia smoothed the dirt over the little mound that was Jamie. She could so vividly remember every detail of his bouncing, vibrant self. He had been wild with excitement as the new cabin rose to completion. He worked as hard as any man to help his father with the construction. Lucretia shivered a little, but smiled, remembering Jamie on this plot of earth he loved so passionately — the big, old cottonwood trees, the fertile fields, the secret yields of berries along the banks of the singing, ice-cold creek. "It's our canyon, and our valley, and we will live happily ever after," he gaily said. No one dreamed that he would have to live his whole life out in fourteen years. At least, he savored every minute, enjoying life with a contagious zest. When Jamie fell into his final sleep, many lights went out in Lucretia's heart. "T must get to work," she scolded herself aloud, starting down the well-worn trail to the cabin. "I must not sit here thinking." She walked carefully because of the baby. She walked, but she wanted to run to get away from the memory of Jamie's nightmare. It hurt to remember his frantic pleas. She did not like to remember, but she could not forget. The fever struck and Jamie grew delirious. Then the old fears returned and multiplied. "Don't leave me behind! Please don't leave me!" It became, in 496 his delirium, almost a_ panicstricken scream. The morning sun now flooded the valley, and Lucretia caught her breath at the lovely view which lay before her. This was home to her—a real home at last. She had put her roots down deeply here in this green - and - gold landscape. Here, with their own hands, they had built their cabin beneath the shady trees. Here was the good soil that filled their winter stores. Here were dear friends as neighbors. Why can't we stay? Why do they have to call us away? With a kind of fury, she attacked her work, as if to quiet her unhappy thoughts. Threshing out dry beans for winter storage, Lucretia pounded the pods almost too vigorously. At the scrubbing board, she wore clothes thin. Why? Why? Yet even as she questioned, her conscience smote her. She and Jim had never before refused a call. Lucretia hated herself for her feelings, but most of all she hated the call itself. THey had been asked to move to the Muddy River to help establish some settlements there. The Church needed cotton, and a safe way-station between California and St. George. Jim and Lucretia, young and strong, were called to the Muddy Mission. The Muddy! Even the name sounded dreadful, but it was worse when Lucretia talked to her cousin who had _ recently come north on a visit from St. George. Her cousin said that the country was hot and dry, with no shelter or shade from the sun. It was bad enough at St. George with flies and filth and hunger, everyone ill from chills and fever. Her cousin said things were even worse toward Las Vegas Spring where the Muddy River lay. The land was tortured and rough, and quicksand lay on river beds. Worst of all, there were Indians on the Muddy, primitive, dangerous marauders. To go to such a place and begin again! To abandon this lovely cabin! To bear a child in the wilderness where chills and fever crept into the settlements on the dread night air! To break a promise and leave Jamie behind! There was no solution. Lucretia worked in gloom, feeling quite miserable. She was outside in the afternoon sun when Sister Hancock hobbled up the road carrying her ancient violin case. Lucretia had always loved the violin. Long years ago in her prosperous home in the East she had played such an instrument. Her love for music had been a bond between the two women—Sister Hancock, aged, crippled, but ever cheerful, and the younger Lucretia. Sister Hancock's violin was a fine instrument, and her most valuable possession, for she was very poor. "Lucretia," she cried, embracing her young friend, "I'm proud to hear that you've been called on a mission." Lucretia dared not answer, not knowing what to say. It did not matter. Sister Hancock preferred to do the talking most of the time anyway. "T envy you and Jim. You're young and you can really do things. Now me, I'm no good at all any more." "Oh, Sister Hancock, you always do good." DON'T LEAVE ME "No. I guess my time is almost up. That's why I came over here today. The happiest days I ever spent were working to serve the Lord. I just kept wishing that I could do something for the Muddy Mission, too, and in the night I thought of it." "You did?" "It's my dear old violin. I'd consider it a favor if you'd take it and make music for the saints on the mission. It would be almost like part of me going to. Serve the Church. I won't need it much longer anyway. Take it, dearie. Take it, with my blessing." Lucretia hesitated, but Sister Hancock was firm. She carried the musical instrument inside and gently laid it upon the table. "But it's all you have — you will need it for yourself." "Rheumatism's been getting worse. I'll never last the winter out, and I'm kind of glad. It will be a relief to discard this old aching body, and go where they say you will be forever young. Perhaps there will be music there for me to make." It was difficult to speak, and Lucretia struggled to keep her voice steady. "Thank you, dear Sister Hancock. Ill always treasure it." "Just you play it well for other folks and I'll be content." The aged visitor stayed awhile. She dozed a bit and talked a lot. Lucretia needed merely to smile and nod and listen to her lonely neighbor's reminiscences. She was glad, for her heart was in turmoil. Strange how cheerfully Sister Hancock could speak of discarding her old, aching body. Poor, dear little soul. 497 JULY 1964 ir GREW late and her visitor departed. Lucretia finished her work and built up the fire to fix supper for Jim. Then she wandered outside to watch for his wagon. Sitting on the bench beside the cabin wall, she huddled in her shawl to look and to think. Up on the hill, the granite headstone was almost indistinguishable in its_ setting. It blended with the background until she had difficulty determining which of the many stones was Jamie's. Just before the sun set, it cast a lovely, soft glow over the hillside for a moment. In the unreal-looking light, everything seemed different. Sitting there -waiting, thinking, half-praying, Lucretia experienced a_ strange feeling. The lovely, soft glow engulfed her heart with a kind of peacefulness. She felt better than she had in many days, for suddenly, everything looked different to her. Jamie! The hill does not hold Jamie at all. He's gone on ahead to the better place Sister Hancock anticipates, where there is sweet music for her to play. Why didn't I think of it before? Why couldn't I see it? Wagon wheels crunched over the rocks, and in the twilight Lucretia ran to meet her tired husband with his load of wood. He 'reined in and climbed down with open arms. "Oh, Jim, forgive my doubts," she cried. "Of course we will accept our call. I want to go to the Muddy with you. We have our work to do." "TI knew you would, Crishy. I knew it all the time." He smoothed her soft curls with roughened fingertips. "We won't be leaving Jamie," Lucretia explained—as much to herself as to Jim. "We'll just be getting nearer to where he is now." Night Is My Friend Lael W. Hill Night and | are best of friends. | go with him: in taughter; He stars the way my dream ascends To heaven's highest rafter. | tell him ail | dare not say, He shares my tree of sorrow; Not anyone knows me today As he will by tomorrow. Night and | are proven friends. My love is in his keeping, And when my heart must break, he lends His dark arms for my weeping. 498 Ramona W. Cannon MRS. CORA STAVIG, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, wife of Dr. L. M. Stavig, President of Augustana College, was chosen American Mother of the Year, during the five day ceremonies in New York City in May. Mother of four sons, all professional men successful in their chosen fields, Mrs. Stavig, was cited for her contributions to international understanding through ''people to people" diplomacy, and for her leadership in marriage counseling and adult education. MRS. LURENE ELDREDGE WARNICK, Pleasant Grove, Utah, wife of Merrill Warnick, former president of the National Dairy Council and former president of Timpanogos Stake, represented Utah. She is the mother of eight outstanding children, is a leader in educational and cultural affairs in her community, and has long been prominent in Relief Society work. MRS. EMMA LAVERA WILLIAMS CALVERT, Caliente, Nevada, mother of seven children, and President of Caliente Ward Relief Society, attended the meetings as the Nevada Mother. Widowed when her children were young, she educated her family through her own efforts, and sent four of them on missions, and at the same time played an active role in the educational and civic affairs of her community. MRS. JERRIE MOCK became the first woman to fly solo around the world when she set down her single-engine Cessna 108 plane, ''Spirit of Columbus,"' at Port Columbus, Ohio, April 17, 1964. The thirty-eight-year-old housewife was greeted by her husband, Russell Mock, and their three children. The aviatrix, also the first woman to fly the Pacific Ocean solo, logged about 200 hours of flying time, via Bermuda, the Azores, Casablanca, Tripoli, Cairo, Dhahran, Pakistan, India, Thailand, the Philippines, Guam, Wake, and Honolulu — more than 22,858 miles. Joan Merriam Smith became the second aviatrix to circle the globe. She landed her Piper Apache at Oakland Airport May 13th. MRS. RUTH G. VAN CLEVE, a career government attorney, was sworn in on April 16, 1964, as director of the Office of Territories, the first woman to fill such an important post in the United States Department of the Interior. With the Department since 1950, she has given outstanding service as assistant interior solicitor in the Division of Territories, Wildlife, and Parks. DAME SYBIL THORNDYKE, England's beloved older actress, performed in the stellar role in ''Measure for Measure," in London, June 15, 1963, at the closing performance of the fabled ''Old Vic' theater—home of Shakespearean drama for many generations. A picture of Dame Sybil, surrounded by the cast as she made the farewell speech following the final curtain, was shown in various countries at exhibitions honoring the four hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's birth (April 23, 1564). 499 EDITORIAL From childhood one is cautioned when angry to count ten before speaking, to learn to control one's temper; that '"'pretty is as pretty does.'' One hears in Sunday School of the choosing of King Saul's successor—David—and is told how, one after another, the handsome sons of Jesse were brought before Samuel, but the one to be chosen was none of them. The chosen one was a mere youth, and the Lord admonished Samuel, '"'Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart'' (| Samuel 16:7). As the years of one's life lengthen, one draws inevitably closer to the end of this earth life and a return to the realms of the eternal. Which of the kingdoms has one prepared herself through earth life to inherit—the celestial, terrestrial, or telestial, or even a kingdom without glory? The trite words of youth, ''pretty is as pretty does,'' take on real! Significance with reference to cleansing the soul of ugly, dark evils and lightening the sou! Toward perfection. One woman said, ''! Am not afraid of being judged by my actions; I'm afraid of being judged by my thoughts.'' This feeling may be shared by the many. What is the difference —- or is there one between a sister who pays her tithing with joy in her heart at the opportunity of returning to her Father one-tenth of the means he has bestowed upon her, and the sister who pays grudgingly? One sister who nurses another with gladness in a spirit of love; and a second sister who nurses another, seemingly cheerful but inwardly unhappy, and doing it from a sense of duty alone? A sister who speaks heartfelt, friendly words to an VOLUME 51 JULY 1964 NUMBER 7 ®@ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer acquaintance; and a sister who speaks friendly words whlie silently criticising and even disliking the one she is addressing. It may well give one cause to ponder that the Lord knows the intent of the heart. No matter how loving, understanding, and forgiving Heavenly Father may be, what can he do about a proud heart, a contemptuous or disdainful spirit? Each individual woman has her free agency and, if a change of heart is to occur,. The miracle must be wrought by the possessor of the heart. This is a life of temptations and trials and tribulations. The Heavenly Father's plan makes the individual subject to them; but in a time of dire distress it is up to each woman, whether she possesses the spirit of Christ '"'thy will not mine be done," or whether she harbors the spirit of rebellion and resentment and demands, ''What have | done, why should this happen to me?'' What had Christ done but give his all of suffering in love that every one might live? If repentance will overcome the spirit of hypocrisy, haughtiness, pride, and criticism, it will come through accepting the will of the Lord, and studying and pondering on the life of Christ which will flood the soul with love for him. As one's love for Christ increases, so does one's love for fellow man. It is inevitable. This love makes strong the spirit of charity. Christ's example shines far ahead, but it may become the wellspring of one's own actions, day by day, hour by hour, minute by minute, crowding out the evil intent of the heart. The way is not easy, but the end will be glorious to one whose 'charity never faileth."' —M. C. S Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring EIna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill! Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Miomentous Decision Beatrice R. Parsons WHen she woke that morning, Louise knew that something specially nice was going to happen. Of course! The Miltone reunion! Oh, she must hurry. Very soon the kitchen would be buzzing with activity. She dressed quickly, brushing her graying hair with deft strokes so that it framed her face in a slightly old-fashioned hair-do. She had worn it almost the same way when she and Hal were married. Now Hal Avery was gone. After thirty-eight years, she didn't want to change it, since he had liked it that way. She hurried downstairs, her eyes, behind the shining lenses of her glasses, as bright blue as her neat house dress. But standing at the doorway of her spotless kitchen, she paused to smile at herself. 502 "What's your rush?" she asked, and her voice made a murmur of sound in the silent house. "There isn't anything you can do to get ready for the Reunion. Soon your daughters will be here to take over. And your daughters-in-law. They will look after even the tiniest details of the picnic at the park." Slowly, she made herself a slice of toast. The milk from the refrigerator was cool and sweet. There was strawberry jam. But she wasn't really hungry. Breakfast was always a lonely time without Hal. She sat quietly, staring out of the window, not quite knowing the taste of her food. The kitchen windows opened on to an expanse of green lawn. Her son George insisted on paying old Max Net- tleton for Mowing, clipping, and pain that Pushed at her heart Was. 1 ull knife Pruning. Ked in Most of like a dul the other yards, too, since all of "T've 80t to be Sure," she told her neighbors were elderly, some George quietly, 7 Was really the f them alone most mom tous dq cision she had "ir houses been built ever had to Only Hal] names NY of her neighbors Mind an kept ying to an Were OWs, too Her Sisters SWer it. S it th Tose 8arden? Lived nearby. Almost —_ thou e had been gh h She Shivereq a little in Spite of fone two years — she Could see the brilliant Morning Sun flood. Hal's tall form bending Over his Ing the kitchen, The day was here Toses, Byt €ach of her children had — well, almost the day... When much better rose 8ardens than She must Make up her Mind to this, And all of them had Promis, €ave all th Ised she Could ten their roses € had bee trying to make he SO desired wasn't th P her mind for m ths, ever since Tose garden! €orge, her eldest Son, had aqOW the house ell, it Was ters and two Sons, had been talk. Arge Tooms, and a Winding Stairing things Over. His voice had Case. The young cleaning woman €en gentle d loving as he exwho did ext. Ork in all the housPlained that all her children wantaroun alf-circle had ed wha was best for h r. Pointed Smiling] "N body "W, hink the Work here is as a dini room nowaday » Mrs. °° much for you, darling. E ve a great, big dining know I] Y you've een table pe! Ard you must have since |. Dad... - Went." He had Worked when all your family Were touched her hand, tears Close to home I'll bet you set a g00d ther's, "You know it Isn't as if Louise had nodded. "] always You were 80ing to a home! There loved to Cook. [| never felt the are five homes Waiting to WelWork was too hard. Tt was m l e. Insi JULY 1964 daughters to live you won't have to cook unless you want to." Louise paled. "I'd be sure to push the wrong button in those total-gadget kitchens of theirs, and end up frying the laundry and washing the pancakes." The young woman had giggled, and said flatly, '""Well, one thing, you'll never miss this kitchen." So it wasn't the kitchen. Or the dining room. Or the upstairs bedrooms that must be vacuumed and dusted every week in spite of the fact that nobody slept in them. The house was just too big for just one person. So why couldn't she make up her mind..™ She was called from her reverie by the sound of cars driving up to the house. 'Goodness,' she said, putting her uneaten breakfast away, "'they're already here!" She hurried to the door to be kissed, hugged, smiled over, and loved by her children and grandchildren. THEN, as her daughters and daughters-in-law bustled about the kitchen, she picked up the invitation to the Miltone Reunion and read it over again. It was very nice, with small pen-and-ink drawings of the oxen and covered wagon that had carried the first Miltone into the valley. Her name was first on the list, because she was the oldest. Then there were her sisters, Constance, Ruth, and Madge. Her children were listcd with their husbands and wives — Leah, Melinda, Helen, George, and Stanley. There were the children, and all the cousins, nephews and nieces. So many of them, Louise had decided, that she had insisted on 504 sharing the reunion with several of her old friends from the neighborhood. "It's nice to share," she had told her daughters when they questioned her idea. "'Some of the older ladies don't get out much. You have plenty of room in your cars." Because they were nice, generous people, they hadn't objected. Leah had laughed and said, "I can't see what difference a dozen more can possibly make. We'll only need a gallon of salad and a bushel of potato chips, to say nothing of a few hundred sandwiches." Louise slipped the invitation into a drawer, ready for her scrapbook and went to help with the sandwiches. The first one was lifted gently from her hand. Helen smiled at her. "There's plenty of help, darling," she said reprovingly. "As the matriarch of the Miltone family, this is your big day. We can't let you get worn out even before we get to the park." As though putting tuna-salad sandwiches into little waxed bags could wear her out! Standing there, her hands listless at her sides, she considered that word matriarch. It did make her feel old! She thought whimsically, let's face it, Louise Miltone Avery, you are a Senior Citizen, age sixty-seven. She giggled a little, remembering something George had said, when, at sixteen, he had brought home his first secondhand car. How proud he had been! How angry when everyone laughed. His brown eyes had shot sparks. "There's a lot of life in that old chassis even yet!" Well, she wasn't useless, yet. She reached for a salad bowl. Mellie took it gently from her hands. "T'll do that, darling. Just don't bother with a thing." She kissed her lightly on the cheek. "Just sit down and rest." Rest, when her hands were just itching to help. Rest when her body was straining to contribute. Like George's old car, she wasn't quite through. Sue opened the cupboard and got out a dish. Her daughter-inlaw took it from her, and patted her arm tenderly. "Do sit down, Mother Avery. You've earned a rest." Louise hoped her smile didn't look grim. Maybe she had earned a rest, but she didn't want it. "T'll get the silver ready," she said, and opened the drawer. Leah was beside her. 'Mother, let me do that."' She took the silver carefully away, and pushed a lock of graying hair from her mother's forehead. Her voice was soft, "Oh, darling, we'll be so happy to have you come live with us." Helen said urgently, 'She's coming to us. Glen and I have a room in the basement, and her very own bath." Melinda said hastily, 'Our house isn't as grand as yours or Leah's, but we have a room." George, retrieving a huge basket from the table, said firmly, "Mother is going to live with us." For a moment — just as she had when they were children — Louise detected the beginning of a sharp quarrel. Stanley, who had always been the peacemaker, settled the argument quietly. "You're coming to all of us, darling. A few months or weeks MOMENTOUS DECISION at a time, just as you like. That way, you'll be free to do whatever you like, visit your friends, go on trips." There was true love and devotion in all the faces before her. Her happiness was uppermost in all their minds and hearts. George smiled and gathered up his basket. '"Let's get this show on the road. Or all the relatives and friends will be at the park before we get there." Such a rush and bustle fol-. Lowed. There were children to be collected, cars to be packed. Leah stayed behind to see that everything was shipshape. Then she locked the door. Louise, being helped into one of the cars, remembered, enviously, that once she had been the last out of the house. Why, once she had been convinced that a Miltone reunion could not go on without her! "Now," she told herself dubiously, "I do believe that it goes on in spite of me!" She sniffed a little at her small, unfunny joke, and one of the children hurried to roll up the window so "Gramma" wouldn't feel a draft. THE reunion was everything they had hoped and planned. The day was fresh and clear. The sky was like bluish whipped cream where tiny clouds crossed it. The lawns were green and lush on which the children played. The softly rustling leaves of the huge elms pooled the chairs, where the older ones sat, with charcoal shadows. The long tables, with their gay paper cloths and_ napkins, groaned with the weight of goodies. The paper plates were piled 505 JULY 1964 high for children alike. When Louise tried to help, Leah ordered tenderly, "T'll wait on you, darling. Sit with your sisters and friends. [']] bring you each a plate." They were heaped with fried chicken, salad, chips, and sandwiches. Constance, wiping her lips with her napkin, confessed, "I always make a piggy of myself over Mellie's fried chicken. She's almost as good a cook as you were, Louise. I remember all those wonderful dinners we had at your house." Ruth sighed. "I never liked cooking, although I did manage to feed four healthy children and a husband. Even my cooking tasted good when there was a family to eat it." "When I fix myself something to eat, now that Fred is gone," said Madge, "it's never as good as I expect. It's no fun, eating alone." She sighed. "Sometimes, just to get a really good meal, I g0 downtown to a restaurant." Mellie, bringing dishes of ice cream and cake, added lightly, "When Mother comes to live with us, there won't be many restaurants in her life. ['ve got a husband who thinks home cooking is the biggest thing in his life. My, how that man does enjoy a family dinner." She rushed away, pride in the swing of her body, and Louise was suddenly aware that her sisters and friends were studying her quietly. "So, you've made up your mind," said Constance briefly. "Honestly, I do believe you're right. Everyone of us here knows how dull and lonely it can be, livand grownups 506 ing alone. No wonder we stuff ourselves on fried chicken when there's Company to eat it with." Company to eat it with! Louise told herself that she was silly to lie awake now that the reunion was over and everyone was home in bed, and to keep Saying to herself: Company to eat it with. Goodness, that phrase didn't even make good grammar. But it did make sense. Meals were better when a person had someone to eat with. Well, after tomorrow — after she had made a call to George to tell him that he could go ahead with his plans for listing the house — Louise Miltone Avery would have a lot of company to eat with. Every meal would be a pleasure. But! Gracious! She found herself sitting up in bed, reviewing all the preparations for the reunion. Why, the girls hadn't allowed her to do a thing! And when she lived in their homes, they'd be more insistent than ever that she wouldn't get tired, wouldn't do a thing to help. They would decree in their devoted way, that she be put upon a shelf marked not needed any more, and her hands, as well as her mind and body, would deteriorate into uselessness, "But if not! If not...." She scarcely dared to let such a thought enter her mind. If she had something to do — something really worthwhile. Something she could contribute.. A The next moming as_ she dressed, those night-thoughts kept tugging at her mind. They followed her as she made her toast, got out the carton of milk. As she sat down before the paper napkin she had put at her place, she felt a little guilty, knowing that Hal didn't like her to skimp on breakfast. Well, she wasn't hungry, perhaps because of the picnic yesterday. She put the toast crumbs out to the birds, the milk carton back in the refrigerator. A thought crept persistently into her consciousness — It's no fun to eat alone. Sue had a wishful idea. Li there were only some way for old friends and sisters to get together over lunch.... She went to the dining room door and glared at the big table. Why, that awful, inanimate piece of furniture seemed to be coaxing for a white linen cloth, rosesprigged china, fine silver. She could almost hear her girls saying reprovingly, "But, Mother! All that work. Getting lunch for other people. You mustn't slave over a hot stove...." She broke off, laughing loudly and clearly. Oh, that silly cliche! Since when has a stove like mine been hot — except under the pots! Besides, she had always loved to cook. She was sure their next objection would be expenses for groceries. Well, she thought about that. MOMENTOUS DECISION Everyone could contribute to the food, or eat at a nominal expense. "Tf it doesn't work," she told herself brightly, 'no harm will be done. At least I'll give it a try. I'm sure my sisters will love it." So would her neighbors. And each could take a turn if she wished! Her hand went out to phone George. She drew it hastily back. George was inclined to be severe. Stan was the one she would call. He could tell the others. "Tt isn't that I'm not grateful - to think you all want me, son. Tm sure you'll understand, and so will the others when they think about it. Just tell them I feel gay and happy and excited about having this plan. Someday I may accept your invitations." She knew by Stan's voice that he was surprised, a little shocked, and even worried. But when he put up the phone she was sure he understood. And, peacemaker that he was, he would pass his own understanding on to the others. Her finger shook a little as she dialed Constance. As the phone buzzed while she waited, Louise knew a vast delight. Loneliness was flying away. Once more she had something to contribute to the world that had been bent on passing her by. Alchemy Vesta N. Fairbairn The spirit More easily Than flesh is bruised and hurt, And only touch of love can heal © The wound. 507 508 Lois Tanner FRELIEF Society Presidents come in assorted sizes and shapes. Bishops revere them, stake presidents honor them—husbands put up with them. One of the prime requisites for her job is a strong back and a pair of willing hands. She is endlessly toting things like turkeys, boxes—always full—chairs, dishes, trees, casseroles—and occasionally—babies. The trunk of her car rotates between looking like the inside of a supermarket, a moving van, a china closet, a junk collector, and a rag bag. Some Relief Society presidents are weil-organized, some are half-organized, and some just ''play it by ear."" All end up with approximately the same results. Relief Society presidents probably appreciate their families more than any other women on earth—because their moments are so precious. Each day is a challenge, to accomplish the impossible and still be home in time to meet that 2:45 school bus. All Relief Society presidents are most comfortable on their knees. And few there are who are not on very intimate terms with their Heavenly Father. Discouragement is her greatest enemy. Faith, her best friend. She is qualified for nothing in particular and everything in general. She is part business executive, janitor, teacher, psychologist, speech maker, counselor, cook, and defender. Her chief feminine virtues must be compassion, wisdom, enthusiasm, and courage. Relief Society presidents are a peculiar breed of womanhood. To them, a confidence is a sacred trust, a problem, something that can be overcome. No Relief Society president ever concerns herself with the prestige of her position, she is much too busy. Once in a while, a Relief Society president gets tired, but she never allows it to show. To do so is fatal. Rather, she quietly finds a day off and spends it praying for strength. Her rewards are treasures unperceived by others. These she stores in the very depths of her soul to draw out in quiet moments and enjoy. A sister's humble testimony, a project well done, a witness of renewed faith, a few grateful tears, the touch of a dear hand, the love she has earned from her faithful sisters. . The Young Go Visiting Teaching Ella K. Hundsman On a beautiful autumn day in 1963, two Relief Society visiting teachers knocked on the door at the home of Brother and Sister Townsend Sampson in Glenwood Ward, Sevier Stake, Utah. Sister Sampson opened the door and welcomed the teachers with a special greeting, because the Sampsons were not able to get out much. However, this visit was indeed a surprise. The visiting teachers were Wayne Oldroyd, three years old, son of Mr. And Parsons, four years old, daughter ¥77R0, Olgoy4 ond aren ee eet tag ey of Mr. And Mrs. M. L. Parsons. The teachers seemed to be well prepared. They had brought Relief Society Magazines with them, and the message was given in much detail, and with enthusiasm, although Brother Sampson remarked later that he could not recall exactly what it was about. However, both Brother and Sister Sampson knew that the lesson was good, since it came out of The Relief Society Magazine. The children asked for a pencil and wrote a message on some paper which they had brought with them. Brother Sampson said it was written in shorthand. Both children attend Relief Society meetings with their mothers and enjoy it very much. 509 Mrs. Jerold Oldroyd; and Brenda ———_ 510 the Home Her Letter Evelyn Fjeldsted The rose you coaxed and trained to grow, Is rambling all along the fence; The pansy plants from sheltered grounds Are radiant with shy eloquence. The perennial poppy late last fall, Sent the winds to carry seed, And tiny plants are thriving now, Where only rain could meet their need. The leaves have cast their summer show, With scintillating lights and shade. And honeysuckle trumpets blow perfume, Down where the garden rocks were laid. When evening shadows softly fall, Sleepy songbirds seem to say, The things that 1 would write to you — "Come home again — this time to stay."; Caroline Eyring Miner The Day's Demands "T° man ever sank under the burden of the day. It is when tomorrow's burden is added to the burden of today that the weight is more than a man can bear" These are the words of George MacDonald. I often marvelled at the ease with which my mother could fall asleep. As soon as her head touched the pillow she was "dead to the world." You might be talking to her one minute and then you'd be startled to find her sound asleep the next. It was a wonderful quality, for she was tremendously vigorous, never idle a moment she was awake, and she needed the refreshment of profound sleep. I think it was more than that as I contemplate it now. She was at peace with the world and with herself. During her waking hours she did her best at helping lift. The world's burdens, and she knew she would do the same on the morrow. She took care of the day's demands, and then laid her burden down as she did her body at the close of day. She did not need to lie awake counting the undone tasks of an idle day, nor the accumulated problems of many days past or to come. "Cast Thy Bread" ol thy bread upon the water, and after many days it shall return to you multiplied many fold. Such is the general message of a bit of scripture. I can think of many examples of this. When I was a little girl, mother would send me to my aunt's for a start of live yeast when her own had died out. Then, in due course, mother's yeast was the mother lode for many neighborly starts. When her own yeast gave out, she borrowed from one who had borrowed a start from her. Much earlier than this, a similar cycle went on with fire. You lighted another's fire only to find that that person eventually returned the favor to you, when your flaming torch turned to gray ashes. Many times I have given geranium starts, OT chrysanthemum starts to my neighbors, and in a few seasons have found my bread coming back to me many fold when my starts were gone, and their starts supplied my garden. Too Great Expectations gia people are perpetually disappointed in the actions of their fellow men. They expect more of them than they get, or than it is possible for them to do. Parents are sometimes unrealistic in their expectations of their children's accomplishments. They seem to expect adult accomplishments from them, as indicated by the fact that they exhort them to "be like daddy," or "be a little lady," or "that's a little man," or "that's a little lady." Instead of just "great expectations," we sometimes expect too great expectations. It is wise to be realistic and not expect too much from others — adults or children. "Remember they aren't much better than you are," I heard it quipped recently. Greater harmony may be expected in our homes with more tolerance and with realistic expectations. To expect too little of children is unwise, of course. To do things for them because they cannot meet expected adult standards is crippling. How else can they learn, except by doing and by doing at their own level? Expectations, with just a little reach for accomplishment, are the ideal. If Judy can do a satisfactory job of washing the silverware, she may be expected to advance to plates and cups, and if Ray can keep his bed made, he can be expected to vacuum his room and keep it straightened up. Fxpectations, but not unrealistic or too great expectations, are the desirable goal. 511 as a way Of life Margaret F. Maxwell Ir seems in the past few years you can hardly open the pages of a favorite magazine or newspaper without being bombarded with some new, magical, and presumably painless way to slim down overnight from size 18% to a trim 12. You are cajoled by glamorous "before" and "after" pictures, and frightened by terrifying statistics. And so, resolutely, you embark on the banana and skim milk, the prune and cottage cheese, or the high-fat, lowcalorie diet. You count calories grimly for a few painful days or wecks, lose a few pounds and then weaken — and presto! You are night back where you were to start with. "Oh, well," you sigh. "Being fat runs in the family." Or, better still, "I eat absolutely nothing! And still I put on weight." Is this the story of your life? If vou have been using these excuses 512 for allowing those extra pounds to creep up on you, ever so gradually, over the years, it's time you took a good look at yourself in the mirror, and then decided once and for all to do something about it — and permanently. Being overweight is simply a matter of taking into your body more food than it requires. Unneeded food is stored by your body as fat. And, on the other hand, if you eat less than your body requires, you are bound to lose weight. It is as simple as that. You need not take a calorie list to meals with you, or meticulously put down the calorie count of every bite you put into your mouth. Learn a few basic principles of right living, plus a few easy "tricks of the trade," and you're on your way to vibrant health and a new, slim figure. First of all, don't make dieting so unpleasant that it becomes a regime to which you cannot stick. Your new diet pattern must become a way of lifc, a new set of habits that you will maintain permanently, not just for a ten weeks' crash program, after which vou heave a sigh of relief and go back to your old cating habits (and, incidentally, your old weight). So if you don't already know them, start by getting acquainted with the four basic food groups: milk, meat and eggs, vegetables and saree and bread and cereals. Foods chosen from each of these groups should be included in your new diet program each day, both to maintain that glow of health that makes life worth living, and to help take off weight and keep it off. Group 1: Milk. Weight watchers favor skim milk, either liquid or powdered, a pint (or its powdered equivalent) each day. If you simply don't like skim milk, don't despair. Add powdered skim milk, at least one-half cup to other foods on your menu during the day. Mix it with whole-grain hot cereal; stir it up in cottage cheese, or treat yourself to a "malt" about a half-hour before mealtime to cut down your appetite. Make it this way: 'To one glass of hot water (as hot as you enjoy drinking), add one-half cup powdered skim milk. Stir briskly until dissolved. Add eight drops noncaloric liquid swectener (a real boon to weight-watchers), and cinnamon and nutmeg to taste. Try it! It's so delicious you'll have the whole family joining you, and they'll never believe how few calories it contains. Cheese is also included in Group 1. Cottage cheese, the dieter's old standby, makes a good addition for DIET AS A WAY OF LIFE lunch, with or without fruit, either as a salad or plain. Group 2: Meat and Eggs. Get into the habit of cating a boiled or poached egg for breakfast cach morning. Do you know that you can double your egg calorie count simply by scrambling or frying it? As with the much maligned potato and bread, it is what you put on it that counts! Preferably at dinner, include one small serving of Ican meat. Beef, lamb, and poultry rate lower _ on the calorie scale than docs pork, and liver is excecdingly nutritious, as well as low in calories. But throw away your frying pan! Roast, braise, boil, or broil all cuts of meat for minimum calories. Group 3: Vegetables and Fruits. Go heavy on greens! With the exception of green peas, the green and the leafy vegetables and tomatoes are so low in calories that you can practically stuff yourself and_ not gain weight. But caution. Put a teaspoon of butter on your asparagus, two tablespoons of mayonnaise on your chef's salad bowl, and you may as well stop deceiving yourself about being on a diet. If you are one of those who think there is no use even tasting a green salad unless there is plenty of dressing on it, here are a few hints. First, try your salad ( particularly coleslaw) with plain salt and vinegar, or salt and lemon juice as a seasoning. If that doesn't appeal to you, you might trv either of the following low-calorie mayonnaise substitutes. 'The first is simple. It can be mixed on the spot as you make your salad. LOW-CALORIE MAYONNAISE Blend together 4% cup skim milk, Y% tsp. Mayonnaise, and 1 tsp. Salt. 513 JULY 1964 Pour over shredded cabbage or other greens and toss to blend flavors. The second recipe has the unbelievably low total of three calories per teaspoon of dressing. THREE-CALORIE MAYONNAISE Beat one egg. Add 14 cup vinegar, 114 tsp. Salt, 1 tbsp. Mustard, and 1 tsp. Liquid non-caloric sweetener (or 6 saccharin tablets dissolved in vinegar). Beat until frothy. Add '4 cup mineral oil, a little at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Continue beating until mixture is very thick and will stand up in a rounded peak. Add more vinegar, salt, or sweetener to taste. Add more mineral oil to make about 1 pint dressing. If stored in refrigerator, it will keep indefinitely. So fill up on greens! Make a big green salad your mainstay for lunch, and eat cooked or raw tomatoes, asparagus, green beans, spinach, or other green vegetables for dinner. But you need not omit the heavier vegetables entirely. Occasionally, include a small serving of beets, carrots, green peas, and squash as variations on your vegetable menu. A small baked or boiled potato seasoned with salt and a teaspoon or less of butter or other shortening may also be a part of your diet each day. Fruits are essential for the dieter, both for food value and to serve as a pleasant substitute for rich, heavy desserts, which as you know have no place at any time in a reducing diet. Include each day one serving of citrus fruit or juice, or a cup of tomato juice. You may also cnjoy one or two small servings of fresh or canned fruit besides this. Avoid 514 dates, figs, raisins, and prunes; they are high in calories, and when eating canned fruit packaged in syrup, pour off the syrup before eating the fruit. Group 4: Bread and Cereals. Each day you may include either three slices of whole wheat bread or two slices of bread and one serving of whole-grain cooked cereal. You may allow yourself up to three teaspoons of butter or substitute during the course of the day; part of your allowance may be used on bread, and part as a seasoning for vegetables. Tuat is all there is to it! Learn to be satisfied with small servings of the basic foods; cut off visible fat, pour off syrup from fruit, and, please, no seconds! Dieting is never easy at first; you have become accustomed to loading your stomach with excess food for so long that by now it is probably stretched. For a few days or weeks, it will expect and demand its Sarl oversupply of food. But if you are determined, in a few days you will find that smaller helpings of food will satisfy you. Eat slowly; take time to enjoy your food. This, too, helps to give you that full feeling. You may eat your daily allotment of food at any time of the day you wish; however, common sense will tell you that if your food is divided pretty evenly among three meals, vou will get through your day with less hunger and more energy. But remember — this eating pattern is not a trick diet guaranteed to take off twenty-five pounds in two months. 'This is a new way of life, and you must adopt it with the determination that you are mever going back to your old eating habits again. While you are trying to lose weight (and do check with your doctor before starting any diet), you must not only eat the essential foods specified, but you must also absolutely omit (no cheating now) candy, sodas, sundaes, soft drinks, tich desserts, cream, gravy, olives, bacon and other fat meat, and all fried foods. And hold to an absolute minimum any use of sugar and salad dressing. Between meals nibbling? Sometimes it can be helpful, if you nibble the right things at the right time. About a half hour before mealtime (especially if you are feeling particularly famished), try a steaming cup of beef or chicken bouillon; it has only seven calories to the cup. Or, once a day, a powdered milk "malt." These may help you to hold the line at mealtime, and say "no" more easily to the temptation foods. And, for a bedtime snack, a tall glass of hot lemonade sweetened with saccharin is a warming and cheering way to end your day. And, when cooking, particularly desserts, get into the habit of making a few substitutions which materially cut the calorie count of dishes without altering their taste or appearance. In virtually all recipes, skim milk can be substituted for whole milk, and evaporated milk can be substituted for cream, reducing not only the calorie count but the cost of the dish. For high calorie dairy sour cream, substitute a like amount of evaporated milk soured by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar for each cup of milk. Sour milk may be made in the same way, by the addition of one tablespoon of vinegar to one cup of skim milk. And, when a recipe calls for whipped cream, substitute whipped powdered milk made as follows: DIET AS A WAY OF LIFE POWDERED WHIPPED MILK TOPPING Y% c¢. Ice water % ¢€. Powdered milk "> C. Sugar, or 1 tbsp. Liquid non-caloric sweetener, or 24 tablets saccharin 2 tbsp. Lemon juice Chill small bowl and beater in refrigerator for one half hour before mixing. Put ice water and powdered milk in bowl. Beat until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, and then add lemon juice. Let stand in refrigerator a few minutes before using. Makes one cup whipped "cream. So, finally, vou have your weight down to the desired level. It has been a long struggle, and you certainly don't want to have to go through that again. So, how are you going to hold the line? First of all, if you don't now own a bathroom scale, invest in one, if possible. And once you have your weight down to where you want it, get into the habit of stepping on the scale to check yourself once each day. Make it the same time every day, as your weight fluctuates normally from two to three pounds during the course of the day. Probably your most flattering time to weigh will be first thing in the morning before breakfast. Then, if you discover that you have put on a pound, do something about it immediately. Don't wait until the pound has become ten. It's no chore to take off one pound, but it can be real misery to get rid of more. Good luck to you on your new program! And as your scales and your mirror tell you of new beauty and the robust energy and health that goes with right choice of foods, vou will be glad you stopped counting calories and got acquainted, instead, with good nutrition. 515 Bonnie S. Hansen I had such a nice Tattersall plaid suit. The jacket was not worn badly, and when we moved to a much colder climate, my need for winter clothes increased. I had pondered over and over the problem of this fitted jacket, which had shoulder pads and wide shoulder seams. One day I took a piece of tailor's chalk and started to mark where I would like to change the jacket, and this diagram represents the resulting outline. I removed all the buttons, sleeves, and collar, and altered the front as illustrated in the diagram. Now the remodeled new jacket and the altered skirt make a very useful outfit which is quite stylish. The old skirt needed a slight 516 alteration. It had a 3-inch side vent on each side, and I sewed up these openings. Also, it had to be taken in a little on the hips for a better fit. The top, or weskit, as it turned out to be, was faced with the same material as was used in making a new blouse to go with the outfit. The color used for the blouse and facing matched one of the colors prominent in the plaid. I top-stitched the weskit all around the edges, but it could have been made so that a narrow edge of the facing might be seen on the outside. New buttons in a color to match the facing were used. In the plaid design of my suit, the background color was navy blue, with a small plaid of red and gray, and I used red facing for the weskit, red material for the blouse, and red buttons. "Train Up a Child" Dorothy Hicks T rain up a child in the way he should go," the book of Proverbs instructs, "'and when he is old, he will not depart therefrom." My husband and I unwittingly put this instruction to the test recently and found that it, like the other instructions given in the scriptures, really works. We had occasion to go out early one evening, and left instructions with the baby sitter to put the children to bed. It was late when we returned home, and all three pajama-clad cherubs were snuggled under their blankets, sound asleep. Peace! It's wonderful! We thought. For once we could get a good night's sleep! Unfortunately, my husband tripped over a chair in the dark and awakened the baby, who had to be quieted with cuddling and a bottle. This accomplished, we again. Headed for the bedroom and that longed-for good night's sleep. Just as Morpheus was about to carry us off, a pair of plastic-soled feet came pattering toward our room. They belonged to our three-year-old daughter, who whimpered that she had had a bad dream and wanted to make sure mommy and daddy were home. She was reassured that all was well and was requested to go back to bed. "But I can't, Mommy," she said. "J haven't said my prayers yet." There in the darkness, we knelt together to help her thank her Heavenly Father for her blessings and ask his protecting care over her during the night. When the prayer was finished, she pattered back to her bed and fell peacefully asleep. Her parents knelt a moment longer to thank the Lord for this example of a child's faith, and to request continued guidance in training up this child and her brothers im the way they should go, so that when they are old, they will not depart therefrom. Grandmother's Chair Carolle Denton in the rhythm Of the heartbeat, Feel the rocking of the chair. To the anthem Of remembrance, Dream your dreams while rocking there. Love abiding, Fears go hiding, When the rocking tune is sung. Movement sighing, Lullabying, Rocking chair for old and young. 517 Delilah Davis Pike — Her Hobbies Bring Happiness Delilah Davis Fuller Pike, Sait Lake City, Utah, has made a lifetime hobby of making articles of exquisite handicraft. She is an expert in designing and stitching quilts, and her afghans display a discriminating use of color and integration of patterns. She crochets bedspreads, tablecloths, doilies, and edgings in intricate and lovely designs, many of them being her own creations. She has made many decorative pillows and other gift items. At present she is completing a project of making a quilt for each of her five daughters. Much of her work has been contributed to the displays for bazaars in the Eleventh Ward of Grant Stake. She has served as a visiting teacher for more than fifty years. Her home and her garden are beautifully cared for, and she takes special pride in growing roses. 518 0od by fan, pon dmother, F days in Man ti. In her © the sego bulbs, "In my childhood da 18) Wn, each ¢ Sharpened On one °80 diggey It end, and flat on t¢ of town and look Ing them. %9 519 Writing Five Books Janice Dixon Look at my book!" my four-yearold son, Danny, might say to you if you were a visitor in our home. He is very proud of his book, a book all about him. You would be lucky to get away without seeing all five scrapbooks, one for each of our children. Just another photo album, you might say. It is a photo album, but we use heavy, bound scrapbooks and make them an up-to-date life coverage of each child separately. This way there is no fighting for pictures when the children get older. We divide the pictures equally now. We also include important happenings 520 in their lives, such as birth certificates (photostats), blessings, special letters from grandparents, and an anecdotal history of each child. In Danny's book you might read: "Today your father went in a plane to New Mexico. Danny watched the plane soar into the sky. "Where's Daddy going?' he asked. "Down to New Mexico,' I answered. 'No, Mommy, he's going up to New Mexico.' " We are careful to include full dates on every picture and incident. First words are interesting to all children, they want to know exactly what they did when they were babies. Writing them at once in their scrapbooks taxes the parents' memories less, and the little stories can be told the same way twice and not forgotten. Charles, now eight, still giggles over the story he wrote when he was two and a half, about his grasshopper: My Daddy bring me a grasshopper. My grasshopper jumps on the rug. No, no, Ste'en. Don't eat my grasshopper. My put my grasshopper in bottle... My grasshopper eats grass. My give my grasshopper more grass. Where my grasshopper? No, no, Ste'en. Don't eat my grasshopper. No, no, Ste'en. My grasshopper — all gone. When our fifth baby was born, we wrote each of the children's reactions to him and included them in each scrapbook. It read something like this: "Today we brought Douglas home from the hospital. Two-year-old Lucy ran to the car to meet us and thought it was wonderful that we brought a little doll for her. Then he cried, and it took us some time before she would come close to him again. Four-year-old Danny was also pleased with the baby and wants to hold him all the time. Six-year-old Steven doesn't admit that he likes the new baby, but he has brought eleven of his friends in to see him with the announcement, 'Look what mama layed!' Eight-year-old Charles figures it's an everyday occurrence, and after one look at the baby, he shrugged, 'Just what I expected,' and went off to play." We try to include one or two of the children's best drawings for each ('M WRITING FIVE BOOKS year. The rest of the pictures and drawings are very carefully glued into an old magazine which gives each one his own inexpensive, yet permanent scrapbook of drawings. I was getting ready for a party. | made a special apple pudding dessert which Charles especially likes. "Mother," he said, "when are you going to start that recipe book?" What recipe book? "When I get married IT want my wife to know - exactly what I like!" And so, we have added special recipes to Charles' book. The children have used their scrapbooks so much that they have torn some of the pages in the books. Celluloid tape becomes brittle with time, but I have learned one good way to repair these books, and all other books. Use plastic glue and paste it on the tear. Put wax paper on both sides and close the book. Let it dry over night. Then just peel off the wax papers and the tear is fixed, stronger than ~before. The books are used so often that the regular mounting corners do not hold. We glue the items in permanently and use the mounting corners Only for color and decoration. We include the child's ancestral history, with pictures as far back as we can collect. Because each child was named for someone in our family, we tell them stories about their namesakes, and write it in their books. We want our children to be proud of their names and their heritage. We feel we -have accomplished this partly through the individual books for each of our children. 521 Acceptance State of mind." Age is also the total of life' Its tempo, &auged to th every thought and effo has Tendered t, Inging j ° Problems, with a f; a Te. Prayer, Our definite link with God, Ting en]j, htenment Nd ins iration, § cnlig P. D 4 sort of sunset to ellower With age, and the Music an, a life attuned to Years pass 5 | an q t his humilj in stowing old (one should no ty. If 522 Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel across the plains with their own outfit, in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena's fiance dies at Winter Quarters, and still bitter and sorrowing, she refuses to take an interest in Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and, later, they decide to go to San Bernardino, California, with the saints who plan to settle there. Selena and Lon also are in the company, but are separated for - most of the journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who travels with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues an ardent courtship of Selena who appears to enjoy Alfred. Chapter 6 Wirn the heat and discomforts of desert travel behind them, the Lyman company moved on in the last stages of the journey to California. There were new problems, however. The way was rough, tongues and reaches were broken out of the wagons, and stops had to be made for repairs. The timber along their route came in handy many times. The animals were greatly weakened by the long, arduous trip, and sometimes as many as twenty oxen were yoked to a wagon to pull it over a particularly steep place. This, of course, slowed the journey. Near the end of the trip Brother Pratt and his missionary group decided to leave the Lyman group and forge on ahead. He rode back bidding "goodbye to all with whom he had traveled thus far. "So you're going on ahead?" Josiah asked, having heard the plan. "The other missionaries and I are anxious to be on our way. Since there is no particular reason for the rest of you to make great haste now and every reason to give your animals a little time to rest and eat, we are moving on in the morning to the Chino Ranch." "The Lord bless you, Brother Pratt," said J osiah, shaking the 523 JULY 1964 hand of this man whose journey had barely begun. "He always does," answered Brother Parley. "Our appointment is to teach the restored gospel to those waiting to hear it in the Islands of the Sea. We must get started with all diligence as soon as possible." "It takes great faith to go, Brother Parley." "Tt will take great faith to stay in California and build up that part of the Lord's vineyard," answered Brother Pratt. "It doesn't matter where we labor, Josiah." SELENA sat nearby, listening. The words had a familiar ring. She had heard them many times before, but they had never struck her with such force. Nauvoo, Great Salt Lake, California, perhaps the locality didn't matter nearly as much as other things which she had been overlooking. Her mind was drawn back to the conversation between this apostle of the Lord and_ her brother-in-law. "Yes, we plan to send a wagon back with supplies as soon as we get to Los Angeles,' Brother Pratt was saying. '"'We know how low the food supply is. It seems a bit un-Christian to have such concern for the people far away in the Islands and at the same time fail to take care of our own." Josiah reached down from the wagon and shook hands with the man on horseback. "Good luck to you, Josiah. May we meet again." Elder Pratt touched his hat and nodded slightly toward Belle and Selena. They watched him ride away, knowing they had been in the presence of a great man. 524 The rich grasses were welcomed by the animals, many of whom were so thin that their ribs could be counted, and by their owners, giving them assurance that they would have enough animals to make a beginning when they arrived. And at long last they did. It was June 11, 1851, when the company paused on the edge of the San Bernardino Valley and began looking for a place which would be their permanent settlement. Food supplies were at a low ebb, but the missionary who had gone ahead with Brother Pratt returned with his wagon loaded. The newcomers were as interested in the talk about their entrance into California as they were in the food he had brought. "What are people saying? What is their attitude?" The questions were asked many times, but the missionary understood, knowing their concern as_ to whether the experiences suffered by Church members in Missouri and Illinois were to be repeated. "The news is geod," the missionary told them. 'The feeling seems to be very favorable concerning our making a permanent settlement. The Angelenos are agreeable, even anxious that we do stop in the San Bernardino Valley, thinking that it will provide a buffer for them." "Buffer?" Josiah replied. "What do they mean?" "Well," replied the missionary, smiling, "I've heard several of them say this settlement by the Mormons is going to be a big help in keeping the Indians from sweeping in from their desert haunts to plunder their settle- ments. You will be between the Indian territory and them, and they are taking some comfort in this fact." Knowing Selena's constant fear of Indians, Belle watched her but could tell little as to whether the missionary's message was having much effect upon her. Outwardly Selena appeared unmoved by the words, which was just as she wished it to be. She knew well enough that, even though the long journey had been completed successfully without the loss of one human life, there were many other problems besetting the leaders, and her small ones were best kept to herself. As the Lyman company caught up with the advance group, a grove of sycamores offered the first haven of shelter in California to the new settlers. There was plenty of water and feed and the near -starved animals were turned out for their well-earned days of eating and drinking. They must be in a condition to do the farm work that lay ahead. For the leaders there was also the immediate question of where to make the permanent settlement. "Like to come along, Lon?" asked Brother Rich. "We've got to see Williams as soon as possible and settle the details if he's still willing to sell his Chino Ranch." Lon wondered at Brother Rich's statement. He had thought the purchase all but completed. Oh, he well knew there was little money to complete the transaction, but Lon had not anticipated any change in the attitude of the seller, as Brother Rich evidently did. And Brother Rich proved to be entirely correct. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "Then you have changed your mind entirely about selling the ranch?" Lon noted the note of deep disappointment in Brother Lyman's voice. "TI have your letter here, written by your own hand in December, last. You were more than a little anxious to dispose of your holdings. Here, read it for yourself." "I know what it says," Williams replied, brushing the proffered sheet of paper aside, "that 'I make this proposition in consequence of ill health, and not being able to manage things as I would wish.' But the months have passed, my health is considerably improved, and as I said, gentlemen, I have at the present no wish to sell." "Why can't we just homestead, Lon?" This was Belle talking. She wasn't ready even now, thought Selena, to want to move on to land already under cultivation, not Belle. If the land had ever felt the point of another's plow it would be, in a measure, spoiled for Belle. "Why can't we just take up some land © of our own?" "All the productive land around is pretty well taken up," Lon replied. ""We must have land that will sustain this large group. Of people. There is one more possibility right now, Josiah," he said, turning again to her husband. "J. D. Hunter, who was a captain of the Battalion, is now Indian Agent in Southern California. His suggestion, when he met us after leaving Williams' place yesterday, was to go see the Lugo brothers and make an offer for the Rancho San Bernardino." 525 JULY 1964 Belle's hopes began to rise. Not that she was averse to having her baby in the wagon box. This wouldn't inconvenience her much more than all the traveling had done. It was just that she liked things done in an orderly fashion, and it seemed right and proper to her that her child be born in the permanent settlement, now that they had reached California, and not in some temporary camp. "You said brothers?" asked Josiah. ""Then that means we have more than one to deal with in attempting to buy their land." "That's right," agreed Lon. "Hunter says there are three of them, Jose del Carmen, Vincente, and Don Antonio Maria Lugo. But he also says that Don Antonio is the boss of the outfit and what he says goes. So all we have to do is convince him that the Mormons need his ranch more than he does, and after this is done, there is the small matter of getting the money to make the down payment." E arty in July a copy of the Los Angeles Star was circulated throughout the camp. The piece in which they were most interested read: The statement that three hundred wagons from Deseret had arrived in the Valley of San Bernardino was an exaggeration. The actual number is one hundred forty. They are not all Mormons, but many of them are, having crossed the plains in the fall of 1850 and wintered in Salt Lake. A large portion of the Mormons will make this Valley their permanent residence. A few will go on to the Sandwich Islands, while others will locate at San Diego from which point the supplies for the Salt Lake settlements will be forwarded. We learn that they are negotiating for the purchase of the Rancho San 526 Bernardino, from the family of Don Antonio Maria Lugo, by whom it is held. This is the site of the Old Mission of San Bernardino. Here, probably, this interesting people will make their first establishment on the shores of the Pacific. Lon closed the paper and folded it. "This is quite different from the newspaper notices we received in Illinois and Missouri. It is a relief to see this in print. At least we're not labeled undesirables from the start, though it may very well come later," he added. "You've been pessimistic about this whole thing from the beginning, Lon. Are you sorry you came?" asked Josiah. Lon looked past Josiah to a shady spot in the grove where he could see Selena and Alfred sitting close together on a huge log. She was laughing gaily at something Quale had said. Lon watched for only a brief moment, then he looked again at Josiah. "Not sorry, exactly, but I find myself wondering whether I did myself any good in coming." WosIAH understood. "I don't understand Selena," he said. "I doubt if she understands herself. She will say something that makes both me and Belle feel that she's seen enough of Quale. Then I see her with him like this and wonder whether she will be telling us they are getting married." "When that happens,' Lon said quietly, "I'll take one horse and a pack and hit the trail back to Salt Lake." "Lon! You wouldn't! You couldn't pull out and leave the settlement!" "The big job was getting here, Josiah. I stayed to see that finished. You say I can't leave. When Selena decides to make her decision, I've already told her this, that if it is in favor of Quale, I'm ready for the return trip." A few days later Lon left the camp for a time. He had been called to accompany the leaders to the northern part of the State in an effort to raise money for the down payment on the ranch. Josiah, too, had had a chance to make the trip and would have liked very much to go, but thoughts of Belle being left without him at that time, made htm decide to stay in camp with her. Josiah thought it best not to mention to Belle that he had been asked to make the trip. If he gave the slightest inkling that he wished to be going along, he knew how insistent she would be that he do so. This was going to be his first son (it had never cccurred to him that it might be a girl), and whether Belle thought it was necessary or not for him to be present, Josiah had no intention of being away when his son was born. KeEEP your eyes open, Lon," Josiah told him on the morning Lon rode over to say goodbye. "T've always wanted to see some of the gold diggings. How far are you going?" "There are a number of Mormons working in both San Francisco and Sacramento. We plan to visit Mormon Island and any other mining camps where we hear of members of the Church being located." Lon removed his right glove, holding his reins lightly in his left hand and leaned down to YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING shake hands with Josiah. "Good-bye, Josiah," he said. "See you in a few weeks." "Good-bye, Lon. I'll take good care of Selena while you are away." Lon replaced his glove and glanced toward the wagon where he could see Belle and Selena watching. "T have an idea," he said, '"'that you're going to have plenty of help." He touched his hat in a farewell gesture to the two women and rode off at a gallop. The parting puzzled Josiah, but then he could not know, and Lon would be the last to tell, of his attempt to see Selena the evening before. Lon had decided that perhaps he had been too reluctant to make a good fight for the girl he loved. Yet he had a great fear of pushing himself in where he might not be wanted. Then, suddenly, he had decided to make an attempt to see her alone before he had to leave. He had shaved, cleaned up the best he could, and walked through the grove toward Josiah's wagon. There was a full moon lighting the valley and Lon breathed deeply of the fresh night alr. The white trunks of the sycamores stood out plainly in the moonlight. And then Lon saw them. He hadn't intended to spy but when he saw Quale take Selena in his arms, Lon stood transfixed. It was a_ lingering kiss, and Lon suffered the agony of every second. Then he had turned, moving quickly and silently, glad that they had not noticed him, and returned to his own camp and a sleepless night. (To be continued) 527 Violets Are For Remembrance Carol Mattson Miay I relate my experience which happened because of my overwhelming success in following the instructions given by Irene Dunlap in her article "'Let's Grow African Violets," June 1963. On the death of my sweet mother November 12, 1961, a dear and thoughtful neighbor presented us with a beautiful, blooming African violet. I gave it all the tender, loving care to which Sister Dunlap referred, until approximately April 1963, when I could see all my efforts were in vain and unless something was done, my plant would not live to continue to be a living tribute to my mother. (The Magazine to which I refer had not yet been received by me.) I am not one with a green thumb and do not have house plants, but I became attached to this little plant as it was an everyday reminder of my mother, so I wanted desperately to have it live. I took it to a specialist in the raising of African violets, supposing it would be no problem to get a start. After looking sadly at the plant, he remarked, "There's no life left in this plant, why don't you just buy another?" I explained its importance to me and was crushed when he said, "They are just like people, after they get so old, they die, too!" I had only one plant, and more determined than ever I came home and cut the remaining leaves off and put them in water, hoping to get a start within a month or so, and when I had only one leaf left, my Relief Society Magazine came and opened new avenues on plant culture to me. I followed the instructions on propagation to the letter, as well as I could with what I had left — one leaf! It has taken many months of tender, loving care, but I am now enjoying the fruits of my labor, and my plant has come into its own, and possibly this week it will blossom. There are several starts which I am going to take off as instructed. 528 General Secretary-T'reasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents See regulations ¢ wWerning the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field in. The Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Hl rndbool Instruction RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Minidoka Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidents Honored at Visiting Teachers Convention, November 1, 1963 Left to right: May Jones, first president, Minidoka Stake Relief Society (1924-1942); Katherine Barnes (1944-1954); Doris May (1942-1944); Bertha Burch (1954- 1 - "We feel that it ls quite unusual that in the nearly forty years our stake has been organized, there have been only four presidents. The three former presidents are all living in our stake, and each holds office in her respective ward. At our visiting teachers convention, we paid special honor to our former presidents." JULY 1964 Yakima Stake (Washington), Yakima Ward Singing Mothers Present Program of Christmas Music, December 22, 1963 Front row, left to right: Edith Dyson, Evelyn Smith; Doloris Holden; Margaret Webster; Dorothy Throssell, chorister; Marie Peyton, organist; Edna Dearinger; Jane Wilks; Jean Rude; Barbara Blackhurst; Jeanette Bowman. Back row, left to right: Lynn Bos; Connie Creek; Olga Paradis; Mabel Brack; Joan Balholm; Carole Clifton; Luella Howell, President, Yakima Ward Relief Society; Margaret Nichols; Rosemary Coalwell. LaVern G. Jackson, President, Yakima Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Singing Mothers of Yakima Ward presented a program of Christmas music, December 22, 1963. At this time the Christmas story was told in scripture and song, narrated by Archie Buys. The Singing Mothers also furnished the music for the Yakima Stake service held on Christmas day. These Singing Mothers enjoyed their weekly practices and look forward to presenting the music for sacrament meeting each month." Southern States Mission, South Georgia District Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Seated: organist Gertrude Robertson; next to Sister Roberston, standing: Katie Henry, President, South Georgia District Relief Society; at Sister Henry's right: Mary Joy Crouch, conductor of the chorus. Rene Welch, fifth from the right on the front row, and MarDean Bell, ninth from the right on the third row, are counselors to Sister Henry. Elva G. Ravsten, former supervisor, Southern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "These sisters have furnished music for many occasions — district conferences, inter-faith socials, and just recently for the district Relief Society conference. They are a very happy group, and they love to sing. Many have been inspired by the beautiful music they have rendered. Sister Robertson is indeed an inspiration to the sisters. Her many years of studying and teaching music are now being shared with this group of mothers. Avis Waters is the assistant conductor. Avis and Mary Joy are daughters of Sister Robertson, and they have furnished duets and trios for many funerals, as well as church meetings. The Southern States Mission is very proud of these sisters, as well as of the Singing Mothers in all five of the districts throughout the mission. These sisters love the gospel, and they love to share it with others." The new supervisor of Relief Society in the Southern States Mission is Mamie Priscilla Adams Hunsaker. Clearfield Stake (Utah) Poster Display Sets Theme for Visiting Teacher Convention, February 7, 1964 Left to right: Ora Barlow, President, Clearfield Stake Relief Society; Opal Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Barlow reports: "This spiritually rewarding visiting teacher convention used as a theme 'Truths to Live by From the Doctrine and Covenants— Jewels of Strength.' Beautiful music was rendered by the Singing Mothers under direction of the stake music department, with Mary Blood and Evelyn Butler as directors. "The poster display set the theme for the convention. It was prepared by Opal Wood, and represents the eight visiting teacher messages for this year. The messages are presented in poster form, with corresponding pictures, along with a miniature model of the Prophet Joseph Smith, as shown in the shadow box, praying in the sacred grove, depicting the channel by which all the revelations were given. "Sister Mary Ann Adams, who is eighty years old and has been a visiting teacher for fifty-eight years, was honored, and also her granddaughter Carol Adams Kilburn, the youngest visiting teacher in the stake. All visiting teachers who have served for more than twenty-five years were also honored. At the close of the convention, a delicious luncheon was served to approximately 200 sisters." 530 ~ Direct Revelation - leit TEACHERS JULY 1964 Scottish Mission Visiting Teachers at Convention March 14, 1964 At the right, former mission presidency: standing (wearing white sweater), Rachel Wilde, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Easton, Counselor; seated: Kathleen S. Farnsworth, former President; right of Sister Farnsworth (front): Elizabeth McKittrick, Counselor. Sister Farnsworth reports: "A delightful convention and social honoring the visiting teachers of the Scottish Mission was held March 14, 1964, at the mission home. The sisters who attended felt that this was a great success, both in spirit and in numbers present. Most of the sisters present were newly called to serve as visiting teachers. Representatives from most of our twenty branches enjoyed the program and received valuable instructions. Members from each branch present participated in the program which consisted of a tribute and a response; a play "The Improper and the Proper Ways to Do Visiting Teaching;' 'The Key,' a parable of visiting teaching; a question and answer game on visiting teaching; musical numbers; and the film 'Unto the Least of These.' As a special favor, a daffodil corsage (buttonhole) was pinned on each visiting teacher. Refreshments were served. The mission board members were hostesses for this convention." Ruby Mildred Haight, wife of the new mission president, David B. Haight, is the present supervisor of Relief Society in the Scottish Mission. Bonneville Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention November 21, 1963 Left to right: Fay Geary, President, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society (whose ward had the largest number of visiting teachers attending the convention); Mary Bateman, who has served for fifty-two years; Jeanetta Christensen, who has a record of thirty-nine years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teacher convention was held in conjunction with leadership meeting. Five Relief Society General Board members living within the boundaries of Bonneville Stake, paid glowing tributes to the visiting teachers, each relating some event to stress the importance of the visiting teacher in the Relief Society organization. "Special tribute was given to our stake visiting teacher message leader Melvira Barlow. Awards of ceramic dolls, typifying visiting teachers, and made by the stake work meeting leader Merelda McKay, were presented as follows: Thirty-Third Ward for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers in attendance; Alberdina Gruman of Douglas Ward for fifty-five years service as a visiting teacher; Mary Bateman of Garden Park Ward for fifty-two years as a visiting teacher; and Jeanetta Christensen of Yale Ward for serving thirtynine years without interruption. "A delectable brunch was served to 251 sisters following the program." 532 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 533 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Relief Society Stake and Ward Officers and Visiting Teacher Message Leaders, at Leadership Meeting January 24, 1964 Standing at the left, front: Betty T. Erekson, Secretary-Treasurer, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society; Momo T. Ushio, First Counslor; Luella W. Finlinson, President; Helen P. Erekson, Second Counselor. Sister Finlinson reports: "The South Cottonwood Stake is very proud of the visiting teaching record established by its eight wards in 1963. Each ward had 100 percent visiting teaching for every month of the year. We know that this was accomplished only through the faithful cooperation of each individual visiting teacher and the devoted supervisors who ably assisted the presidents in this accomplishment. We know that there is a definite correlation between a successful visiting teacher program and the strength of a ward Relief Society organization. We are thrilled with the attendance at visiting teacher meetings that these wards have had. Our stake average for the year was sixty-one per cent, with an over-all forty-five per cent average attendance at the other meetings. This represents an increase of four per cent over 1962. The following presidents of the wards who accepted the challenge a year ago are: South Cottonwood, Mary D. Twitchell; Second, Evah C. Green; Third, Phyllis N. Jensen; Fourth, Patricia E. Martinson; Fifth, Raymona P. Erickson; Sixth, Marion A. Reed, Seventh, Maxine H. Nelson; and Eighth, Mary W. Lovell. "At the leadership meeting each ward was given an open-book trophy, with its record of the past year's visiting teaching record of 100 per cent engraved on one page. On the other page was engraved its 100 per cent Magazine quota record. The parent ward, South Cottonwood, has had a 100 per cent visiting teaching record since 1949, and the Second Ward since it was divided in 1952." 534 Weber Stake (Utah), Ogden Second Ward Honors Elderly Sisters at Anniversary Party, March 17, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Margaret Borger, eighty-two; Rosemond Packer, eighty-seven; Rosella Williamson, President, Ogden Second Ward Relief Society; Rachel M. Jensen, ninety-six; Laura Saunders, eighty-four; Gertrude Smith, eighty-two. Back row, standing, left to right: Larinda Clark, eighty-three; Dora Browning, eighty-three; Mary I. Tanner, eighty-six; Lucy Lowder, eighty-two, Mary Godell, eighty-one; Mary Crezee, eighty-four. Ione Hurst, President, Weber Stake Relief Society, reports: '""This was a very successful anniversary party, with ninety sisters in attendance. A new sewing machine was presented to the society. Part of the funds was donated by friends of Daisy Stigers, a deceased member, who so requested, in lieu of flowers, for her funeral services. Eleven Relief Society members over eighty years of age were presented with corsages and introduced as special guests. Nine others were unable to attend. Other guests given recognition were two former presidents, stake board members, and twelve former ward members who had been active in Relief Society. "After a delicious luncheon, a program entitled 'Memories' was given. The group joined in singing old-time tunes, after which a fitting tribute to Relief Society, written by Sister Larkin, President, Ogden Twenty-sixth Ward, was given with accompanying film slides. One of the sisters sang 'Memories.' Sister Williamson showed slides of many Relief Society activities she had taken through the years. Her narration was given in rhyme. A tribute in poetry was given, honoring the sisters who have died in recent years. Pictures of many of these sisters were shown. The program fittingly closed with the song "The Lord's Prayer.' " 535 'll ee » \\ S a. THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 57—The Vision Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76:1-49) Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; For First Meeting, October 1964 its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat. INTRODUCTION Of all the revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning man and, particularly, his destiny, probably none other equals Section 76. In discussing the latter-day books of scripture, President Wilford Woodruff made the following statement:.. When I read these solemn, these eternal declarations made through the mouth of Joseph Smith, my heart swells with gratitude and praise to God, my heavenly Father. I consider that the Doctrine and Covenants, our Testament, contains a code of the most solemn, the most Godlike proclamations ever made to the human family. I will refer to the "Vision" alone, as a revelation which gives more light, more truth, and more principle than any revelation contained in any other book we ever read. It makes plain to our understanding our present condition, where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going to. Any man may know 536 through that revelation what his part and condition will be. For all men know what laws they keep, and the laws which men keep here will determine their position hereafter; they will be preserved by those laws and receive the blessings which belong to them (Journal of Discourses 22:146-147). On the day this great revelation was received, February 16, 1832, the Prophet wrote his own evaluation of what the Lord had made known to him. The purity of this revelation. Witnesses the fact that that document is a transcript from the records of the eternal world. The sublimity of the ideas; the purity of the language; the scope for action; the continued duration for completion, in order that the heirs of salvation may confess the Lord and bow the knee; the rewards for faithfulness, and the punishments for sins, are so much beyond the narrow-mindedness of men, that every honest man is constrained to exclaim: "Jt came from God." (DHC YJ-252-2538). The foregoing statements sugwhat is in store for him as he reads Section and related revelations, one must acknowledge that man's uninspired conceptions of the future life were truly narrow and severe. How, actually, is jt possible for in life, and man's destiny, has piqued man's curlosity over the Ous consideration of these important questions. HOW RECEIVED While J oseph Smith was revising the Bible by inspiration, aided by Sidney Rigdon as scribe, the Lord touched the eyes of their understandings (D&C 76:19) and, in open vision, they beheld the glories of the eternal worlds, and the darkness reigning in the regions of the damned. The work of "translation" in the gospel of John, fifth chapter, verse 29, was the impetus for the Inquiry which brought forth the Lord's answer to their query regarding the resurrection of the hosts of mankind, both good and evil, mentioned in that verse. (Tbid., verse 15.) This revelation brought forth the truth regarding man's destiny. In general, "ChrisLESSON DEPARTMENT doom awaited the unbeliever regardless of the opportunity or lack of Opportunity for acknowledging Christ. Such a_ belief would raise questions 'Tegarding the resurrection of all people, rather than a favored few. The flood of truth received through this revelation regarding a resurrection for the "eyj]" as well as the "good" brought the true gospel's message of hope to the world. An account of some details concerning the receiving of this revelation is given by Elder Philo Dibble, as follows: The vision which is recorded in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants was given at the house of "Father Johnhe had seen or what he was looking at. Then Sidney replied, "I same." Presently Sidney would say "What do I see?" and would repeat what he had seen or was seeing, and Joseph would reply, "I see the same." This manner of conversation was repeated at short intervals to the end of the vision, and during the whole time not a word was spoken by any other person. Tion made by anyone but Joseph and Sidney, and it seemed to me that they never moved a joint or limb during the time I was there, which I think Was over an hour, and to the end of the vision. 537 JULY 1964 Joseph sat firmly and calmly all the Mme in the mi ETERNAL PROGRESSION The first ten verses of Section 76 reveal the great blessings that are promised the faithful. The revelation opens with the proclamation that beside Jesus Christ there is no Savior. There follows a message of assurance to those who will accept him as_ their Savior. It is based upon the revealed truth that Jesus is infinite in his knowledge, his ways, and his Purposes, which never fail. (Verses 2-3.) Notwithstanding the Lord God has passed through an earth life as we are now doing, it is true he is the same from eternity to eternity. (Verse 4.) The ultimate destiny of the exalted is eterna] progression, reserved for those who "serve me [God] in righteousness and in truth unto the end" As President Joseph Fielding Smith has _ exknowledge concerning God's ways, his purposes, even the hidden things of learns only an infinitesimal] amount of what there is to learn. VISION OF GOD AND CHRIST Following the reason for receiying the "Vision" (D&C 76:11- 18), again the eyes of Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were Opened to understand God's glory. Latter-day Saints are the most richly blessed people in all the world. No other people have So much support for their belief in God and his Purposes. In addition to the grandeur of the First Vision received in the spring of 1820, this revelation stands as a monument of assurance that men in cur generation have received a sight-knowledge of Deity. Surrounding the throne of God were concourses of angels, the sanctified, who were seen to worship him. Then these brethren recorded what has come to be one of the great testimonies of the latter days: And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— That by him, and through him, and of him, the are begotten sons and daughters unto God (verses 22-24). Joseph Smith was not alone in receiving this testimony. Two men, seeing the same things, give the lie to some claims that the testimonies of J oseph Smith were false, for, as the scriptures say, "In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established"' (II Cor. 13:1). Many things may be learned from this testimony: (1) Joseph Smith was not a fraud. He subsequently went to a martyr's grave in defense of his knowledge of God and his purposes in the eternities; (2) earth's imhabitants are the begotten sons and daughters of God; (3) not only are we of this earth his children, but also other worlds are inhabited by his spirit offspring; (4) the real basis for the brotherhood of man, which, if accepted, could bring peace and _ understanding among men, must be founded upon this knowledge: (5) a true understanding of why we should be obedient to gospel principles is discovered in our relationship to God and the purpose of this life. THE PAST Section 76 reveals the past as well as the future. (Verses 12- 13.) Next in vision these brethren beheld the time when Lucifer rebelled against the Father and the Son and thus became the fallen one. (Verses 25-27.) He is known as the one who sought to take the kingdom from the Fa'her and the Son. (D&C 76:28, 29, 36-38.) His purpose is to overcome those who follow righteousness. Lucifer's efforts are expressed in terms of warfare, even assaults from all quarters— he "encompasseth them round about" (verse 29). The notion that Satan exists only in the minds of men is denied by this revelation. The testimony of the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon is that Lucifer is a real spirit-being whose influence is felt for evil and whose mission is to despoil, lead into degradation, overcome the saints, and, eventually, claim as his own all who will succumb LESSON DEPARTMENT to his enticements. (2 Nephi chapter 28.) SATAN'S VICTORY—SONS OF PERDITION Section 76 (verses 30-39) gives the answer to two questions regarding the class known as the sons of perdition. Who are the sons of perdition? What is their fate? Concerning the first question, the revelation says that they have known God's power and then, knowingly, deny that power (verse 31). When one is endowed with the Spirit to know the existence of God, having great understanding of the principles of exaltation, and then denies this knowledge, he sins against the Holy Ghost that opened the heavens to him. This constitutes blasphemy against the Holy Ghost and puts the Savior to open shame. Such a person brings upon himself everlasting condemnation. (Verses 31-35.) Jesus said that all sins might be forgiven, including speaking against him, but to sin against the Holy Ghost was unforgivable. (Matt. 12:31 - 32.) Why is this so? Even though the Son is manifest in a vision or dream, it does not impress the soul as does the testimony of the Holy Ghost. It is Spirit speaking to spirit that gives greater conviction than a vision; therefore, the condemnation is_ greater. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: ]mprovement Era, July 1955, pp. 494-495.) The Prophet Joseph Smith says of this class: All sins shall be forgiven, except the sin against the Holy Ghost; for Jesus will save all except the sons of perdition. What must a man do to commit the unpardonable sin? He must receive the Holy Ghost, have the 539 JULY 1964 heavens opened unto him, and know God, and then sin against Him. After a man has sinned against the Holy Ghost, there is no repentance for him. He has got to say that the sun does not shine while he sees it; he has got to deny Jesus Christ when the heavens have been opened unto him, and to deny the plan of salvation with his eyes open to the truth of it; and from that time he begins to be an enemy. This is the case with many apostates of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints ( Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 358). It should be noted that when this sin is committed it is done in full. Knowledge and not in ignorance. FATE OF SONS OF PERDITION As already noted, the sons of perdition will never receive forgiveness in this world nor in the world to come. (D&C 76:34.) It should be remembered that the sons of perdition discussed in this lesson are those sons of God who have come to mortality and not the unembodied spirits who followed Lucifer in the premortal world. Both of these classes—the mortal sons of perdition and the spirit sons of perdition — suffer the second death, which is complete, or total banishment from God's presence forever. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 24.) Adam became spiritually dead when he sinned, as do we, but the spiritual or second death suffered by the sons of perdition, comes by _ blasphemy against the Holy Ghost. This penalty brings death as to things pertaining unto righteousness. (D&C 29:41.) Repentance is not possible for these persons because they have lost the power of turning from their sins since the atonement of Christ is no longer effective for their salvation. 540 ALL RESURRECTED Due to a misunderstanding of Section 76, verses 38 and 39, some have believed that the sons of perdition will not receive their bodies in the resurrection. This belief dces not agree, however, with what the Lord has revealed about the resurrection. (Verses 16-17.) The interpretation of verses 38 and 39 of Section 76 is expressed by President George Q. Cannon: A careful reading of these verses, however, and especially of the preceding paragraphs, will show that the Lord does not, in this language, exclude even the sons of perdition from the resurrection. It is plain that the intention is to refer to them explicitly as the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power "for all the rest shall be brought forth by the resurrection of the dead, through the triumph and the glory of the lamb." This excluded class are the only ones on whom the second death shall have any power, and "the only ones who shall not be redeemed in the due time of the Lord after the sufferings of his wrath" (Juvenile Instructor 35:123, Feb. 15, 1900). NO GLORY KINGDOM Latter-day Saints are prone to consider that there will be only three kingdoms after everyone is resurrected, because three degrees of glory are mentioned specifically in the scriptures. (I Cor. 15:40-42.) The Lord has revealed that the place of the sons of perdition is also known as a kingdom, but it is of no glory. (D&C 88:24.) The exact conditions of that kingdom are unknown. That it is a place of endless duration is clear. No man living can understand the fate of this class because the Lord has said that only those who are partakers of that punishment will understand its end, width, height, depth, and misery. (Ibid., 76:44-48.) Notice what the Prophet said: Say to the brothers Hulet and to all others, that the Lord never authorized them to say that the devil, his angels or the sons of perdition, should ever be restored; for their state of destiny was not revealed to man, is not revealed, nor ever shall be revealed, save to those who are made partakers thereof: consequently those who teach this doctrine, have not received it of the Snirit of the Lord. Truly Brother Oliver declared it to be the doctrine of devils. We therefore command that this doctrine be taught no more in Zion (DHC 1:366). SATAN'S DEFEAT Despite the fact that there will be few who will become sons of perdition, Satan will have gained a victory over that number. On the other hand, his victory over the vast host of mankind will be only partial, for all of the rest will find some degree of glory in the kingdoms prepared for them. Many will not have realized their full potential as scns and daughters of God, but only a measure of God's honor. The judgment rendered at the time of the resurrection will be just, for it will be according to one's works. (D&C 19:3; 128-8.) The creeds of men, developed over the centuries without revelation from heaven, have pictured God as banishing the sinner forever in a hell where punishment is endured eternally. This doom was believed to be incurred by the vast majority of mankind. The notion that there were only "heaven" and "hell," without an intermediate state of preparation for immortality or resurrection, gave rise to a doctrine of salvation incompatible with the teachLESSON DEPARTMEN! Ings of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The saved were wafted into heaven, while the sinner went to hell, lost forever. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 453.) THE GOSPEL PLAN In contradiction to this erroneous and unjust concept of God's justice, the message of The. Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints proclaims the doctrine that our Father in heaven is solicitous for all of his children and has provided the means whereby they may receive, if not all, a part of his glory. This, however, comes only by their placing themselves in accord with divine laws either in mortality or in the spirit world. We learn: And this is the gospel, the glad tidings, which the voice out of the heavens bore record unto us— That he came into the world, even Jesus, to be crucified for the world, and to bear the sins of the world, and to sanctify the world, and to cleanse it from all unrighteousness; That through him all might be saved whom the Father had put into his power and made by him; Who glorifies the Father, and saves all the works of his hands, except those sons of perdition who deny the Son after the Father has revealed him. Wherefore, he saves all them... (D&C 76: 40-44). Except Questions for Discussion 1. What incident gave rise to the Prophet's inquiry of the Lord which brought forth Section 76? 2. What superior evidence is given in this revelation about the existence of God? Give the contributions to our understanding of God and our relationship to him from Section 76:22-24. 3. What is there in Section 76 to establish that it contains information about the past as well as the future? 4. Discuss: To what degree will Satan's efforts succeed? 541 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 57 — '"'Leave Judgment Alone With Me, For It Is Mine and | Will Repay..."" (D&C 82:23). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, October 1964 Objective: To emphasize the importance to us of conscientiously and consistently avoiding the temptation to judge others. THE tendency to pass quick judgment on others is one of the most common of our human weaknesses. It is so easy to observe the actions of others and to come to quick conclusions regarding their motives and_ intentions. Consequently, all of us are prone to fall into the error of quick, unqualified and, certainly, unjustified judgments. This is a human frailty against which we have been frequently warned and about which we should be constantly on guard. As the Lord says, we must leave judgment alone with him, for he alone can know the reasons for human actions and what lies in the human heart. President McKay in discussing our proneness to judge told the story of "A poor old Frenchwoman who was walking along the banks of the Seine River. She had a threadbare shawl around her shoulders. She stooped and 542 picked up something and put it under her shawl. A policeman a short distance away saw the act. He hurried over to her and said, 'Let me see what you are holding under your shawl.' "She drew out a piece of glass, saying, 'It is only a broken piece of glass. I picked it up because, perhaps, some barefoot boy might cut his foot on it.' "What a lesson to the policeman who misjudged her! Yes, I know he was doing his duty, but he thought she was taking something which did not belong to her, when her act reflected the nobility of a great soul" (Pathways to Happiness, page 148). What a lesson to all of us! How often in observing an action or an attitude on the part of one of our neighbors or friends have we been prone to impute motives and reasons which, because of our lack of full information, are wrong and misguided. Let us remember, that in our limited knowledge, it is impossible for us to know the circumstances which prompt others' actions. The Lord alone knows the _ capabilities, the thoughts, the needs and desires, which motivate human action. In the Book of Psalms we read "... He [the Lord] hath prepared his throne for judgment. And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness" (Psalms 9:7-8). The Savior said, "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1). The scriptures repeatedly emphasize that by the judgment we mete to others we also shall be judged. Undoubtedly, the best way to overcome our proneness to judge others is to form the wonderful habit of looking for their good qualities rather than for their faults. A certain individual had fallen into the habit of criticizing and complaining about an acquaintance with whom he was in close association. In discussing the problem with a friend, he was asked, "Does not your associate have any good qualities?" To which came the reply, "Yes, he in generous to a fault." This appraisal started him thinking about the man's good LESSON DEPARTMENT qualities. Each time a negative and fault-finding thought entered his mind, he immediately tried to think of a good quality with which to replace it. As a consequence, this approach soon revealed that his associate possessed many fine qualities. It wasn't long before the two became fast friends. One of the results of fault-finding and attempting to judge others is that it establishes a negative point of view, which clouds our vision and cankers our souls. On the other hand, looking for the good in others is the positive approach, and enhances and manifests the good in our own personalities. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Emphasized the importance of leaving judgment to the Lord and of the fact that the Lord judges us with mercy and love. He said: I have a feeling... That when the time comes for passing judgment... For every good deed we have done, we shall receive the full reward that it is possible to bestow under the rules and laws governing, and having in mind justice. And I have the further: feeling that for every ill thing we do there will be imposed upon us the least penalty that may be bestowed having in mind the principles involved,— eternal justice seasoned with mercy and love (Clark, J. Reuben, Jr.: Conference Report. April 1958, pages 48- 49). PRAYER Nellie B. Schmidt Blessed are they who have learned to pray, For they shall walk in the light; For prayer is the key that opens the day And the lock that guards the night. 543 WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Discussion!|—Introduction (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meetings) For Second Meeting, October 1964 Objective: To decide what happiness is and what some of Wat better study for Latterday Saint women to engage in, than that concerning the pursuit of happiness? For in their positions as wives, mothers, grandmothers, sisters, and neighbors, it is their charge and obligation to create a climate within the home that will germinate and nurture seeds of happiness. This achieving happiness is a noble calling, for Lehi in 2 Nephi of The Book of Mormon made the statement so dear to the hearts of the Latter-day Saint people, "Men are that they might have joy." Modern day prophets have reiterated this principle. Joseph Smith said that 'happiness is the object and design of our existence." Brigham Young added, "To make ourselves happy is incorporated in the great design of man's existence." John Taylor told the saints of his day that "it is 'life and the pursuit of happiness' that ought to occupy the attention of all intellectual beings."" And President David O. 544 the bases for its achievement may be. McKay has said, "Happiness is the end and design of life." Latter-day Saints know that when we were given our bodies and permitted to come to this earth to accept the challenge of life here with its temptations and pitfalls and were given our free agencies to choose between good and evil, we were also given the opportunity to achieve full and unlimited happiness. This year in our home management discussions we are plotting a course for ourselves and our families that will lead us to that happiness and joy about which the prophets have written. No person on earth has such an opportunity and yet such a responsibility as does a mother for bringing happiness into a home, for it is through her that a home builds its spirit of happiness. It is from her candle that the others take their light. Each day as she sends her family out from the home she has the oppor- tunity to do so with a cheery word, a bright hope, a promise. And when she welcomes them home at night it can be to peace and serenity, warmth and love. Benjamin Franklin tells the story of a workman building a house who always appeared so cheerful and merry, regardless of the circumstances surrounding him, that it was finally asked of him the secret of his constant flow of happiness. "It is no secret," he replied, "I have one of the best wives; and, when I go home, she meets me with a smile and a kiss.... She has done so many little things through the day to please me that I cannot find it in my heart to speak an unkind word to anyone." Another husband has described it this way, "When I put my key in the front door lock, I feel that a burden is being lifted from me. When the door closes behind me and I know I am inside my home, I can throw off the struggle of competition.... When I hear my wife call from inside 'Hello,' the front door closing behind me has worked a miracle." Abraham Lincoln said of his home, "Here is my heart, my happiness, my house. Here inside the lighted window is my love, my hope, my life. Peace is my companion on the pathway winding to the threshold." There can be no doubt that homes are the wellsprings of happiness. If the mother is happy, then the whole family will likely be happy and will make a happy place for themselves in the world. Today, let us be about the business of bringing happiness into our homes. The time to be happy is now. The place to be happy is LESSON DEPARTMENT here. And we can all be as happy as we make up our minds to be. Let us resolve right now that whether we feel happy or not, we will look as though we are and speak and act so. Let our conversation today in work meeting reflect it — in the tone and in the content. Our actions here at work meeting should reflect happiness — the harder we work and the more we accomplish, the more joyous we will feel. Courtesy and kindness shown to others will encourage gladness. Creativity and ingenuity (two objectives of work meeting) kindle happiness. Participation in a worthwhile program or project always brings more happiness than being a spectator. After succeeding today, then let this same attitude pervade our homes through the ensuing weeks. Let us live as though we believe that homemaking is the noblest profession of them all, attacking our work with joy, rejoicing in the goodness of our husbands and children and grandchildren, recognizing our blessings and not our ills, striving for a communion with our families and neighbors that is sweet and constant. And, above all, we must try every day to be helpful to others, for as surely as the sun rises every morning, the way to be happy is to make others happy. Happiness begets happiness. If we will live as though we are happy and give every appearance of it, happiness will walk beside rb Let us live for this blessing of happiness, for if we are desirous of a righteous blessing and live worthy of it, we will surely receive it. 545 LITERATURE 'The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 1—The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature (Textbook: Out of the Best Books: Objective: For Third Meeting, October 1964 An Anthology of Literature, Part I—The Individual) To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism. You may learn through trial and error to become a _ competent seamstress without formal instruction—for an ill-fitting jacket is a powerful spur to improvement, and experience does teach. But no one ever created a lovely, satisfying dress who did not understand the principles of good sewing. A mere awareness of the characteristics that a well-mad>s garment should have is no guarantee that you can make one to match your ideal. It may, however, give you a feeling of security when you are trying to decide which of two suits is the better buy. You can teach yourself to recognize real value through trial and error, but it is an expensive and frustrating process. How much better to be instructed by someone who will share her own experience. The young woman who has been taught by her mother in basic principles of clothing selection and care is truly fortu- 546 nate, for this is a continunig responsibility which she cannot escape as a wife and mother. The ability to judge excellent fabric or shoddy construction comes with experience. No one is born with it. All must learn to compare and evaluate. The satisfaction, however, which comes from knowing that you can discriminate skilfully in both making and buying clothes for yourself and your loved ones is a deep and abiding one. Actually, of course, comparing and evaluating are necessary in all that we do, but sometimes we fail to see this clearly—especially when we are dealing with intangibles. It is hard to discern a feeling or a quality, and for this reason most of us can talk more easily about material than spiritual things. But this does not mean that we can neglect to develop spiritual awareness. It is not enough that we have vague spirit- ual aspirations. Our eternal salvation depends upon our ability to make precise choices. While it may demand real effort, spirituality can be developed, and the lessons which are provided each month in Relief Society are eloquent testimony that spiritual discernment can be developed. DEVELOPING LITERARY SENSITIVITY A similar sensitivity needs to be developed in considering literature, and it, too, can be both taught and learned. The trouble here is that we do not think it important to discriminate precisely in literature. We are reluctant to accept a sales clerk's glib description of a dress without trying it on and checking its construction. We also recognize the profound necessity for each person to work out his own spiritual salvation, but we may be content to read non-religious books' uncritically or sit by while a teacher talks about literature. Perhaps we think that because we are reading or listening only for enjJoyment that we can be passive and undiscriminating. Such an attitude is frightening because it is just while we are in such a passive state that we are most susceptible to influence. We are also apt to be overawed by those who tell us what various literary works mean, and we are tempted to let others make our literary judgments for us. This is both unnecessary and unfair, unfair to the authors and works we study and, most of all, unfair to ourselves. We lose the growth which critical development brings. No vague appreciation of literature provides this. We must learn LESSON DEPARTMENT to discern, to become critics, in order to help ourselves and our families to choose the best guides for life, and few influences are as potent as the material we read. FOUR MAJOR CRITICAL METHODS The first section of the text for this year gives a detailed account of the four major critical positions which you will need to be aware of if you want to develop critical sensitivity. The discussion there is mildly technical in order to provide the background for the basic understanding of critical theory. You can become a competent critic—and know the thrill of being able to make your own judgments—if you focus on the method which each position stresses. A. Emphasizing the Message. The first approach emphasizes the message of the work. It is referred to as the Platonic method, after the Greek philosopher. What does the poem or story say to you? Since what the poem seys to you will be determined, in large part, by what you bring to the poem, you find yourself judging it on the basis of your experience and beliefs. If the poem is about nature, and you bring a deep love of nature to the reading or hearing of the poem, it will mean more to you than to one who doesn't share your enthusiasm for the out-of-doors. It may well mean something to you as a Latter-day Saint that it will not mean to fricnds of other religious faiths. The standards which you use in evaluating this poem are set by your experience and convictions before you begin reading. Let us 547 JULY 1964 illustrate this in examining a poem by this first approach: THE CROSS OF SNOW In the long, sleepless watches of the night, A gentle face—the face of one long dead— Looks at me from the wall, where round its head The night-lamp casts a halo of pale light. Here in this room she died; and soul more white Never through the martyrdom of fire was led To its repose; nor can in books be read The legend of a life more benedight. There is a mountain in the distant West, That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines Displays a cross of snow upon its side. Such is the cross I wear upon my breast These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes And seasons, changeless since the day she died. The poem is obviously one of loss, the loss of a loved one who apparently died by fire. While you have not had an exactly comparable experience you probably have lost, by death, someone very dear to you. You reflect that your loss also took place long ago, but it is still vivid, and you appreciate the author's symbol of the cross of snow—with all its suggestions of suffering — for it describes your own feelings well. Faith in a hereafter, however, partially tempers your sorrow, and you do not quite identify with the despairing tone of the concluding lines. This poem appeals to anyone who has experienced the death of a loved one, but you would have to share the author's religious convictions, which do not appear very hopeful here, to identify with this poem totally. 548 B. Finding Critical Standards Within the Work. The second approach stresses the form of the work rather than its message and requires some knowledge of literary types. It is often called the Aristotelian method, after Aristotle, pupil of Plato. This approach focuses on the form in which the poem is written. Let us demonstrate this by considering the same poem we looked at earlier. You still do not care who wrote it, but you do care about its structure and the relation of part to part in the poem. You note immediately that it is a sonnet. You check to see if the poem is unified by a strong but single emotion, and find that it is. You also note that the author has handled the two-part nature of the sonnet well. The first eight lines develop the situation; the last six give it symbolic and memorable expression. The images are consistent and precise. The author's constant guarding of a saintly memory is conveyed effectively by such words as "watches," "halo," ''benedight," and "changeless."' The suddenness of the catastrophe is beautifully illustrated by the uninterrupted phrase from the middle of line five to the middle of line seven. And nothing is more impressive in setting the despairing tone of the poem than the position given the word changeless in the last line. Coming as it does, it forces you to emphasize it, and in so doing leaves exactly the impact necessary to conclude this tightly controlled poem. C. Emphasizing the Author. The third approach tries to illuminate the work by considering the author and the background of the poem. This is often referred to with reference to the name Longinus, a Greek philosopher, and emphasizes research. If we consider the conditions under which a poem is written, we may be able to understand allusions and references which would otherwise be obscure. The author's experience may add richness to our interpretation of his work. If we look at the same poem we have been examining, we need to know immediately that the author is Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and that he is writing in memory of his beloved wife whose dress caught fire from the candles of the Christmas tree. Although Longfellow tried desperately to smother the fire, and received severe burns himself, he was not able to save her. With the possible exception of Nathaniel Hawthorne and Mark Twain, no wellknown American writer had a happier marriage than Longfellow. He adored his wife, and her death seemed to him to have a terrible appropriateness in that she died as so many other saints had done—by fire. The fact that it occurred near Christmas was also suggestive to him and probably helped in the choice of his concluding symbol—the cross. D. Acknowledging the Verdict of Time. The fourth position is a very practical one, named after Horace, the Roman. It suggests that you check to see what other people have thought about the work you are examining. If a poem continues to be read and discussed year after year, if it gives pleasure and inspiration to succeeding generations, it cannot LESSON DEPARTMENT be discounted whether it seems to qualify for praise under any other position or not. Unfortunately, this approach cannot be used with much success to evaluate contemporary works. We need the perspective of time to compare and evaluate by this standard. Even the eighty years which have elapsed since Longfellow wrote "The Cross of Snow" are not enough to know whether it will truly last. We do note that it is appearing more and more often in anthologies today, while some other poems of Longfellow like "The Village Blacksmith"'— once extremely popular—are rarely reprinted. Perhaps, in conclusion, the use of these four approaches can be effectively illustrated by considering The Book of Mormon. Under the Platonic method we can check the "message" of this work by standards which we bring from our study of other scripture. No book, not excepting the Bible, is better able to defend itself on the basis of what it has to say to all Christians than The Book of Mormon. From the Aristotelian point of view, that is evaluation on the basis of form, The Book of Mormon is equally impressive. Its title page states clearly what it claims to be, which is essentially Hebraic history. We need to be aware, however, that Hebraic history is a very special kind of account. To the Hebrew, history is God's dealings with his chosen people, no more, no less. It is not recorded to satisfy curiosity; it is written to change lives, to bring its readers to a knowledge of God. Theology, therefore, is presented in answer to human problems. 549 JULY 1964 Digressions on philosophy, geography, economy, or any other concern which does not specifically reflect God's dealings with his people are rare in any Hebrew history —and they are just as rare in The Book of Mormon. If we take the standards by which we judge from the work itself, this book is precisely, and triumphantly, what it claims to be. At first glance, the abridged nature of much of The Book of Mormon would seem to make reference to particular writers in it unusually difficult, but real persons can be seen in looking at the different writing styles of such small books as "Enos" or "Jarom." As an example, consider the headlong impetuosity of Enos. His verbs are particularly vivid: "sunk," "cried," "swept," "did pour out," "labored." Contrast this with calm, exacting Jarom. Unlike Enos, he is very careful with his diction. Note his description of the Lamanites in verse six. How careful he is to give us their attitude as well as their actions. They not only killed; they "loved murder." There is an authentic ring to these statements. These are such actual people that when Jacob tells us "to be carnallyminded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal,' we can almost hear him say it. He is as real as our own beloved leaders today. Although the Book of Mormon has been in print for fewer than 150 years, demand for it has never slowed. By Horatian standards— which insist that the test of time cannot be discounted—-The Book of Mormon is doing very well. When generations yet to come find this book significant, The 550 Book of Mormon will have passed its ultimate critical test as a literary work. SUMMARY The important thing to remember about this lesson is that anyone can begin to become an able critic of literature if he recognizes the necessity for discernment and works at developing his critical sensitivity devotedly. You simply begin where you are. To start, don't worry about what the author means; (1) find out what his work means to you. Then (2) try to see how the work is put together; look for the "recipe" of the poem or story. (3) Add to this, as you are able, information about the author which will give richness to your analysis. Then complete your development by (4) seeing what others have said. Throughout the lessons which follow we will try to demonstrate the use and significance of these methods. They should help you appreciate President McKay's comment that "the value of good reading consists, first, in selecting good books and, second, in seeing clearly what is therein written." Questions for Discussion 1. Why is it necessary to be "critical" of literature? Why won't simple appreciation do? 2. What is the special strength of the first critical position for Latterday Saints? 3. What is the danger of focusing on the life of the poet rather than on his poetry? 4. Note how beautifully such a work as The Book of Mormon stands up under the four critical approaches. Why, on the other hand, will most modern writings not be remembered a hundred years from now? SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 15—The Application of Divine Law to Life For Fourth Meeting, October 1964 Objective: To emphasize that religion and life are and must be one. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves (James 1:22). He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple; and he that saith he receiveth it and doeth it not, the same is THESE scriptures have been and still are favorite quotations of speakers. They have been repeated so often that they have almost become verbalisms (a verbalism is an empty form of words), insofar as they produce any active response in the lives of the hearers. INTELLIGENT VOLUNTARY ACTION Christ's action was voluntary even to the giving of his life in the supreme sacrifice. "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself"? (John 10:18). In this, as in all other actions, the Savior was aware of the will of the Father. His every act was in line with the divine plan dictated by truth and righteousness and designed to give full and complete expression to man's potential. The major principle of righteous living is voluntary action, knowing good and evil and choosing the good. Action based on fear, not my disciple... (D&C 41:5). Superstition, or ignorance will not bring exaltation nor the full realization of perfection. THE PERFECT PATTERN INVOLVES ACTIVITY The Savior's life was one of action in complete agreement with his teachings. Even as a child he pointed out the necessity of being about his Father's business. (Luke 2:49.) In reviewing his life, there is abundant evidence of the application of his own teachings. At the conclusion of his earthly activity and in connection with his appearance to the Nephites on the American Continent, the Father testified to the people that Christ's life on earth had been fully accepted when he said, 'Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him" (3 Nephi 11:7). The Savior thus became the ideal pattern for us 551 JULY 1964 to follow. His acceptance of the Father did not come simply through delivering a message and teaching truth. It included a dayby-day performance of the principles of eternal life. He tested out the reality of the first and second great commandments — love of God and love of fellow men. He placed the great stress on service. In his growing to maturity, Christ went through the usual experience of living with people; he participated in church services; he exercised his trade; he met people in a business way and had his place in a family. His mother pondered in her heart (Luke 2:19) all the things that happened in relation to his divinity for he was the Son of God. THE IMPORTANCE OF LEADERSHIP Christ's example of leadership set the pattern for all men, and, particularly, for the Church in this, the dispensation of the fulness of times. He knew the sorrowing and suffering of all the people. He healed the sick, raised the dead, and counseled people in their struggles, both temporal and spiritual. He personally stood the test of temptations in the areas of the greatest human weaknesses, the craze for power and wealth, the urge of the appetites, and the test of faith and humility in relation to the use of the power of God. The Savior's living testimony of his teachings is of major importance in this lesson. The simplicity of his teachings and living makes his example one which each member of the Church can emulate. The effective functioning of the Church government depends upon a lay leadership. The responsibility of each 552 member is to be prepared in the divine pattern of leadership. Essential to this is a sense of dedication to the great principles that Christ exemplified in his life. President Rudger Clawson once said, 'When the men holding the Priesthood live up to the ideals of the Priesthood, the Church advances rapidly; when they falter in their duties the progress of the Church lags" (Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 111.) The Church organization, as we know it, is the structure or instrument through which the Priesthood or power of God can function, but the proper and effective functioning of Church government depends upon the degree of righteousness of the people involved. No ornamentation of the physical structure of the Church can substitute for this. LEADERSHIP DEFINED Leadership is the key to the successful functioning of the Church organization. A_ leader is commonly referred to as a person with the ability to visualize, organize, and energize. In plain words, a leader must have vision, be able to see relationships and implications of the course being proposed. He must be able to develop organization sufficient to meet the demands of the objectives involved, and must have the energy to stimulate the members of his group to action. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, the leader must also have the spiritual quality necessary to communicate with divinity and receive divine guidance in his particular assignment. Great leadership in the Church comes from a realization of the possibilities or potential of the calling in relation to what can be done for the membership and the part this work can play in building the kingdom of God on earth. A true leader in the Church does not look upon his assignment or calling as a status symbol, but as a challenge to use his talents in the service of the group. He is motivated by love and dedicated to the task of bringing the group to the goal and purpose of the Church, which is perfection and exaltation. Leadership in the above situation is not based on force or violence. It comes "by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned" (D&C 121:41). This describes the leadership of the Savior. As has been already pointed out, Jesus was a doer of the Word. Leaders in the Church must be members whose lives are consistent with the pattern set by Jesus Christ. DECISION AND TRUE VIRTUE People in leadership positions are expected to set the proper example, providing for the members the evidence of the effectiveness of the principles of the gospel in daily living. Nevertheless, each person is responsible for the decisions he makes in relation to divine counsel. In every human contact, in business, in recreation, in school, family, or Church, the rules of right living must be the same. Decisions are made on the basis of the real values in one's standard of living. True virtue is expressed in decision-making which is done on the basis of full know!- edge, knowing the right and the LESSON DEPARTMENT wrong and choosing the right. While there may be some variance as to what is right among the different cultures of the world, there can be no question as to what is right and truth in the revelations of God. He is the Author of all that is good and true. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, revelation or divine law is the wisdom or counsel of the Creator given as direction by which man, the creation, can, by his own choice, reach the height of his possibilities. There are those who argue that right is a matter of interpretation, expediency, or intellectual justification. Too often these arguments are an effort at rationalization to relieve one's mind from criticism of personal behavior. Virtue is not limited to one area of behavior. It applies to all our decision-making where right and wrong are concerned. The pattern of virtue is formed in the numerous small decisions one makes from day to day. THE IMPLICATION OF CHOICE Being confronted with problems is the spice of living. Decision-making is the evidence of the character of the individual. Almost every moment that we are awake we are required to make decisions. The freedom and right to make these decisions by ourselves is a priceless heritage and blessing. To be an accepted member of any group, one's decisions must be controlled, influenced by, or at least in conformity with the values and standards of the group in which he desires membership. One's 553 JULY 1964 claim to acceptance in the Church is based on this sound principle. Church standards are the same for all members whether it be in family relations, in activity on a social plane, in dealings in business operations, or in participation in Church opportunities for service. The action of an accepted member of the kingdom must be motivated by love, guided by wisdom, tempered with justice, consideration, and kindness. He must perform his service with a sincere desire for the improvement of others. LIVING THE GOSPEL Madame Marie Curie, a very famous scientist, discovered and applied a method of extracting radium from raw ore. She was able to secure the first ounce of this precious metal. Its dollar value was fantastic and she was poor, but she dedicated her findings to the welfare of mankind. She gave her ounce of radium to the medical profession to be used in the treatment of human ills, an example of true service for the welfare of mankind. Such outstanding examples of dedicated service can be found in many different fields. Others of less magnitude can be observed in various areas of everyday life. The importance of such examples is to illustrate that human beings are capable of the pattern of conduct Jesus exemplified in every moment of his life. He was the perfect example of human living. There is ample evidence to show that behavior such as he exemplified can be performed by all of us, not occasionally or by chance, but regularly and by choice, recognizing the value of such behavior. 554 Honesty is a habit and virtue grows out of it. Being honest with oneself in relation to the standards and values that have formulated one's philosophy of life, is essential to virtuous living. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the standards and values come from God and are contained in the divine law that directs the Church. SUMMARY As previously pointed out, divine law is the counsel of God given to provide direction in the lives of human beings that will assist them in the development of their greatest possibilities and lead them toward perfection, and in the direction of Godhood, man's greatest potential. The function of Church government from the beginning of time has been to give direction to human association. How to live together successfully has been the major emphasis. In the city of Enoch the people achieved perfection enough to be translated. The people '"'were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them" (Moses 7:18). All the sons of Adam had been taught the basic principles of right living, but evidently only the few in Enoch's city put the principles into practice. Another example is found in The Book of Mormon, 4 Nephi, where the people accepted the divine way of life and lived together in peace for 200 years. Sacred literature is full of suggestions for right living. There are many who have knowledge of the facts of divine law, but until they apply the principles in their lives, they will not produce right- To the degree that we live the teachings of th degree will l. Do the Principles of interfere with th ings doing? 2. Is there a difference In your Treligious behavior your regular activities ™ life? IS the relationship between your religion and effective Participa. Tion as a citizen? 4. In What Way were the People of Enoch's time or the People in 4 Nephi different from us? References New Testament, the Four Gospels The Book f °rmon, 3 Nephi: 4 Nephi Dr. Bruce B. CLarK Mi. Bruce B. Clark is Pr e:, Was called by President Brigi to Organize the University. And Wij. As for many years the e niversity of Utah for three Years efore interrupting his education to Serve ag Mission In the States from 1939 this Mission, he returned to the Versity of Utah to 8Taduate wi -A. Degree in English in 1943 During orld r © served for Cations at an ar Y post. Afte the war © resumed his education. Receiving an M. A. In nglish at Brigham oung Niversity In 19 and a Ph. In nglish and Phi Sophy at the versity of Utah in 195] Ince 1950 h as been on the English faculty t Ig Niversity, erving as After fi @ny other Church Positions, he was Called to be a bishop in 1954, and after Serving Seven years M this Capacit was called in 196] to the High Counci] of his Stake, in Which Position he Served until May Of this year, whe he was again 4PPointed a bish os and relig; n, and is yn Ompletin Critica] biography of Oscar Wilde for qa ew York ublishing firm. Fy Is a Member o an national nd state Profession 1 Organization and jg Sted in w Ss Who mMerica, Hig Wife js da Raphiel] oOrmerly of ampti, Ouisiana, nd they are the Parents SIX child en, S seven to Sixtee Dr. Rogerr K. THomas Dr. Robert K through College and the fi sTaduate School. AS was 8taduated from Re in Portland, and in 1949 }, is M. A. Egree JULY 1964 study in American Literature at Columbia, he returned to Utah and Brigham Young University in 1951. In 1957, he received a Danforth Teacher grant for further study toward a Ph. D. In 1960-61, he was selected by the student body as Professor of the Year. In the same year he was appointed Director of the Brigham Young University Honors Program. In 1962, Dr. Thomas coached the team which represented Brigham Young University on the TV "College Quiz Bowl." Dr. Thomas has served as stake Sunday School superintendent, high councilman, and a member of a bishopric. He served on the high council of the Brigham Young University Fourth Stake until May 24 of this year when he was called as bishop of a B. Y. U. Ward. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi. On December 24, 1948, Dr. Thomas was married to Shirley Ann Wilkes in the St. George Temple. The couple now have three children, Cornel, twelve; Ryan, eleven; and Angie, nine. WINNIFRED CANNON JARDINE Wawnirrep Cannon Jardine, a daughter of Winnifred Merrill and Clawson Young Cannon, spent most of her "growing up" years in Ames, Iowa, where her father was a professor at Iowa State College. It was there she received her college education and was graduated in Home Economics Journalism. After graduation, she was a staff member of the Martha Logan Test Kitchen, Swift & Company, Chicago; a member and, later, head of the Home Economics Department, American Meat Institute, Chicago; Director, Home Economics Department, Radio Station KMBC, Kansas City, Missouri. She was married to Stuart Bryson Jardine in the Salt Lake Temple in 1946. They, together with their family, have lived in Salt Lake City ever since, except for four years spent in Colorado Springs, Colorado. They are the parents of four children: James, Stephen, Mark, and Ann. Mr. Jardine is an agent with The Equitable Life Assurance Society. Since coming to Salt Lake, Sister Jardine has continued to work in her profession. She was an instructor in foods and nutrition at the University of Utah, and has been food editor of the Deseret News and Salt Lake Telegram for the past fifteen years. She has also been a food consultant and free lance writer, having stories published in such magazines as The Relief Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Children's Friend, Better Homes and Gardens, Better Living, Farm Journal, Town Journal, Sunset Magazine, and Successful Farming. Except for her teaching, she has worked entirely from her home. She is a member of the Utah Home Economists in Business, Utah Home Ecoomics Association, and the Utah State Nutrition Council. Sister Jardine has been a member of the YWMIA General Board and has written various lessons for the MIA manuals. She has been both a ward and stake YWMIA president, has served on both ward and stake boards of the Primary, has been a Relief Society class leader, and is at the present time theology class leader on the East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society Board. TO MY DEAR SISTERS IN RELIEF SOCIETY Marion Mallorie Farnborough, Hampshire, England Something wonderful stirs at my heart, When | think how united we are. We each play a valuable part, Each one in a different way. And yet we are all working together And to one Heavenly Father we pray. Ours is a beautiful labor, Each one has a beautiful task— To fulfill the commandments of Christ, And to give unto those who will ask. 556 Humble Values Alice R. Rich RANDMOTHER Maren rocked comfortably before her Charter Oak cookstove in her kitchen-living room and watched the sun set over the western marsh lands as its orange and red changed to drab, that late November day. A heavy wind whipped loose snow against the window panes, but she was cozy inside, with evening chores all done. In the attached shanty she had her coal and kindling, and from the ever-ready pump, under the sheltcring caves, she had her water buckets filled on the wash bench by the back door. Her alonencss was compensated by these humble comforts. She was warm inside in the love and thoughtfulness of family and neighbors. Her side table was gay with cards and letters and a small planter of Philodendron from dear ones who had remembered her recent birthday. Only today Mary Ellen, her young neighbor had brought over baby Stephen, to show her his first tooth. On his chubby feet he wore the white and yellow bootees that Maren had knitted for him. Mary Ellen had needles and yarn with her to get instructions how to make some bootees for a friend who was preparing for a new baby. Later in the day, Marsha came to bring her. Mail from the village Post Office. Along with her Relief Society Magazine, there was a letter from her granddaughter, now living on the family farm where Maren and her young husband had homesteaded, and where they had reared their family of nine boys and girls. The letter was full of everyday activities and happenings, lovely reminders of her own bright and active days there. After a long quiet evening of reading and thinking, Maren banked the fire and prepared for bed. Sincere appreciation welled up in her heart for all the blessings that were hers today. In her prayers she thanked a kind Maker for her wonderful gifts. She felt that heaven could not be very different. LESSON DEPARTMENT WORLD'S FAIR — MAY TO OCTOBER — 1964 Both Individual and Group Tours There will be several tours to the World's Fair including the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Tour leaving July 12, includes Hill Cumorah Pageant, World's Fair, Montreal and Quebec, Canada EUROPE — AUGUST, 1964 HAWAII JUNE 17 — OCTOBER 12 TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Come and See Christie Lund Coles "Come and see,''she says. ~ and | go, because her face is like white wings, poised for flight. "Come and see,"' he says I follow, because his eyes are like twin stars | falling on night. "Come and see," they say. | must hurry; though | may not see, I'm sure their innocence can glimpse infinity. 557 oeETERNAL LIFE—Dungan............ EaIN HIS STEPS—Wilson............ SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES enABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen........ -20 25:.. GOD OF Alt NATURE—Tchaikovsky.............30... GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD—Madsen...........-----.25 2... HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn...........--..------- 25 |IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen.....25 25 >: LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen...............- 20 aONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Sullivan.... TWENTY THIRD PSALM—Schubert Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music indicated above. (10 On Approval ([] Charge Dl Money Enclosed GARR OMNES -......-SESSSENTIE.... ScusteaNbese esa cossrceesesss) Address 2...... Ccccccccceceeceecceeceeceesesecereneeaeeee City and State 3 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Potentials Pearle M. Olsen -An all-wise loving Father planted well the seeds of gifts and talents deep within each one of us. Celestial settings nurtured growth in some degree, and, then, through birth, we brought them, sleeping, when we came to dwell upon this mortal earth. And they remain in embryonic state until his truths impel to action. Then the dormant seeds begin to feel uneasy — swell, and burst the shell of stored potential. Aptitudes therein assert themselves — endeavor to excel on past performance, and compel us on to justify their timeless origin. To set goals for ourselves is admirable; however we need to remember it is through the work, the struggle, the hope we expend in striving for the goal, that we attain growth. We must not give up because the destination appears always to be moving into the distance. Both the journey and the arrival are important. —Nancy M. Armstrong BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable 'instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Pi include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2......55 Zone 6....... 90 Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7. 1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8. 1.20 Zone 5.......... -80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. (——— PESERET_[PEws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 WORLD'S FAIR TOURS 24 days — July 23 to August 15: World's Fair, Church historical places, including Hill Cumorah Pageant. <_ 27 days — August 29 to September 24: WORLD'S FAIR and BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY > All New York tours include: Show at Jones Beach, Rockettes, Top Broadway Show and a special event ticket at World's Fair, etc. -_ BLACK HILLS 8 days — August 16 to August 23: Black Hills Passion Play Tour. Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 99-8051 SPECIAL 10 DAY TOUR July 28 Fly to World's Fair for 3 days. Bus to Hill Cumorah Pageant, Sacred Grove, Kirtland Temple, Carthage Jail, NauLiberty Jail, Winter Cemetery. SPECIAL HOLY LAND TOUR October 8th ALL PERSONALLY ESCORTED "Let Us Help You Travel Worry Free'' Call or Write Murdock Jravel, Inc. (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Salt Lake City 328-3161 AIR — CONDITION one room or your whole house ELECTRICALLY! The proven way! Whichever way you air condition electrically, you'll enjoy these and many other advantages: Feel "Fresh as a Daisy"... Rest Better... Sleep Better... Enjoy Filtered air. Now: New low rates for electricity for air conditioning or space heating in total electric homes. If It's electric, it's better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. | fe] 559 voo, Quarters Birthday Congratulations Ninety-four Mrs. Eva Martell Hodson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida R. McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Louisa Hofer Reichman Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Ninety Mrs. Emma Goss Carter Brewster Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. May MacFarlane Brinton The Dalles, Oregon Mrs. Lily Ingram Parker Ninety-two Kennewick, Washington Ovid, Idaho Salt Lake City, Utah | Elwood, Utah Aronogo, Missouri | Layton, Utah Ephraim, Utah Ninety-one Provo, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Burley, Idaho Faith's Magic Word Ida Elaine James They seemed like gnats before her eyes, Or sand that stings and challenges When every trouble multiplies No matter how one tries and tries. She dreamed of roses — there were none — Just sandburrs, worries, when she woke, Where loomed a desert, drew an oak. Where was no joy, this, too, she sketched Upon the barren plain of mind — And stars to shine where darkness stretched, So cleared her eyes that had been blind. Where heartache had been better known, These things she claimed became her own. 560 Centerville, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah: Mrs. Marie Egley Beck Mrs. Sarah Isabell Brown Sneed Mrs. Lauretta Mattinson Borup p Mrs. Clara Ashford Martin But with her mind she painted one; Mrs. Lucy Debenham Walker Fields Mrs. Emma Helen Hess van Ordstrand | Mrs. Rachel Brown Jackson Mrs. Leota Bilyeu Mrs. Anna Hansen McCafferty Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Mrs. Catherine Adams Whitesides i SALT LAKE CIty 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN SO. MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA THE ART OF TEACHING CHILDREN by Daryl V. Hoole r of the very popular now penned this exive volume. Here is aid to Parents who need guidance in children in true Latter-day S Here is a practical, experience will thrill] every reader! Delight Just off the press! The autho The Ant of Homemaking has tremely helpful and informat an invaluable "tested guide that fully illustrated. $3.95 THE ART OF HOMEMAKING by Daryl V. Hoole dition! This LDS best seller has s out of thousands of housewives! Here are practical suggestions to take out of housekeeping and make your hom of bliss and order. You'll be and mother af add to the Now in its sixth e drudgery e a haven a much better wite ter reading this one. IHustrations volume's value. Setanta MAIL ORDERS FROM: Deseret Book Company " 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Dear Sir: Enclosed please find check (J money order [] I have an account, please charge C]. Amount enclosed $B.... For books numbered J] 9 < eS. —— eat ane ee ——————————_ a — City. FipState Residents of Utah include 3 Y,% sales tax. RS. July 1964 a raising aint homes. Second Class P, oSstage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Cartons Among your grocer's Prominent display of home-grown, homeProduced U & | Sugar you'll soon be Seeing the new look in U&I's Carton sugars. The attractively new and "sweetly feminine" one Pound Powdered Sugar Catton is just one more attraction. Watch for the new Brown, Fine and Superfine Cartons too! UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPAN SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH House of 2avith Carlton Culmsee Into the gray earth goeth the black seeds. Out of the gray earth cometh grass and blossoms. Into the hogan of mud goeth the silver blackened by the hands of many. Out of the hogan cometh the silver reborn Into beauty as new as dawn on the old hills. Out of the hogan of mud and the bower of brush Cometh blankets warm against the wind, Strong against the years, Beautiful as the red mesa in the moonlight. "'May it be beautiful below me. May it be beautiful above me. In beauty it is finished."' (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1938) The Cover: §— Navajo Shepherd, Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: §% Nativity Scene, Photograph by Ray Loomis Art Layout: §§ Dick Scopes Illustrations: ij Mary Scopes LY) pa a. F) Af _-ZB fi SC |. Enjoy very much to receive every month The Relief Society Magazine. It is thanks to my best girl friend Ann Reynolds, who lives in Ogden, Utah, that | get it. | like very much the stories, recipes, and lessons. | was very happy to meet President. Belle S. Spafford wher she was traveling in Europe. I felt her sweet spirit and could see that she was inspired by the Lord in all that she does. 1 am twenty years old and a member of Relief Society for almost two years now. | would like to tell all my sisters who are working for Relief Society | love you all and pray that God will bless each of you with his Spirit and with the blessings that you need. Elaine Gasquy Liege, Belgium The article by Olive W. Burt concerning the patchwork skirt (June 1964) was of special interest to me, since | spent a couple of pleasant evenings working on the skirt in Mrs. Burt's home. 1! Have since made a skirt of my own. Helen Fletcher Collins Dugway, Utah | feel | must write in explanation of an important point in my story ''Mama Lives in the Kitchen'"' (February 1964), brought up in the April "From Near and Far' section. In writing the story | did not mean to imply that the mother was "overwhelmed by kitchen work," or even felt that she was.... Her kitchen was the heart of the house — and a sunny, happy heart it was. The fifteen-year-old daughter in the story thought her mother was abused because she was a romantic-minded girl whose ideas about marriage ended with the wedding.... Perhaps | did not emphasize my point strongly enough, and | am grateful! To Sister Robinson for bringing it up. | enjoyed the April issue very much, especially "More Blessed to Receive" (story by Nita Ellis), with its compelling theme. Lael J. Littke Monterey Park, California 562 = a Mt ttl Lil The evening after | had read the story "The Storm," by Lila Spencer in the April Magazine, | was walking with a dear friend who had been denied the privilege of meeting two of her grandchildren. "It just doesn't pay to get. Attached to anything," she said. For a moment.! Was at a loss for words. Then! Remembered the story "The Storm." ''No love is ever fost,'' | said, "'no love is ever wasted." | pointed out that her grandsons were better off for having known her love through the years, and that she herself had grown from giving it. Thus, this grandmother was cheered and. Comforted. | cannot count the times that | myself have been comforted, cheered, and inspired by the Magazine. Donna Monzello Reseda, California The article ''How About a Get-It Done Day?" (by Vera Stocker, in the April Magazine), inspired this letter and others that | have written this morning. | read with emotion the story "More Blessed to Receive," by Nita Ellis, and can understand, because 1 was on the receiving end this past winter while family and friends waited on me, when | would rather have been up and doing for them. The Magazine contains such choice material. Recently, while visiting a friend, someone called at the last minute and asked her to give a spiritual thought in MIA that night. She asked me for suggestions and! Immediately thought of the April Magazine | had just finished reading, and suggested the short thought ''Application,"" by Louise Murray. In my teaching in Church and at home |! Frequently find myself referring to stories and articles in the Magazine to enrich the lessons. Rosalie S. Wells Promontory, Utah! Really appreciate the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. As a mother and wife 1! Need the help that the Magazine gives me. Mrs. Melvin Billings Provo, Utah The Relief Society ». Ee ee ine _— Volume 51 August 1964 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 564 For the Blessing of the Lamanites Boyd K. Packer 572 Singing Mothers Present Music at the American Mother Rainbow Awards Luncheon Marianne C. Sharp 580 Our Board Goes to Conference Marjorie M. Reeve 592 Promotion Posters for The Relief Society Magazine Gertrude Keeler Fiction 575 Mr. Lewis and the Ravens—Part I Ilene H. Kingsbury 588 The Someday Vacation Alice Gubler Sabin 604 Your Heart to Understanding—Chapter 7 Hazel M. Thomson General Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial: "Compassion Becometh a Woman" Vesta P. Crawford 586 In Memoriam—Alice Bitner Castleton 587 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 587 Picture Kit for the 1964-65 Theology Lessons Available 587 Visual Aid Packet Available for 1964-65 Literature Lessons 611 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 640 Birthday Congratulations The KMarmnp. Incicl 596 Raw Apple Cookies Florence L. Mecham 596 Butter Mints Dorothy Scott 597 Pretty Pillows, Useful, Too Shirley Thulin 602 Gleanings From the Summer Nancy M. Armstrong 603 Pauline B. Wale's Hobby—Seventy Years of Quiltmaking 618 Theology—The Vision (Continued) Roy W. Doxey 624 Visiting Teacher Message—'And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness..." Christine H. Robinson 626 Work Meeting—Health and Its Influence on Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine 628 Literature—Literature "Tasted... Swallowed... Digested" Robert K. Thomas 633 Social Science—The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations Ariel S. Ballif 561 House of Earth Carlton Culmsee Maria's Return, by Lottie H. Singley, 570; Nijoni (The Beautiful), by Helen Fletcher Collins, 571; The Evening and Morning of the First Day, by Carolle Denton, 574; Sequel, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 586; The Happy Children, by Linnie F. Robinson, 595; A Plea for Loveliness, by Alice Lowe Corbett, 601; I Stood on a Hilltop, by Vilate R. McAllister, 610; Lonely, by Catherine B. Bowles, 625; Golden Wedding Anniversary, by Ida Elaine James, 639; The Goodness of a Child, by Christie Lund Coles, 639. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magozine is not sent ofter subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so thot no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utoh, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. For the Blessing of the Lamanites Elder Boyd K. Packer Assistant to the Council of the Twelve In March of this year almost two hundred teen-age Indian boys and girls gathered in Sandy, Utah, in a youth conference of the Indian Student Placement Program of the Church. They represented almost twenty Indian tribes, and they came from reservations spread over a wide area from Mexico on the south to Canada on the north. For the school term they had lived with non-Indian Latter-day Saint foster families throughout Utah and Arizona. The theme of their conference, selected by the students themselves, was "Our History Foretells Our Future." Those who visited the conference and observed the display of talent and leadership during the two days of activity would have agreed that a brightening future awaits these young people. In many ways they reflect the development and progress which is being achieved to an increasing degree by Indian people throughout the land. In fulfillment of Nephi's prophetic words (see 1 Nephi 15:13-14), the Lamanites in our day are, indeed, being restgred to their rightful place in the House of Israel. By their obedience to the principles of the gospel, they are beginning to 564 receive the blessings promised to their ancient fathers. In devising a theme for their conference, the Indian boys and girls gave recognition to the illustrious history and achievement of their forefathers, recounted in The Book of Mormon. Following the time of the Savior's visit to this hemisphere, the NephiteLamanite remnant reached a peak of perfection and righteous achievement. Fourth Nephi records: "And it came to pass... The people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and_ disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with another.... "And now, behold, it came to pass that the people of Nephi did wax strong, and did multiply exceedingly fast, and became an exceedingly fair and delightsome people.... "And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. "There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God" (4 Nephi: Peel0, lG, 17). Topay thousands of Lamanites are coming into the Church. More than one hundred Lamanite branches have been organized among the stakes and within the missions. In many of these branches the leadership is provided by the Lamanite members. They are the branch presidents, the teachers, the auxiliary leaders, the music directors. With increasing effectiveness and with characteristic humility and devotion, they are carrying forward the program of the Church. Lives are being transformed. In some cases whole Indian communities are being affected. In the small Paiute Indian settlement near Cedar City, Utah, a beautiful new chapel points its spire to the sky. The building, faced with colorful native stone, is a monument to the dedication and energy of the members of the Cedar Indian Branch. Much of the work on the new chapel was done by the branch members themselves. To provide a lovelier setting for their chapel, the Indian people have undertaken a community improvement project. Homes and outbuildings are being painted; yards are being improved; fence lines and empty lots are being cleared of weeds and debris. A new sense of pride and industry seems to pervade the little community. The development taking place FOR THE BLESSING OF THE LAMANITES among these people has been reflected in yet another way. Recently the branch presidency was reorganized, and Franklin Benn, an Indian elder, was installed as the new president, the first Indian to serve in this capacity since the branch was organized. A growing number of Indian boys and girls are accepting calls to serve on full-time missions. At the time of this writing there are more than thirty Indian missionaries laboring in the two In- - dian missions. An added number are serving in other missions throughout the world. The Muddy River Indian Branch in the Moapa Stake, with a membership of fifty-five, has three missionaries in the field. If one were to visit the Pomo Indian Branch in the Santa Rosa Stake (California), the OmahaWinnebago Branch in Nebraska, or the Cattaraugus Branch in New York, he would find capable Indian members serving as Relief Society presidents, Sunday School superintendents, and branch leaders. Milore than six thousand Indian boys and girls are attending special Seminary classes which are being conducted across the Nation from New York and North Carolina to California and Oregon. Forty-seven Indian students were enrolled in the Brigham Young University during the 1963-64 school year, and there were hundreds in other institutions of higher learning. But the work is only beginning. There is a great deal yet to be done, and all of us share in the responsibility. Brigham 565 AUGUST 1964 Young charged the membership of the Church in his day to press forward with the work of redeeming Indian Israel. Speaking to a group of the saints in the Provo area, in 1855, he said, "Now, if this people, male and female, feel to school them [the Indians], spend time and pains to instil into their minds correct principles, to divide lard with them... And will go to work and restore them to the knowledge of the truth the Lord God will bless them, and they will have nothing to fear. If you live up to this you will rise, while those who do not will go down. If this people will observe this covenant, and follow it one and all... Thousands and hundreds of thousands will embrace this Gospel, and for ought I know scores of thousands will become members cf_ this Church" (J. D. 9:228-229). Nephi, seeing in vision the important role which the non-Indian members of the Church would have to play in this great latter-day work, said: '"'And after our seed is scattered the Lord God will proceed to do a marvelous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of great worth unto our seed; wheretofore it is likened unto their being nourished by the Gentiles and being carried in their arms and upon their shoulders" (1 Nephi 22:8). The work in behalf of our Lamanite brothers and _ sisters must go forward. They have waited long years for their restoration to the blessings of the gospel. The Lord has placed a direct responsibility upon the members of the Church to see that the great work of redemption does not falter. Every Latter-day Saint should be a friend and a champion of the Indian people. We must be certain that blessings are not withheld because of any indifference or intolerance on our part. Our patient labor in behalf of Lehi's seed can help them to reclaim their inheritance in this land. "And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise unto their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea, at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of God? "Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again among the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a natural branch of the olive-tree, into the true olive-tree" (1 Nephi 15:15-16). And behold, ye are the children of the prophets; and ye are of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant which the Father made with your fathers... (3 Nephi 20:25). Gusher Branch, Utah, Indian Reliet Society (Ute) Front row, left to right: Emma Cireech; Eva Burson; Maryetta Reed, visitor; Vonnie Dahlberg; Stella LaRose. Back row, left to right: Uintah Stake Relief Society Presidency: Norda Cook, Second Counselor; Elouise Turner, President; Helen H. Walker, First Counselor; Sister Hardinger; Vera Olsen, former president, Gusher Indian Mission Relief Society; Zelda Reynolds; Bertha Slaugh; Mary May Murray. Most of these sisters subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine and enjoy it very much. Owyhee Branch, Nevada, Relief Society Work Meeting 567 District and Branch Presidents, at Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society Convention Holbrook, Arizona, July 1963 Front row, left to right: Ester Belabody, President, Moencopi Arizona Branch Relief Society; Helen Sekaquoptewa, Oraibi, Arizona, First Counselor in the Mission Relief Society Presidency; Bonne Marseing, President, Tuba City District; Vera Price, Supervisor, Arizona Indian Relief Societies. Back row, left to right: Elizabeth M. Baird, Supervisor, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society; June Young, Chinle, Arizona, President, Central Navajo Relief Society; Martha D. Paice, Supervisor, New Mexico Indian Relief Society; Alice Overson, President, Keams District Relief Society; Judith Chamema, Counselor in the Indian Branch, Holbrook, Arizona. Some of these sisters traveled more than 150 miles each way to attend the convention. — a 1 iiienaiaeneentlie Hieron iti Omaha-Winnebago, Walt Hill, Nebraska, Relief Society terttnoerd and Sewing Proll 568 Albuquerque, New Mexico, Relief Society Work Meeting Committee (Navajo and Pueblo) & * & y: ead Northern Indian Mission, Wolf Point, Montana, Lamanite Relief Society Displays Bazaar Items Front row, left to right: Vonda Rae Beauchman; Velma Tramblee. Back row, left to right: Emma Beauchman; Leonara C. Red Elk; President, Wolf Point Branch Relief Society; Evan A. May; June N. Ashton (former editorial assistant, Relief Society Magazine) President, Hi-Line District Relief Society; Louise R. Christensen, missionary. Many of the sisters were absent when this picture was taken. As the temperature was 25 degrees below zero (in November 1963). Beautiful handwork and quilts are specialties of these sisters. 569 at a y ee g aR. Yj " 7 7 ~ > 7 Tucson Branch, Arizona, Lamanite Relief Society (Papago) Seated in front, left to right: Lucille Palino; Margaret Tso; Ruth Norris. Standing at the back: Irene Leonard, President, Tucson Lamanite Branch Relief Society; Bahe Billy, President, Tucson Lamanite Branch; Rafaela Garcia. Faithful Lamanite sisters hold all the offices in the branch Relief Society. The sisters are very artistic and skilled in their native crafts. Maria's Return Lottie H. Singley (Through The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints' Indian Student Placement Program, Maria has lived in the home of Mrs. Singley's daughter, Carma S. Crosby, for the school period during the last five years. She is as dear to the family as any child could be.) How could one help but love her, This child of the desert plain; Maria, lovely Maria, is our little Navajo's name. She ran as fleet as a young fawn, Wind wafting her raven hair; The light in her eyes did pirouettes, Her feet balleted supple and bare. Her teeth shone as white as goat's milk, As | cuddled her quivering form; Neither could speak as we clung cheek to cheek, Oh, Maria! My Navajo born. 570 ~ Nijoni (The Beautiful) - Helen Fletcher Collins shall wear this land proudly s a Navajo garment.... The circling distant hills Will be my purple velvet blouse; Vermilion cliffs, my swirling skirts. Upon my feet will be moccasins, Red and yellow sand fastened With white thongs from the ribboned granite. -~ 'rom the turquoise dome 1 shall cut: Blue sky-stones for my squash-blossom necklace, Desert lakes strung on tenuous wires " f rivers that run beneath their own beds. "My concho belt will be little towns | "Spaced along reservation highways 4 Or haif-hidden on Indian pony trails. From the dawn and the dusk | shall fashion al Silver rings and bracelets and bangles; ". Sheer walls of a thousand painted canyons ~<a _ Will cover me with a striped shawl. | An 'the smooth black night { shall brush my hair with moonbeams _ And dress it with a band of stars. singing Mothers Present Music at the American Mother Rainbow Awards Luncheon Counselor Marianne C. Sharp.. The song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads. Tue Singing Mothers of New York and New Jersey Stakes, under the baton of Sister Ellen Neilson Barnes, gave a spiritually moving and impressive experience on May 8, 1964, to the hundreds assembled in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria, New York, at the Rainbow Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee, Inc. This luncheon honored the American Mother of 1964, Mrs. Cora Stavig, and the other forty-nine State Mothers. These hundred singers, a third of the group which sang at the New York World's Fair on June 24 and 25, were invited by the American Mothers Committee, whose able and gracious President is Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, to provide musical selections at the luncheon. Five numbers were rendered: "America the Beautiful," 'Dear Land of Home," "'Give Me Your 572 Tired, Your Poor," "No Man Is an Island," and '"You'll Never Walk Alone," with Melva Barborka, soprano, Louise Pratt, harpist, and Clara Neu, accompanist. Mrs. Barnes typifies the ideal Singing Mother conductor. She conducted the numbers in an impressive but restrained way which focused the attention on the glorious music which poured forth. No applause was allowed between the numbers, but an encore "Come, Come, Ye Saints" was called for, followed by a standing ovation from the densely standing audience. The Singing Mothers were grouped at the back of the dais and hidden by elegant draperies which parted to reveal the Singing Mothers. A backdrop depicting a rainbow set off the four rows of Singing Mothers in their white blouses. The ballroom presented a Relief Society Singing Mothers at the Awards Luncheon For the American Mother of the Year Waldorf-Astoria, New York City, May 8th The conductor Mrs. Ellen Barnes stands in the center (in dark dress); Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President, American Mothers Committee, Inc., is seated at the left of the WaldorfAstoria sign; seated at the right of Mrs. Lewis is the American Mother of the Year, Mrs. Cora Stavig of Sioux Falls, South Dakota: Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and a Director of the American Mothers Committee, is seated third from the left in the second row. The Singing Mothers in the picture are Relief Society members from New York and New Jersey. Beautiful rainbow setting with each of the tables, seating ten, being ringed by rainbow-colored candles. There were four graduated rows of officers and honored guests seated on the dais. A highlight of the luncheon was the Procession March of the Mothers, each carrying a candle. In addition to honoring American Mothers, special citations were made to "Three American Patriots": Mr. Russell De Young, Chairman of the Board, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company; Mr. Conrad Hilton, President, Hilton Hotels and Hilton International; and Mr. Frank F. Samford, Chairman of the Board, Liberty National Life Insurance Company. President Belle S. Spafford has served on the Board of Directors of the American Mothers Committee Inc. For eight years. Mrs. G. Stanley McAllister, Chairman of Music, is the wife of the President of the New York Stake; and Mrs. David J. Wilson, a VicePresident, is the wife of Judge David J. Wilson, and was formerly a member of the Relief Society General Board. The attractive program includ- 573 AUGUST 1964 ed the following information on Relief Society: The one hundred-voice Relief Society Singing Mothers Chorus singing at this Rainbow Awards Luncheon is from adjacent metropolitan areas of the New York and New Jersey Stakes of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are a segment of the large Singing Mothers Chorus of Relief Society women that will present four concerts at the New York World's Fair June 24 and 25. Director of the chorus is Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, graduate of the New England Conservatory of Music, and concert pianist, teacher and choral conductor of Washington, D. C. There were eighteen women present when Relief Society was organzied in Nauvoo, Hlinois, in 1842. Today there are 262,000 members of this organization in 6,353 chapters in fiftytwo countries of the world. Almost half of these chapters have Singing Mothers Choruses, with a combined total of 42,000 singers. For special programs and concerts, the singers in several chapters may be brought together as a combined Singing Mothers Chorus such as is singing today. Music, especially the song of the heart, is an integral part of the Relief Society program, and is regarded as indispensable to the cultural development, spiritual growth, and joy of Relief Society members. Honorary Presidents of the American Mothers Committee are Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Mrs. Daniel A. Poling. A statue of "The Mother" by Avard Fairbanks is_ presented each year to the Mother of the Year. This year the presentation was made by Dr. G. Roy Fugal, Chairman of the Advisory Committee and son of Mrs. Lavina C. Fugal, Utah Mother of the Year in 1955, who was chosen American Mother of that year. The Evening and Morning of the First Day Carolle Denton | look into the dark of night, My eyes wakeful for revealed light. The midnight be my soul's release, And sunrise tell me thou art peace. The shadows now on every slope Are lessening, and | gain hope That thou wilt measure and wilt find More light within my life, my mind. Thy sun came near in time of youth, And touched the days of life with truth. The rays that reached my heart have told Thy love... In syllables of gold. Has faded all the shades of night. Thou art the sunshine and the peace That bring my soul a bright release. 574 | look to find the dawning light x Mister Lewis and the Ravens Part I Mir Lewis was the only man in that pioneer community in Southern Utah, who was called Mister. All the rest wore a kindred sort of title — Brother. The lilt of their phrases may not have matched in cadence, accent, or guttural or nasal twang with those of their townsmen; but that distinctive title of Brother denoted a consanguinity not racial, not linguistic, but theological. Mister Lewis, therefore, was not to be identified with the other males of the settlement. Quite obviously he was the odd one. First, he had no wife or child. Second, he was not a professed Christian. In addition, he lived on the valley side of town, in the midst of his fields; whereas the rest of the inhabitants lived in a compactly planned gridiron of lots and blocks and fences and ditches. Their contiguous living tended to stylize them. They conformed to a pattern believed safer, saner, and more economical than was usually practiced in frontier lands. Mister Lewis did not conform. If you had met any man thereabouts you could tell after a short conversation and a scrutiny of his hat and shoes whether he was from Dixie, Sanpete, Orderville, or Iron County. But if you met Mister Lewis you would have guessed, rather incorrectly, that he was a "Sydney Duck" or a refugee from an area of global unrest afar off — ousted, as the oldtimers expressed it. His ways were of the hermit — offish best described him. One could not determine precisely 575 AUGUST 1964 that he had crossed the road to avoid a greeting, but somehow he was on the opposite side, passing almost stealthily where but a moment ago he was approaching head on. His eyes veiled his thoughts, his seclusion obliterated his past. * * K K AN aproned, bonneted woman stood at her gate hoping at last to stay Mister Lewis in his march toward the fields. As she saw him coming now, of course across the way, she wanted to open the gate and run to him with open arms, as one might toward a long lost child. But if her impulse was to cry to him gratitude deep and reverent, her feet remained embedded in the soil. His demean held her in her own dooryard. She could not ascertain whether he had noticed her, or even knew that this was her house. He shambled on, peering into his puzzling past, remote and inaccessible. The woman believed she must do something immediately to get his attention or he would be beyond hailing sound. Too late now to run after him, she thought, so she called loudly, "Mister Lewis! Thank you for bringing your cow here every morning and night! The milk was all little Hebe could keep on his stomach!" The inexorable pace of Mister Lewis plagued her. His only acknowledgment that he had heard her was to flick a stone from his path with a stick he carried. The woman accepted this vague response as more than was to be expected of him. At least he knew she was indebted to him. She must think of some 576 way to repay his kindness. He moved forward now with a vigor much as if he followed a plow. His thoughts remained illusive and uninterrupted. She glanced toward the earth a foot or two along the fence line. There was a hollow there, a smoothed-out spot where the red sand had become a path for a pail of milk. It was this hollow that bore direct connection with Mister Lewis. As the woman thought about it she could not understand how a man as remote in his thinking and as reluctant to converse as Mister Lewis was, could have found out, in the first place, that her seven children were down with diphtheria. How he found out was not her business, but it seemed most unusual. This, too, before the orange flag of quarantine was nailed to her gate to cry its message. However, after that information had seeped through to him, he became a person of determination. The fatherless children could not get out of bed to care for themselves, then, obviously, someone must aid them. As he was mortally afraid of the disease that daily sent homemade varieties of caskets to the cemetery, he could not bring himself to touch the gate, let alone go inside the house. His plan of helpfulness, then, must be one worked from a very safe distance. He rightly guessed that fresh food was desperately needed. After multiple schemes had _ been weighed, he had solved it all by driving his milk cow across the fields to the town, toward the homesteader's gate. Across his shoulder were slung two tin buckets, recently fashioned by himself. They resembled coal scuttles in size and shape; however covers were welded on with little beads of solder in a bumpy decoration along the joinings. The spouts were uncovered. It was through each tapered opening that the milk was received in practiced jets from the source of supply, and from which it flowed when the vessel was tipped forward. In true scuttle fashion, a horizontal handle, much resembling a dresser drawer pull, aided in the transfer of milk from one bucket to another. Mister Lewis had designed these unorthodox milk cans sometime previously, when he found that the covers to his regular cans kept getting lost or dented. Now he had a chance to prove his inventiveness. THE first day of his proposed beneficence saw him ushering his cow along the valley roads toward the settlement. As before stated, his milk buckets were slung over his shoulder, one in front, the other dangling down his back. Townspeople whom he passed said Mister Lewis looked as if he were a dairy on the hoof. This time they were right. His reasoning was that it was easier to take the milk to the homesteader in this manner than to fill the buckets with milk on his property and then trudge with it slopping out the spout all across lots. Besides, a certain saving in feed was guaranteed. Ditch banks were overgrown with luxuriant lucern tufts which afforded excellent forage. Such bounty from private fields was considered pubMISTER LEWIS AND THE RAVENS lic property. A leisurely return, after the milking, afforded abundant energy for another milking. As Mister Lewis approached his goal that first day, he bethought himself to gain the attention of those within the house without actually going to the door and knocking upon it. From his past he recalled a halloo, a sort of wail, a screech in three syllables, a blood-curdling cry. He drew a deep breath and tried it. As he had not voiced this alarm since he was in the American Civil War, the result startled even himself. Instantly, the homesteader opened her door with the frightened question of what added catastrophe was upon her now! When Mister Lewis saw her he ceased his signal of arrival and halted the cow. He put one of his buckets on the ground near the fence and placed the other near the animal. As his head ducked to the flank of the cow and his hands grasped the udder, he half shouted to the amazed woman still standing in the open doorway, "Just heard you have sickness. Ill come by night and morning with some milk. Leave the bucket on your side of the fence." That was all he said. The woman said, "'Mister Lewis, you are a good man." She turned toward her door. And went in. She closed it softly behind her. The fever-ridden children saw that their mother was crying. Perhaps that awful yelling outside was too much for her, they thought. However, they knew that their mother had never been afraid of anything in the whole wide world. Weakness in- 577 AUGUST 1964 duced by contagion proved too much for prolonged contemplation. No one asked her what was the matter. Out by the gate all was silent except for the metallic zing of the milk as it rhythmically struck the spout of the bucket. Left, right, left, right went the forceful stream into the deepening liquid. When the level showed to the spout, Mister Lewis arose from his crouched position and gently lifted his offering and carried it to the empty pail by the fence. He tilted the container, controlled it by the handle at the back, and let the milk run into the waiting spout. As the stream dwindled, he jiggled the bucket to free the last drops, then gently slid the full bucket under the lowest pole of the fence. With a business-like motion, he picked up his empty bucket, clicked his tongue at the cow, and grasped the rope which was attached to her halter. Without a backward glance or a repeated yell, he turned and went to his house. THE woman knew how long it took to milk a cow. When enough time had elapsed she went out of her house and walked toward her gate. Already Mister Lewis was beyond earshot. She leaned forward toward the steaming milk. She grasped the handle of the bucket, steadied it with her other hand, and dragged it toward her to clear the pole of the fence. She hefted it off the ground and carefully balanced it so that noi a drop would fall. She carried it into the house. This pattern of approach, yell, 578 milking, under-the-fence procedure, and carry to the house went on day after day, morning and night, until the children were strong again and until they grew to expect the warning cry and the delicious milk. Weeks passed. Mister Lewis never failed them. As one crisis after another came and went, the perpetual supply of food on the hoof was given the credit for recovery. Also, as this was a household of faith, an evening prayer was offered in behalf of Mister Lewis, who perhaps was not in the habit of praying for himself. As the mother leaned on the gate and glanced first at the passing figure of Mister Lewis, then at the hollow in the sand, she thought a prophecy to herself. She thought: May the ways of Providence guide my children to feed Mister Lewis when even the ravens have failed him. THE little boy simply could not open the screen door. The basket of eggs he carried was too heavy to be held in one hand while bracing the door with the other. Two factors were present, besides the heft of his load. The first was the coil spring on the door. The second was the perspiring palm of the pale child. It slipped off the knob every time he grasped it. His condition forbade a show of strength. His pride entered here, too. Humility and embarrassment came near felling him at his repeated failures. One month before this he had possessed strength to throw that spring as if it came from a watch. Now his hands sweated, his knees buckled, and his head swam. He tottered. The proprietor of the store, to which the spring and the door belonged had tried other sorts of wires, girlish in coiled power, but ever and ever he was calling after customers, "Shut the door!" Depending upon the sex or refinement of the offender, he added an expletive for emphasis. Only last week he had attached a spring, a gate-sized thing which he attached to the door with great screws. It bade fair to tear the door apart. To prevent this, the man had crossbraced it with two iron bars. The boy, Hebe by name, decided to set the eggs down, open the door, prop it open with his leg, then twist himself about, pick up the basket, and squeeze himself through. He hoped to do all this before anyone saw him. Therefore, with his plan in mind, he rested, paused, drew a deep breath, wiped his trembling fingers across his shirt, hitched up his pants, and turned to grasp the door handle. He jerked with his whole weight and strength. The door loosened first from the top corner, then reluctantly from the lower edge. The boy inserted his knee in the space then shouldered in his body. The bear trap was open at last. He turned himself about to pick up the basket of eggs. They were nowhere in sight! He cried out involuntarily. He squeezed himself out of the door and it shot to a close behind him. He took a step or two to the end of the porch. There was his basket as if it had taken legs and walked! He picked it up and turned to try the door again. He looked about him to make sure no one was near. MISTER LEWIS AND THE RAVENS This time he put the basket next to the frame of the door where he could see it at every move. At this try he knew more exactly how much strength to use. He opened the thing, put his knee in, and stooped to grasp the basket. As he did so, a pair of manured boots cast a shadow at his feet. As if caught in the act, the man straightened up and dusted off his pants leg with the hand that had almost grasped the basket. The boy knew who had moved the eggs the first time. The squinted, crafty glint in the prankster's eyes matched his shiftless gait and his asthmatic gurgle. He was self-satisfied at having caused mischief to one who could not possibly pay in kind. He became emboldened as the boy, in speechless surprise, stepped aside to let him pass. In doing so, the lad lost his leverage on the spring and the door banged shut in a volume of sound that shook the walls. At that instant the tormentor opened the door and stepped inside. As he did so he threw a hook latch into an eye of a screw. The boy did not see this motion, but proceeded again to attempt an entrance. His tug at the handle brought the most startling of results. First, from within came a great horse laugh of triumph. The boy determined to give up his errand and return home. He picked up his basket, but at a deafening sound of fury from within, from quite another voice, he paused stupefied. He peered through the two thicknesses of rusted screen. He was fascinated by the promise of tumult and catastrophe. (To be concluded) AMONG many of the blessings of being a stake board member is the privilege of going to Relief Society General Conference each fall. Our stake was organized in October 1956. We had just missed being able to attend conference. Immediately we made plans for the following year. We were ready to leave early on a Saturday morning. Friday evening a telegram arrived telling us that conference was cancelled because of the flu epidemic. Another long year to wait. Now each year we make plans in November for the coming trip the next fall. Board members make plans early, always using the positive approach. When a new member comes on the board, she is asked to plan to go to Salt 580 Marjorie M. Reeve President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society Lake City for the Relief Society Annual General Conference. Traveling a round trip of 2500 miles in a car is about the best way to get acquainted with one another. The trip takes two days each way. It is looked forward to with anticipation, to meeting friends—yes, but most of all to be spiritually fed. What a thrill it is to kneel in prayer night and morning with these sisters. The driver knows how careful she must be. We have, indeed, a precious group. We are always busy doing something. Eating is such a pleasant, fattening pastime for women, and believe me, we do plenty of it! We plan it for weeks. Hot postum, bouillon, chocolate, soup, crackers, cheese, tomatoes, car- rot and celery sticks, sandwiches, chips and dip, and fruits of all kinds. Well, you name it, we take it. One year a board member was expecting her ninth child and was unable to make the trip. She colored hard-boiled eggs and put our names on them. Easter in October! We felt so appreciative that we carefully peeled the eggs and sent the shells back to her, arranging them in her cleverly decorated carton. Last year one ward bazaar was to be held soon after our return. We crocheted two afghans while riding to and from Utah. If a sister became ill from looking down while working, she soon found herself driving, so the other five could work. No shirkers are allowed to make the trip. The second morning at 7:30 A. M. We were going through a small town in Colorado, just two blocks ahead of us was a 60-mile sign. The driver started to resume speed, and soon we heard a siren (the only time we have been stopped). The policeman was overcome at seeing five women busy at work with materials spread all over the car. He just cautioned us to drive carefully, and wished us a safe journey. We were so impressed with this courtesy that on the way home we wanted to thank him. It was noon when we arrived at the police station and the policemen were home to lunch. We explained to the receptionist that we wished to thank the officer, not knowing this small town had more than two or three on duty. Each rider naturally gave a different description of the officer. The confused receptionist phoned for the OUR BOARD GOES TO CONFERENCE chief, as she seemed to think he might fit the officer whom we so feebly described. He arrived in due time, probably leaving a hot meal, As soon as he got out of the car we knew he was not the man in question. We have often wondered if our officer friend may have been rebuked because of his kindness to us, and our desire to reciprocate. Songs have been composed, plans for the Relief Society year made, and once a complete PTA skit program was organized. We have learned a great deal as the years have passed. For instance, at first our songs after the first line or two were finished with la, la, la, all wishing we could remember the words. Now we take song sheets, pamphlets, and songbooks. Our singing has improved tremendously. We have learned, when leaving on a Sunday, how far we must travel before stopping for sacrament meeting. Our first theology lesson is given in the car, and a testimony meeting follows. We always plan an evening in the temple. The first year that I sat in the temple with these dear sisters, I cried most of the time. It is indeed a thrill to be able to sit in the house of the Lord with sisters with whom you work so closely and love so dearly. THE return trip is most inspirational. As we drive up through the scarlet-covered mountains, our hearts are overflowing with the glorious things we have been told, the inspired program for the coming year, the well-portrayed playlets, the beautiful reception. All these have filled our hearts. The board members stand outside the Tabernacle for hours to be able to 581 AUGUST 1964 attend the Church General Conference. I actually weep when thinking of the testimony it gives those who have always lived in the mission field. I pondered, did I truly appreciate this while I lived in the Bee Hive State? A long dream has now come true. Our stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are going to be able to attend Relief Society General Conference in 1964 as a group! We are going to sing Wednesday morning at the Officers Meeting. Plans have been made— temple excursions, a planned trip to the Brigham Young University, and General Conference. Yes, we must keep busy. We plan to have a stake opening social on the chartered train. Each ward and branch will present a part. It will be conducted on the order of a road show, going from car to car. Some husbands and children are going, as they are new converts and will be sealed. What a wonderful wedding we can all attend. If you wish to strengthen your stake board, go to conference. Partake, as we do, of this great and glorious program. Listen to our dear presidency. The sisters in your stake need this strength you receive, don't deprive them of it. Yes, our board goes to Relief Society Conference. We couldn't afford to miss it. We need to be spiritually fed, we need to have our batteries recharged. What a thrill it is! But the biggest thrill is to return and kneel in prayer with your family and thank the Lord for the safe trip, and the support of the loved ones left at home. Our Singing Mothers Pep Song (Lively March Tune) We're gonna — go, go, go to Salt Lake City. Come on, Singing Mothers, let's go — — We're gonna sing, sing, sing in Salt Lake City, Relief Society Conference, you know — — With great anticipation, with plans and preparation, We'll have a wonderful time — — We'll have to practice often, our husbands we will soften To get out ev'ry nickel and dime — We're gonna go, go, go to Salt Lake City, Come on, Singing Mothers, lets go — —! Some eyes see beauty where others do not think it can be found. For what are you looking? There is the great difference. 582 — Zara Sabin ~—_— 2 oS. Ae Woman's Ramona W. Cannon RUTH LYONS has received the highest "Golden Mike'? Award from McCall's Magazine for her outstanding service to children's hospitals throughout the United States, in providing them with therapeutic playroom and playground equipment, bought by funds secured through an appeal over radio and television stations. Other award winners were Marty Camp for her service in the field of education; Ella Harllee for her program ''Focus on World Affairs'; Lucy Jarvis for an enlightening program on world affairs; Helen Kimball for her direction of a program to awaken' public awareness of the plight of displaced children; Marlene Sanders for her broadcasts on community problems; and Alice Weston for her broadcasts on alcoholism. THE PRESIDENT'S Commission on the Status of Women in the United States has reported that one in ten women does not marry; one of three workers in the economy is a woman; and more than half of all women in the fortyfive to fifty-four age bracket are in paid employment. GINA BACHAUER, a renowned Greek pianist, is winning international acclaim and adding to her laurels as one of the greatest of living pianists. The vigor of her technique makes her a ''dazzling performer,"' and her repertoire ranges from Mozart to Stravinsky. She has appeared in hundreds of concerts throughout the world. In March she appeared in the Salt Lake Tabernacle with the Utah Symphony Orchestra in a rendition of Bach's "St. Matthew Passion." 5 RISE STEVENS, famed mezzo soprano, has been appointed one of two general managers of the new Metropolitan Opera National Company. This is a joint project of the Metropolitan Opera and Kennedy Center in Washington, D. C., designed to give America's best young singers performing experience, and people throughout the country the opportunity of hearing live opera of top quality professional performance. For the 1965-66 season, 220 performances have already been planned. MARIE SKORA, wife of the American Consul General in Caracas, Venezuela, has presented a showing of woodcuts and other etchings in several United States galleries, including the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D. C., and also in national art exhibits in several Venezuelan cities. Her work is considered of excellent artistic quality. FRAU ROSEMARIE STRAUSS, of Vienna, Austria, is a city planner who believes ''Clean cities are not enough. They must be full of beauty, too... A city must have a soul.'' She has campaigned for both cleanliness and beauty ever since her city began rebuilding itself out of the mass of rubble it became during World War II. During the International Congress of Town Clearing in Vienna, in April, the world's greatest flower show also opened there, in a grand park built especially for the occasion. EDITORIAL... Enlarge your souls toward each other, if you would do like Jesus... Bear with each other's feelings.... As you increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand, let them be enlarged toward others (from an address by the Prophet Joseph Smith to the Relief Society, April 28, 1842). A: has been said that compassion is that high intergrity of spirit which will not let one ''pass by on the other side'' when the shelter of one's presence is needed. There is no pathway of life so free from shadows that it does not require the light of a woman's face and the ministry of her willing hands. A recognition and an understanding of the problems, the disappointments, and the grief of others is necessary to the full and free exercise of compassion, for in true compassion one must enter the life of another, feel the sorrows of another, and say or do that which will make the burden lighter. Compassion is an awareness that ''pity and need make all flesh kin." After the feeling must come the doing, the giving, the bestowal of some element of healing and help. Often the mere presence of a sympathetic person in a place of trouble or sorrow can be of great benefit. It is as if the compassionate woman might be saying, "| am here. Lean a little on me. Let me do some of the lifting." Compassion can be expressed over distances through letters, telephone calls, gifts of books, and personal remembrances. One homebound woman, possessing neither physical strength nor financial resources, made telephone calls to other homebound sisters and offered compassionate solicitude and comfort in words of uplifting cheerfulness. Another sister, instead of saying ''| do not know of anyone who needs me," expressed a more discerning and sympathetic attitude. Knowing well that in mortal life someone always is in need, she accepted the personal responsibility of ''seeking out objects of charity." Her swift and eager footsteps brightened many doors, and she bestowed freely her gifts of food and Volume 51 August 1964 Number 8 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e@ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer raiment, and the comfort of her presence. For her, and for other compassionate women, these Biblical promises apply: For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.... Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel... Which hope we have as an anchor to the soul, both sure and steadfast (Hebrews 6:10, There is, perhaps, a most natural compassion when one kindly answers the needs of a loved one, for then the wellsprings of the heart flow freely from the deep fountains of family love or devoted friendship. It is a more difficult compassion that we must cultivate toward the stranger — toward one alien to us in circumstances or belief or habit. Then it is that our compassion must be widened and disciplined and partake of the spirit of the Good Samaritan who did not ask the name of the needy one upon the highway. Too much indifference toward the welfare of others is continually demonstrated before us. Many could be rescued from spiritual or physical harm by those who are so concerned for the welfare of others that they would, at every opportunity, be their brother's keeper, the one to come swiftly when help is needed. The gracious, compassionate woman has learned that among the Heavenly Father's family upon the earth, there are those in certain places along life's journey who stand in particular need of a woman's compassion. These are they who are at the beginning or at the end of life —— the children and the aged, for they are defenseless and wait before us in the pleading of their most vulnerable years., it is to them with special concern that the compassionate woman responds Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva Barlow Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles 17, 19). "in accordance with her nature.". — V. P. C. In Memoriam ALICE BITNER CASTLETON Mrs. Alice Bitner Castleton, a member of the General Board of Relief Society during the presidency of Amy Brown Lyman, from 1940 to 1945, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 23, 1964. She had, previous to her call to the Board, been a ward and stake Relief Society president and she gave freely of her devotion, knowledge, and Relief Society experience to the General Board, serving on committees for community activities and, especially, on the literature, social science, and plays and pageants committees. Sister Castleton is remembered with much love and appreciation by those who were her companion members of the Board. Her solicitude for the welfare of others and her ready willingness to be helpful in word and deed endeared her to friends and associates, and she is remembered as a lovely and devoted woman who exemplified the qualities which Relief Society women hope to achieve in their own lives. The General Board extends sympathy and love to the:-members of her large family and to her many friends whose lives have been enriched through association with Sister Castleton. Sequel Dorothy J. Roberts We have borne this sound before, This closing of brief childhood's door — First in his mother. Now in him The eighth year showed up, tall and trim, To turn the knob and take away The little lad of yesterday. His want once filled the emptied lap; Now perched on edge, he twirls his cap. Hushed, the siren of his "whys?" Resisting the rush of our goodbyes. Now, turn-about, our bread returns — Regret for each brief leaving, burns. Only his eyes need assurance, there Is no one like him, anywhere. Now, not as he had been, bereft, Heels drumming anguish as he left — Impelled, he lopes across the lawn, And with one longing look, is gone. 586 Notes to the Field The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 30 and October 1. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 30, from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 30, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 1, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 30, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Picture Kit for 1964-65 Theology Lessons Available A picture kit for use as a visual aid in presenting the theology lessons for 1964-65 is available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, price $1.00, plus 10c for postage. The kit consists of black and white pictures of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Newel K. Whitney, Lorenzo Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Orson Hyde, and Joseph F. Smith; and colored pictures of Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, and Edward Partridge. Visual Aid Packet Available for 1964-65 Literature Lessons Appropriate visual aids can be of great assistance to a class leader. If wisely used, they can enrich the lesson material by adding interest, strengthening a point, and clarifying an idea. They also can be used effectively in introducing or concluding a lesson. A picture packet of carefully planned visual aids for the 1964-65 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, 84601; or from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The cost is $3.50 postpaid, and the packet will be available September 1, 1964. It will contain eight sheets, consisting of a literature evaluation chart; portraits of three authors (Browning, Galsworthy, and Burns): reproductions of three paintings ("Tintern Abbey," The "Syndics" and "The Vigil"); and a Grecian urn. 587 Alice Gubler Sabin LLIE, you aren't eating your Lsupper." Mother looked at me in concern. I choked. "Really mother, I just can't seem to swallow tonight." Nancy eyed the food before her. "Me, too. How come your stomach gets all tied up in knots when you're excited?" "That's 'cause you're thinking too much, like me."' Tom reached for his fourth muffin. '""When I shut my eyes, I can just see the fish splashing and the sun shining on the water. I almost can't eat either, just thinking about it." "Now look here.'"' Daddy put down his fork. "We can't take a pack of starved coyotes along with us. You young ones better relax and eat your supper. You'll need energy to help finish packing. We're going to get an early start in the morning." "Don't urge them to eat," Grandma said. '"'There were times when I was a child that I'd get too excited to eat. Just the thoughts of going places did it to me."' We looked gratefully at Grandma. She always understood. We had plenty of energy to help finish loading. Daddy didn't 588 Z VG on SA need to worry. After all, ever since I could remember, we had been going to go to Yellowstone someday. It was going to be someday when Daddy had enough vacation time coming to make the trip worthwhile; and someday when there weren't too many bills to pay, and someday when Daddy and Mother didn't have special meetings to interfere, and a hundred and one other reasons. Well, believe it or not, that someday had actually arrived. It was no longer a dream but a reality. Daddy had rented the biggest camper he could get. It had two bedrooms, if you can call them rooms, one for Grandma, and one for Daddy and Mother. It had a gas refrigerator and stove and running water and — well just about all of the comforts of home. Daddy said he just loved to rough it. Nancy and Tom and I had sleeping bags. We wanted to sleep under the stars. Daddy put in a tent, 'just in case." I washed the supper dishes and Grandma wiped. "You're excited, too, aren't you, Grandma?" I grinned. "You only nibbled instead of eating." She winked at me. "Tom and your daddy don't need to think they're the only fishermen in the family. I reckon we women folks might even show them up a bit." The look on her face gave me a merry feeling. One thing troubled me about fishing. That was worms. Tom had a bait can full of them. I couldn't tell Grandma I'd never touched a worm. I'd have to figure out some natural way to get someone else to bait my hook. I don't believe Mother cared much for worms, either. She was packing embroidery work and gathering up some magazines to read. As she reached for her Relief Society Magazine, an unopened letter fell to the floor. She picked it up and looked at the postmark. The letter was two weeks old. Quickly she tore it open. For a minute I thought she was going to faint. She dropped into a chair and sat staring at the paper. It was an important letter, for sure. Mother straightened. '""Who put this inside my magazine?" She held out the letter like it was a document from the President of the United States. We all looked at each other. The air was very tense. "Ellie? Tom? Nancy?" As she looked at each of-us, we mutely shook our heads. Dappy cleared his throat. "I'm sorry, dear. I am the guilty one. I picked up the mail one day when I was on an errand. I was afraid of misplacing your letter, so I slipped it inside the magazine you had left in the car. I must have forgotten it." Whee! That let us three off the hook. "Is there any damage done?" Daddy asked. THE SOMEDAY VACATION "No. None at all.' Mother looked like she was going to cry. "We'll just have to postpone our vacation a couple of days, that's all." Two days! I wanted to howl. Tom and Nancy let out a wail. Grandma spoke up. 'Did somebody die, Janet?" Mother smiled weakly. 'No, nothing like that. I have an important meeting day after tomorrow, that's all." Well! It must be a Relief Society meeting! All of us knew from previous experience that when Mother had a Relief Society meeting to attend, nothing could turn her aside. Grandma wasn't one to be put off so easily. ""What is it, Janet? Are you the main speaker at the meeting?" "It is a special meeting for the Relief Society presidencies in the stake." Mother had herself under control. Calmly she turned to Daddy. "Jim, you've been wishing you could get away from the office long enough to fix the pasture fence and spray the wild parsnips. This will be a perfect time to do it." Turning to Nancy and me, she smiled. 'Do you girls remember the cute pink curtains we saw down town the other day? How would you like to get them tomorrow? I'll help you pretty up your room." We had wanted the curtains very much, but right now they didn't seem important. WANET." Daddy looked like a little boy as he approached mother. "Is this meeting so important that we have to change the family plans?" "All Church meetings are important, or they wouldn't be 589 AUGUST 1964 called." Her voice was very even. "Gee, Dad, that's a tough break for you." Tom plunged his hands deep into his pockets. ""To think of that camper going to waste for two whole days in our backyard." His voice quavered. "We have to learn to put first things first, Son. Now come on, all of you. Let's have family prayer and you can scamper off to bed. Sounds as if we've things to do tomorrow." We all kneeled down together and Daddy asked Grandma to pray. Grandma's' prayers' always sounded pretty direct. I thought I knew exactly what she had in mind when she said, "Help us all to see things in their true order of importance." Dappy and mother usually discussed things after we had gone to bed. Most of the time we went right off to sleep, but tonight we turned out our light and forgot to close our door. By being really quiet we could hear almost everything they had to say in the living room. Daddy said, ''But, Janet, if we postpone our vacation 2 couple of days we won't have time to go to Yellowstone. My vacation starts tomorrow." Mother sounded too cheerful. She said, "Then we can pick a place closer to home. Yeu'll get something accomplished around here, and we will save on expenses." "Oh, Ellie," Nancy sobbed. "Did you hear that? Not go to Yellowstone after we have waited all our whole lives!" I tried to comfort her. '"Nancy, I think Daddy is trying to help 590 Mother figure out some right way SO we can go." "But, Ellie, Daddy and Mother always agree on everything. They always do everything they're asked to do." "That's why everybody likes them." I said. "I guess they're the best people in the whole world besides Grandma. Nancy, let's go to Grandma's room and talk to her." We tiptoed down the dark hall. Mother was saying, 'Too many people use their families for an excuse for not taking Church assignments. I've always believed that when we do our duty in the Church our families are blessed, and we can enjoy them that much more." Daddy said, "You are right. The two are inseparable, but still there are times when choices must be made." "Sakes alive," Grandma whispered. We almost bumped into her sitting in her doorway. "Shhh!" she gathered us to her. 'Seems to me we've some figuring to do."" We snuggled against her. "Grandma, what are we going to do?" Nancy sobbed. "Hush, child. I'm_ thinking. Your mother wants to go to Yellowstone as much as any of us. She has so much loyalty that she doesn't know what to do with it all." "T wish she hadn't found that letter, then she would have been happy until we got back." "Yeah. Remember the time she forgot a meeting and the whole family went swimming. It was a blast!"" Tom whispered. "Tom! Where did you come from?" I asked. "I wasn't sleepy so I came to Grandma's room. It would take a written excuse from the King of England to keep mother from that meeting." "Not from the King, from the bishop," I said. "Ellie, that's it! You young ones scamper off to bed so we'll be ready to leave in the morning." Grandma fairly pushed us toward our rooms. Through the partition wall between our bed and Grandma's reading table, we could hear her dial her phone. We couldn't hear what she said. Minutes later there was a knock on the front door and we heard Daddy say, "Come in, Bishop, what a pleasant surprise to see you tonight." Nancy and I hurried out into the hall. Grandma and Tom were there ahead of us peering through the bannister into the living room. "Brother Sorenson," the bishop boomed, '"'the camper in your yard reminded me that you are going fishing. I have some fancy lures I thought you might like to try."" He put a little box on the table.. "That's mighty thoughtful of you, Bishop," Daddy said. "I guess we won't be leaving for a couple of days." "Couple of days!" There was surprise in the bishop's voice. "Understood you were going in the morning." "There's a Relief Society meeting Wednesday," Mother said. "Yes, I know. Haven't you a couple of counselors, Sister Sorenson?" THE SOMEDAY VACATION Mother hesitated. "Why, yes. But this is a presidents' meeting." "So it is. But, remember, there are three people in the presidency. Your counselors will be glad to go alone this time for this planning meeting. We must not make service in the Church a burdensome thing. When it is done right, it is very joyous. All our organizations are patterned after a perfect plan. Our. Families are part of this plan. It is built around them. Now, go with your family and have a happy vacation." "Thank you so much, Bishop. I will call Sister Hansen tonight." There was the happiness of a burden lifted, in Mother's voice. "My blessings go with you. We love you both for your faithfulness. Goodnight."" With a handshake, the bishop was gone. We were hugging each other in the dark. There was a moment's silence, then Mother said softly, '"Isn't it strange that he should come by tonight!" "Strange and wonderful," Daddy said. Mother sat down at the telephone and Daddy started for the hall. Swift as rabbits we fled for our rooms and into our beds. Daddy turned the hall lights on and came whooping up the stairs with a bound that shook the rafters. "Look out Yellowstone, here we come!" Bursting into our room, he gave us each a resounding goodnight kiss, and playfully tucked us in, including Grandma. 591 Gertrude Keeler [Address Delivered at the Magazine Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963] Our specific need, as Relief Society Magazine representatives, is to have facility in expressing pertinent ideas before our groups with appropriate, artistic, and well-chosen posters, charts, placards, or objects to add impressive selling points for the Magazine. Many of us feel a need for a clear, legible handwriting or for skill in the use of a simple and attractive printed alphabet. We may resort to stenciled or ruled lettering, but we may discover our finished product lacks variety and originality. It may appear squared, heavy, and uninteresting. A simple, workable alphabet done in freehand lettering is not difficult to do, is not stiff or formal, and is effective in arousing attention. I can almost hear someone say "I can't draw a straight line." Any skill requires some practice, so just be patient and keep trying. You will find in the illustration given here, a simple Gothic alphabet of capitals, small letters, and numbers. Also there are variations you might try. Guidelines can be drawn with ruler or yardstick for uniformity in height and proportion. These lines can be erased after the poster is finished. Art gum will not mar inked lettering. A general layout or arrangement of words and ideas for emphasis can be planned carefully to insure interesting and attractive designs. We should avoid a crowded appearance of letters or margins. Readability is important, so lettering should be simple and properly spaced. Room size and distance from speaker to group determine the size of the poster and the letters, spacing, and colors to be chosen. Strong contrasts between background and lettering make wording clear and distinct. Large posters and lettering, of course, are appropriate for large rooms. Pertinent words or thoughts to be emphasized can be painted in contrasting colors. Warm, advancing colors, such as red, yellow, or orange, are good for central ideas. Cool, receding colors are best for backgrounds, such as blue, gray, violet, soft green, black, and white. Plan the wording carefully to avoid trite, overworked, or superfluous words or designs or fussy decorations. Keep the message brief. The eye can read short sentences and single words at a glance. Lengthy, wordy posters are seldom read in their entirety. Choose thought-provoking statements. 592 AaBbCcDdEeFft GgHhliJjJKkKLIMm NnOoPpOgRrss It UuVvWwxx Yy Zz 1234567890 ABCDEFGHI ABCDEFGHISKLMNO ABCDEFGH Consider your poster as an over-all design with balanced units. Place the central ideas in a conspicuous place on the sheet. Pay attention to spelling, grammar, punctuation, and use of capitals. Do not mix capitals and small letters indiscriminately. Avoid extreme styles of lettering until a simple alphabet is mastered, then use your imagination and individuality to make posters distinctive. Simple, amusing cartoons are effective and can be worked out easily. See the April issue of the Instructor (1963) for an interesting article and instructions for drawing faces with a variety of expressions. From these suggestions, we might make animated figures representing Relief Society Magazine covers. Experiment, be creative. It is fun. Try it. 593 AUGUST 1964 POSTER MATERIALS 1. Paper A. Stiff 16-ply paper, size 22" x 28", about 15c per sheet. All colors available. B. Construction paper. Limited colors available. Size 18" x 28", about 10c per sheet. C. White butcher paper in a roll. Lightweight, useful and inexpensive. 2. Pens, erasers, etc. A. Wide felt tip pens. Standard colors, approximately 59c and 79c each. B. Speed ball pens, all sizes, 15c each. India ink 40c, pen holder 15c. C. Art gum eraser good for removing guidelines. D. Yardstick and foot ruler for guidelines. E. Wax crayons are good for construction and butcher paper posters. F. Show-card paint (opaque), all colors. Use with brush. This medium is more difficult to manage. \ J > Va | es AVAVA E N 2 AID Ee (Cs. Ne fENGADLORS 5Gl EXERCISE 1 Copy these letters, using guidelines and following numbered strokes as indicated. QR EXERCISE 2 Draw faces in these balloons, using guidelines for eyes, nose, mouth. Guidelines should be erased later, when faces are drawn. EXERCISE 3 Read this message. Reword for a poster. Use concise, effective statements. "The Relief Society Magazine should be in every home. It is helpful for homemakers. It has interesting articles, poetry, and stories to interest the family. Are you a subscriber?" 594 inside and out AUGUST 1964 Raw Apple Cookies Florence L. Mecham 1 c. Butter or shortening 2 c. Sugar 4 eggs 4 c. Flour 3 c. Grated raw apples (or put them through food grinder) 4 tsp. Soda. 4 tsp. Cinnamon Cream shortening, then add sugar, and cream until well blended, add unbeaten eggs and mix with mixer on medium speed for about one minute: Add one cup of flour and grated apples. (Don't drain the juice off the apples, add it, too.) Turn oven to 350° to preheat. Add the remaining 3 cups of flour, soda, and spices, then vanilla. Mix well with spoon. Add raisins and walnuts. Drop small teaspoonsful onto well-greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° for 12 to 15 minutes. (For chocolate cookies, add 3 tbsp. Cocoa.) This recipe is also nice for loaf or layer cake. Yield: 8 dozen medium-sized cookies. 596 2 tsp. Allspice 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Chopped raisins 1 c. Walnuts Butter Mints Dorothy Scott 3 c. Sugar 1 sq. Butter (1% Ib.) coloring 1 c. Hot water dash salt peppermint flavor Stir sugar, butter, hot water, and salt together in a pan and bring to a boil. Cover with a lid for 3 minutes. Take off lid and wash down sides of pan with brush dipped in water. Cook without stirring to 248°, on a clear day. Pour on buttered slab and cool enough to handle. Add few drops flavoring and coloring and pull until it loses gloss. Stretch into a rope and cut into pieces. Store in an airtight can. relly Fils useful too! Shirley Thulin Pillows, pillows, pillows! Some are pretty, some useful, some just for fun. Make these easy pillows and _ start right away to enjoy them. HANDY TRAVEL PILLOW The neatest trick in a long while is this pillow bag made of ribbons. Toss it on your bed as a pillow with pajamas inside, make it as a welcome gift, or as a traveling aid. The pillow bag may be used as a laundry bag for nylons and lingerie, as well as a daytime hiding place for pajamas. It is convenient for traveling, holding clean clothing on the way and light laundry when returning. Materials Needed: To make the pillow bag, you will need 9 yards of grosgrain ribbon 1 inch wide, and 6 yards of woven edge taffeta ribbon 3 inches wide. Cut the 3-inch ribbon into four strips 144 yards long. Cut the 1-inch ribbon into 6 strips 14% yards long. Procedure: Starting with the narrower ribbon, top stitch the strips together lengthwise at the edge, alternating widths. Now sew the outside edges together to form a tube. Gather one end tightly together, and attach a six-loop bow made from one of the remaining 1144 yard lengths of the 1-inch ribbon. At the other end, fold the top narrow ribbon strip in half and _ stitch on the inside, making a hem to hold the remaining 114 yards of grosgrain ribbon which is used as the drawstring (figure 1). SICK-ROOM PILLOWS Pillows can play an important part in the caring for a person who has to remain in bed for awhile. There are several different sick-room pillows. All of them should be made with removable covers, for easy cleaning. Back-rest Pillows. There are two back rest pillows which are handy to put at the patient's back while she sits up. The first one is a pillow arm chair, and should be made of a sturdy fabric such as denim. You could also use a heavy plastic material. Make back first. From a piece of material about 22 inches wide and 26 inches long, cut a rectangle, rounding the top two corners (figure 2). This is the front of the back rest. Now cut a similar rectangle, only make it 81 inches long (figure 3). This is the back of the back-rest. Cut 2 triangles about 26 inches long and about 12 inches wide at the base (figure 4). This forms the sides of the back-rest. The bottom of the back-rest is a piece 22 inches long by 12 inches wide (figure 5). 22 ee or = = _ ~ / x Cut 1 20 Cut 1 31" (fig. 2) (fig. 3) K front of back rest back of back rest (Fig. Ay a 0 26 = 22/'___y? /Cut 2 | Cut 1 12" (fig. 5) | bottom of back rest 597 —12— side of back rest AUGUST 1964 Sew the two straight sides of the triangle pieces to the 26-inch sides of the front piece. Now join the back of the back-rest to the front and sides by sewing it along the slanting side of the triangle and along the rounded top of the front of the back-rest. Now sew the bottom of the back-rest in place, leaving an opening for the stuffing. Be sure to take deep seams all around. Stuff this pillow very firmly, or use a solid piece of foam rubber. Make arms of back rest. Cut four rectangles of fabric 26 inches long and 7 inches wide. This makes the sides for two arms (figure 6). You will now need 2 pieces 66 inches long and about 8 inches wide. These can be pieced. They form the top, front side, bottom, and back side of the arms. K >! A Ly 26" i Cut 4 | (fig. 6) arms of back rest Stitch one arm together by beginning at one corner of the folded rectangle. Begin also at the end of the long strip. Now sew the strip all around the four sides of the rectangle (figure 7). Now sew the two ends of the long piece together. Next, sew the other rectangle on the other edge of the long piece in the same way, leaving an opening for the stuffing. Make the other arm the same way. Now you have two arms, or pillows, which are long and narrow. Join them at a corner edge to the back rest with heavy thread in an overcasting stitch (figure 8). (fig. 7) making the arms for the back rest joining the pieces of the back rest 598 Triangle back rest. This pillow serves somewhat the same purpose as the arm-chair pillow, only it is a simpler one. You will need one rectangle 26 inches long and 25 inches wide, and one rectangle 31 inches long and 25 inches wide. These make the front and back. Cut a triangle the same as for the arm-chair pillow, also a bottom. Stitch this pillow together the same as the back-rest for the armchair pillow. Also stuff this pillow very firmly. Elbow Pillows. It is very comforting to a bed patient to have small soft pillows on which to rest arms or legs. These can be used to vary a person's position while lying down, when the patient is too sick or too weak to hold his arms or legs in various positions by himself. These pillows can be placed under the elbows, knees, or at the back, or under the person's neck. They are simply made of a soft material, such as flannel, or other soft cotton, and are made in various sizes, not over 14 inches square. They must not be stuffed very full. Old nylons or shredded foam rubber make good stuffing for these pillows. Square ones are best, but they can also be round. KNEELING PILLOWS If you are one who still scrubs her floor on hands and knees, or if you kneel in your garden, you will enjoy using this pillow. Use a strong fabric, such as upholstering fabric, or denim. It should be made of a dark-colored cloth. You can buy some squares of foam rubber which make ideal stuffings for these pillows. You can also stuff them with used nylons, or other soft materials. Make your kneeling pillows about 24 inches square. This means, then, that you will need two squares about 25 inches square, allowing for seams. Now you will need a long piece (which can be pieced) 100 inches long and about 5 or 6 inches wide. Sew this pillow together the same as the arm pieces to the arm-chair pillow. FANCY BED AND SOFA PILLOWS Whether square, round, triangle, rectangle, or heart-shaped, fancy pillows always add a certain pleasure to a bedroom or living room. These pillows also make wonderful gifts, either for birthdays, Mother's Day, or for a shower. In choosing the fabric for your fancy pillows, remember that the prettier, the better, so satins, taffetas, velvets, or bright corduroys are good. The colors can be bright or pastel, mixing or matching, and the sizes can vary from tiny ones about 8 inches square to large ones 40 inches square. To make a professional looking pillow, stitch a cording all around your pillow. This is very easy to do and will add greatly to the appearance of the finished product. You will need a heavy string, or you can buy cording at drapery departments. Cut a narrow strip of your fabric about one-half inch wide, or more narrow, for daintier pillows. Using your zipper foot, machine stitch the strip around the string, sewing very close to the string, and leaving the seam on, to be sewed in with the pillow seam (figure 9). Stitch [ '\ a (fig. 9) string making cording When you sew the cording on the pillow, be sure to put the covered string part inside between the two right sides of the pillow back and front, and the raw edges of the seam edge even and horizontal with the edges of the pillow material. Then pin or baste so that you will stitch along the same stitches that you sewed the string inside the material with. Thus, when you turn the pillow to the right side, the cording will be neat all around the edge of the top of the pillow. You can also put a cording all around the bottom edge if you desire (figure 10). Cording (fig. 10) THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Shiny Satin Pillows. Buy different shades of satin that complement your room, and shades that pick up the hints of color in the wallpaper, or in the drapes, or even in your favorite painting. Make these pillows about 16 inches square. If you want to make the cording around the edge, it will add attractiveness. Sometimes a cording of a contrasting color gives a pleasing accent. You also could sew a fringe of matching or contrasting color in with the seam. Stuff these pillows with discarded nylons, and make them sturdy and plump. If you want an even fancier satin pillow, cut the top square of the pillow larger and then shirr it before sewing it to the back square. Make a Tube Pillow. A very useful and attractive pillow for your couch is the tube pillow. You will want two just alike, one for each end of the sofa. You can make them of corduroy or velvet. Just make the pillow as long as your sofa is deep, so that it will fit along the end, by the arm of the sofa. You will need a piece of material as wide as your sofa is deep, usually about 22 to 26 inches, by 22 inches wide. The pillow should be about 7 inches in diameter. You will need two round pieces 7 inches in diameter for the ends. Stitch the rectangle on to the two round pieces, making a tube with the ends. You can sew a tassel to the center of the round end, if desired (figure 11). (fig. 11) tube pillow BABY PILLOWS These pillows are attractive and appropriate to give at a baby ~hower. They are just for show, since, in most cases, it is better for babies not to sleep on pillows. These pillows may be placed in the corner of the crib or carriage. The favorite shape for a 599 AUGUST 1964 baby pillow is a heart (figure 12) but it could be round or square as well. Make a pillowcase or cover, to slip over the pillow. This should be made of a soft dainty cotton, or batiste. Pure white is prettiest, but it could be a pale pink, or blue, or yellow. It should not be very big. About twelve to sixteen inches square is a good size. Draw tiny flowers, dainty birds, or other designs on the front of the pillowslip. You can trace these designs from magazine pictures, or buy an iron-on transfer pattern. Embroider the design with pastel shades of cotton thread or white. Stitch lace or satin ribbon where desired. The back of the pillow is made of two pieces 7 inches by 12 inches, if the pillow is going to be twelve inches square. Along one of the twelve-inch edges on each piece, make a tiny hem (figure 13). 7}! X 12e! Small hem (fig. 13) y baby pillow Now, putting right sides together, sew both back pieces to the front piece by lapping over the tiny hemmed edges in the center, making sort of a split down the back (figure 14). Fig. 14) back of pillow cover Now turn right sides out and stitch two or three tiny white snaps along the split to keep it closed until wash day. Make the back of the pillowslip the same style no matter what shape you are making the pillow. Make the pillow of white cotton, and make it the same shape as the pillowslip, only a little smaller so the cover can go on easily. SAD OR SUNNY PILLOWS This is a-child's just-for-fun pillow, but it also is practical. During the day it holds his pajamas. On one side of this pillow is a bright sunny face and on the other side is a sad face. The child will love to display the face which best suits his mood for the day. After seeing this cheerful pillow, each morning, the sunny face will most always win out. Make a funny face. This pillow can be made of unbleached muslin or other suitable material. Draw a big circle for the pillow and make big comical features, a sad face for the back, and a happy one for the front (figure 15). Make the eyes and the mouth large. You can make the features from suitable colored felt or paint them on with your textile paints; embroider the face with six-strand cotton thread. Place the front and back together, right sides together, and, beginning at the eye, pin along the seam line around to just at the opposite eye. Now take a strip of brown or black felt three inches wide and cut a fringe about two inches deep for the hair (figure 16). Place this with the fringe THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT (fig. 15) sad or sunny pillows inside between the front and back of the pillow and continue to pin the seam on around, catching the unfringed edge of the felt. Machine stitch all around, leaving an 8-inch opening at the top of the head to push the child's pajamas into. You can sew snaps along the opening or a zipper. M If you would like to use yarn in place of the felt fringe, sew 2-inch lengths of yarn along a one-inch strip of cloth and sew the same as with the felt fringe. Ce (fig. 16) A Plea for Loveliness Alice Lowe Corbett Oh, bid me not turn loveliness away, Nor rob the heart of time to heed the cries Of paeans caroling above the day— Sweet, haunting melody that never dies. Oh, why would you entreat me not to sing? The voice that beckons me, shall it be still When through the night each bright remembering Bursts with unyielding strength the bonds of will? The spirit soars. Through eager eyes of hope Time's bitter trials loom as kin to earth; Bare, hulking shadows, transient in their scope As frost, that sun-killed, flees the soul's new birth. Beauty is truth, eternal, come what may; Nor life, nor loveliness, shall pass away. 601 So Much for So Little NeTeNS there was unused seed in the cup when I cleaned my parakeet's cage, I began throwing it in the back yard for the birds. When snow arrived, I put a board I could easily sweep off near the door and added extra seed and bread to the diet. When I go out each morning, no birds are in our tree, nor can I see any nearby, yet the door will scarcely be closed before a colorful variety arrives to reward me. No longer is dishwashing a prosaic task. Through the window while I work, I watch birds happily pecking, hopping, flying; hear their gay chittering, sense their gratitude for my small thoughtfulness. Often our smallest kindness is manifoldly rewarded. If, in no other way, we are rewarded by a feeling of well-being. Longfellow expressed the idea beautifully in Evangeline: '""That which the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain." Trifles "Trifles make the sum of life" (Charles Dickens). Pecs of us has moments of high beauty we would like to live again. Each of us has moments of bitter, black despair when we must seek the only help that can sustain us. Mostly, though, our days are filled with trifles. Let us add the trifles of a day and find what makes the sum of life. For salutation, take the dew-touched rose you picked this morning to enjoy its fragileness and fragrance, remembering its name is "Peace." For surprise, take the call from a friend who, knowing of a joy that has come to you, just wants to say she shares your happiness. For chuckles, take the words of a precious little boy, just turned six. He haunts the school grounds, a block away from home, so anxious is he for that first great day; yet dashes home to ask excitedly, "Mommy, did you remember to get me in a car pool to ride to school?" For loyalty, take the tiny brown Chihuahua who always looks at you with eyes full of devotion, never seeing faults that human beings do, and yet is ready to forgive your thoughtlessness beyond the "seventy times seven." For satisfaction, take a look at bottles filled this day with sun-gold peaches that make the taste buds tingle in anticipation of wintertime enjoyment. For refreshment, take the gentle soothing rain that covered everything with freshness after weary weeks of dust and heat. For color, take the rainbow arched across the sky at sunset. For benediction, take your evening call to Mother to hear about her day's events and learn tomorrow's plans. To her "goodnight," she adds, "'God bless you, dear." Trifles? The total sum is far from commonplace. 602 tine aa Fee Pauline B. Wale's Hobby - Seventy Years of Quiltmaking Pauline B. Wale, Salt Lake City, Utah, 's almost one hundred years old, and she has enjoyed making quilts for more than seventy yearsWhen asked what type of quilts she likes to make best, she replied: «ayy colors and all kinds—pieced, plain, and applique." Since her ninetieth birthday, she has pieced fourteen quilts. The quilt which she is holding in the picture was pieced after her ninety-eignth pirthdayShe has crocheted fifteen afghans, many tablecloths and bedspreads, as well as lace edgings for pillowslips. She is mother to eight children, grandmother to twenty-four, and great-grandmother to fifty-six. She is active in her ward and has a strong testimony of the gospel. On her ninety-eignth birthday she was the principal speaker in the ward sacrament meeting.- She took part in the Relief Society closing social in May 1964 and recited a poem with accuracy and expression. She maintains an enthusiastic interest In temple work and has completed more than three thousand endowments. 603 Your Heart to CHAPTER 7 Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, travel from Winter Quarters to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake in the company of Lon Holiday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blodgett, captain of ten. Selena, whose fiancé died at Winter Quarters, cannot overcome the great sorrow and bitterness of her loss. When the wagon train arrives in the Valley, Belle and Josiah are married, and, later they leave with a group of saints to settle in San Bernardino, California. Selena and Lon, who has loved her since their first meeting, also join the company but are separated for most ofthe journey after the division of the company. Alfred Quale, who has traveled all the way to San Bernardino with the Blodgetts and Selena, continues his ardent courtship after the company arrives at San Bernardino. Much difficulty is encountered in securing title to the land, and Lon volunteers to journey to the gold camps to secure money for purchase of the land. 604 'a Hazel M. Thomson Ir was a long trip north that Brothers Lyman and Rich and their little group of men had mapped out for themselves. But everywhere they found members of the Church, the response to their request for financial help was gratifying and immediate. The brethren were willing, and even anxious, to ease the needs of the group waiting in San Bernardino Valley. To Lon, saddened though he was by his own personal problem, the trip was a revelation. In the same camp with drunkards and gamblers were to be found converts to the revealed gospel of Christ who gave their last bit of gold dust to aid in the establishment of the new settlement. A request from the two apostles was to them a call from the Lord, himself, and Lon found their faith strengthening his own. Selena had been somewhat puzzled by Lon's apparent disinterest in her when he left the camp, and with Alfred Quale's proposal of marriage the previous evening, she was seriously considering marrying him. "Come on, Selena, away from the wagon for a bit," he had urged. "I have an important question to discuss with you, and it isn't for Belle nor Josiah to hear." Selena had known the time had arrived when Alfred planned to ask her to marry him and wondered just why he had chosen this particular time, when the affairs of the camp were in a rather uncertain state. As they walked out along the trail through the grove, Alfred wasted no time. "We can be married right away, Selena," he had said. "I expect to come into a bit of money, a sort of legacy you might call it," and he had laughed in a strange, mysterious way. He certainly wasn't a man who would be sharing all his dealings in detail with a wife, Selena had thought. But then he would be around, and with the Indians constantly besieging the camp in their never-ending begging for food, this trait in her future husband had become important to Selena. Unlike Lon, who was leaving in the morning for a lengthy trip north, Alfred wouldn't always be jumping in response to what he considered to be a call from authority, letting his own affairs take care of themselves. This YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING problem would always be with her, she knew very well, if she married Lon Holiday. The thoughts passed with lightning speed through her mind, as did also the fact that Alfred hadn't really asked her. He had apparently assumed, in his selfassurance, that she could not possibly refuse him. "We're two alike, Selena. I hate this idea of empire building that seems to possess the others. We can leave here together, Selena, and go north where the empire is already underway. The bishop can perform the ceremony, then, when the leaders get back, we can be on our way." This last puzzled Selena. "If we wait until they return, I should very much like to have Brother Lyman marry us. But I don't understand your wanting to wait until they come." "IT just can't walk away without a proper goodbye, my sweet. I shall always owe the two brethren who led us here a great debt." Selena was not sure whether Alfred was serious or whether there was a bit of sarcasm in his words, but his plan held out to her a means of escape, and she had decided to take it. But upon one point she was determined to insist, to wait until the apostles returned to have their marriage performed. "Since you plan to remain until Brother Lyman is back, Alfred, you can have no serious objection to having him marry us," she said. "All right, if that's the way you want it. I had thought to be ready to leave almost immediately, but I presume that giving in to you on this won't give 605 AUGUST 1964 you the idea that I intend always to give in to your whims. But since that's settled, come here. I've been waiting a long time for this." Alfred had pulled her to him and kissed her, long and hard. Selena resisted an impulse to pull away, watching the bright, full moon high above the sycamores. Upon her return to camp Selena decided against telling Belle and Josiah. There was plenty of time to do so before the men returned from the north. She went directly to bed after Alfred returned to his own wagon, her thoughts a whirl of confusion. The gospel meant a good deal to Selena, and she knew what she was planning was fundamentally wrong. But she felt she just couldn't remain in the San Bernardino settlement. WHEN the wagon left Sycamore Grove for San Pedro to meet the south-bound brig Fremont which was carrying the supplies the brethren had sent for the camp, Josiah went along. "T'll be just fine, Josiah," Belle had insisted. '"You'll only be gone a few days, and it'll give you a chance to see a bit more of California." He met Lon and learned that Brother Lyman had not returned with the others, having stayed north in an effort to raise more money. Brother Rich had gone to Los Angeles with the funds already obtained and would return to the Grove from there. Most of the wagons had returned to the grove before Brother Rich put in an appearance. A gun shot was heard in the camp 606 that night. Josiah remembered it later, wondering just what it was. By noon the next day he knew. A stranger came into camp asking for Alfred Quale. Josiah paused from pulling burrs from the tail of his horse and nodded his head in Alfred's direction. A heated argument followed, and though Josiah couldn't hear it all, he heard enough. That gun shot the night Brother Rich brought the money into camp was probably a signal. Quale had planned with this man and others to waylay Brother Rich out somewhere along the road. Suddenly the man swung at Quale. Josiah watched, but made no effort to intervene. A short few minutes later the man looked at Quale on the ground, blood oozing from Alfred's mouth. "Next time when you say New Road you'd better mean New Road. You knew all the time Rich would come on the Old Road that's seldom traveled. You had ideas of getting it all for yourself. That's why I'm here, right in your camp, to let them know just what you are." The man jumped on his horse and was gone. By morning Alfred Quale had left also and never again was seen in the camp of the saints. One week later Brother Rich performed the marriage of Selena Baldwin and Lon Holiday. BELLE and Josiah offered a prayer of thankfulness, took a good deep breath apiece, and relaxed. But for Lon this was to be the beginning of days and months running into years during which he was to wonder over and over again whether the time would ever come when Selena would ever feel deep love for him. Selena, herself, found a measure of comfort in knowing that she had not left the Church, as Alfred had planned for her to do. There was a great strength which she drew from Lon. But there were to be many, many times, when she would hate herself for her own weakness; for her inability to return the love she received from Lon; for the hurt she caused him in return for his unceasing goodness to her. She recognized all of these, and yet remained powerless to act as she would have done, had she no memory of a burial in the cemetery at Winter Quarters. Negotiations were finally completed, and then came the day when the Mormons moved onto the Rancho del San Bernardino. The originally planned 80,000 acres proved to be in reality 35,509. The purchase price af $70,000 changed also, to $77,500, yet it was a day of great rejoicing when the settlers were at last on their own land. One square mile was set aside as the site for the town. "We will pattern it after the City of the Great Salt Lake," Brother Rich declared, "with a temple block in the center of the city." Now the work began in earnest. Homes must be built, land cleared and plowed, and fences built. The fences intrigued Belle. "T've never seen anything like it, Josiah," she said. "'Live willow posts, driven in the ground, and then they say that the posts will continue growing to form a YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING hedge-like land." It was on an afternoon when they were nearing completion of the first section of the fence, and Josiah had gone for more posts, that Belle felt her first pain. She simply stood her axe by the fence, asked Lon to tell Josiah she had gone to the wagon, and walked calmly toward it. Belle had always handled everything quickly and efficiently, and with as little fuss as pos-: sible. She had no intention of doing otherwise now. She knew she must get Sister Tenny and was glad that it wasn't far. The pains were becoming a bit more bothersome. Josiah returned with the posts, and by the time the fence was finished the baby had arrived. Belle, as_ usual, worked things out well on schedule. Only then, according to Belle's wishes, did Sister Tenny call to Josiah, 'Come and see your son," after walking some distance to the end of the section of fence. Josiah's face paled. "Lon! You said...." Josiah turned toward his friend. "T said all she told me, Josiah. She never once mentioned that she was leaving to have the baby." Josiah dropped his axe and ran, but at the wagon box he stopped and climbed in carefully, moving to the bed where Belle lay, cheerful and smiling. "Belle! Why didn't you say something? Why didn't you call me?" "Land sakes, Josiah. You'd have become excited as you are now, and you never would have finished the fence today." fence around the AUGUST 1964 Josiah turned to the baby, his face filled with the wonder of him. "My boy! My son!" he said. "Well, Josiah Blodgett!" said Belle spiritedly. "You might remember that he belongs to me a little, too." Lon withdrew to go and tell Selena. WHEN the news came that the Indians were planning an attack, _all work on homes ceased. Along with her fears, Selena suffered a great disappointment. Lon had spoken of the home he planned to build. ''What kind of trees are there in the mountains, Lon?" she had asked.. "You name it, Selena, and it's there, cedar, pine, hemlock. There is a sugar-pine with light, almost white wood and straightgrained with no pitch. That is what we will use for the finishing. There'll not be a house in all New England made of better materials." "Oh, Lon!" she cried. "Really? No soft adobe with the dust blowing from the cracks?" "No adobe, Selena," he said, thinking how very beautiful she was when she was excited about something, wondering for the hundredth time whether he could ever bring that light into her eyes. The thought of a beautiful home could do it, but her husband couldn't. Now, in the face of the Indian scare, all efforts were united in one big undertaking, that of building a fort. There were those in the group who had lived in Kentucky, and the fort was patterned after others they had seen there. But it was a big task and all building on individual homes ceased. It was Juan Antonio who brought the news. He was to be the best friend the Mormons had among the Indians. At one time the lands of San Bernardino had belonged to this Cahuilla Chief and his people. Now they lived on a small bit of land in San Gorgonio Canyon. Juan Antonio met with Brother Rich and Brother Hunter, the Indian Agent, telling them of Chief Garra's invitation to attend a convocation of chiefs. 'Who is this Garra?'" Brother Rich asked. "He's an independent chief with a band of renegade Indians, and he is the scourge of Southern California. He killed eleven of a group of Californians who sought refuge at Pauma during the Mexican War. Juan Antonio, here, aided the whites in driving Garra off at that time. There have been feelings between the two ever since. Personally, I am surprised that you have been invited, Juan," Hunter said. "Garra has set himself a big job," replied Juan Antonio, his English almost as perfect as his physique. He stood tall in the group of men, his white teeth flashing in contrast to the copper tones of his skin. 'He needs all the Indians he can get, and plans to drive out all the Americans from San Diego to Santa Barbara." "The news has traveled fast," said Hunter. "San Diego County has enrolled every able-bodied' man, and Los Angeles County has a large volunteer group on its way now to station themselves at the Chino Ranch." "Yes," agreed Brother Rich. "'We've been asked to send our own quota to join the men at Chino. Seems wisest to send those without families and the other men could stay here with the women and children and keep on with finishing the fort." General Bean, commander of the militia in Southern California, called at the fort and commended the Mormons for their undertaking. "Your fort is a wise move," he said, watching the beehive of activity. There were over one hundred men busy cutting and splitting the trunks of cottonwood trees, fitting them close together, and setting them three feet down into the ground. The finished wall looked to be about twelve feet high, with the outer walls of the houses making a part of the fence. Others of the settlers were making the ditch from Garner's Springs to bring water through the fort. "You will be well prepared for any move Garra may make," added the General. '""We're trying to keep track of him enough that we can anticipate his plans: Usually we have succeeded, but he was ahead of us at Agua Caliente, and twelve men were lost." "But how can you know?" asked Brother Rich. ''Where do you get any information about his next raid?" "Juan Antonio is our best help," said the general. "His braves have gone right into Garra's camp without being detected, a time or two. He's a wicked Indian, Garra. No respect for any YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING man's life, except perhaps his own. We have plenty of evidence against him. All that remains to be done is to take him into custody." "Quite a large order, isn't it, General?" asked Josiah. 'From what I've heard there isn't a horse in the state than can stay with his." "It's true, all right,' answered the General. "I've lost him on more than one occasion for that. Very reason. Had a good mount under me, too. When he is taken the law won't be the winner nearly as much as the man who gets that white horse." It was soon after the move into the fort and into the small cabin Selena and Lon shared with Belle and Josiah that Brother Rich and Brother Lyman both came to see Lon. Selena knew instantly that something important was in the air. She withdrew to the end of the room where her bed was, dropping the curtain down between herself and the men. It won't matter what they want, Lon will be ready and willing, she thought, half angrily. He thinks the greatest honor in life is to be worthy to suffer for the Church. The voices came easily through to where Selena lay, as Brother Lyman said, "It's not an easy task we're asking, Lon. Juan Antonio brings us word that Garra is set up for his next raid. It is to be against the Weaver Ranch at San Gorgonio." "What we had in mind, Lon," continued Brother Rich, "was this. A white man could ride into the Weaver Ranch without Weaver thinking it might be Garra and 609 AUGUST 1964 starting to fire. You are to go with Juan, warn Weaver and his men, and give them time to move out and go into hiding. Juan's braves, those whom he can really trust, will join you then in the ranch house. When Garra arrives and sees the Indian ponies, he will think that Juan and his men have decided to join him and will walk right into the trap." There was a long moment of silence. Selena's heart pounded at the danger Lon would be in. "We realize there are a number of things that could go wrong, but we have given a great deal of thought to this, and it looks like the best plan in order to have the least fighting and the fewest possible lives lost." Again the brethren fell silent, waiting for Lon to speak. "T don't blame you for being hesitant," Brother Rich said. "You have every right to turn the proposition down, but Juan Antonio has great respect for you, Lon. He asked that we would send you with him. Your wife will object to your going, of course. But this may be the means of saving many, many lives, Brother Holiday." Selena knew exactly the hurt look that would be in Lon's eyes. She wanted to rush past the heavy curtain, throw herself into his arms and beg him not to go. But the habit of keeping a stern grip on any show of emotion was strong upon her. She gripped her arms hard, feeling her nails sink into her own flesh. Lon's voice was even when he spoke. "There'll be no problem in that quarter, Brother Rich. I shall be ready as soon as the horses are." (To be concluded) i Stood on a Hiiltop Vilate R. McAllister | stood on a hilltop with autumn, And noted how far the eye Could penetrate leafless landscapes, How reachable was the sky. The sun slanted in through windows Once darkened by summer shade, And | marveled at lengthening vistas The shortening days had made. My soul had a new horizon; In height and in breadth it grew, As 1! Stood on a hilltop with autumn, And contemplated the view. 610 A throug the sy Gladys W, Relief Society Presidency, Visiting teacher i impro e Visiting teachers fe) Ss. In response to this Special emphasis Siting teacher Meetings + 1 Genera] Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker Ui Materia] Submitte d for Publicatj h stake and Mission Relie i ': West Ward Visit; Attendance, ilson, Presiden in th Meetings, Urged al] th Sit AUGUST 1964 Highland Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Ward Relief Society Presidents Conduct Evening as Well as Daytime Relief Societies Left to right: Marriam Gwynn; Birdie Horman; Grace Wilcox; Eva Sipkema; Betty Stohl; Marion S. Porter. Ruby M. Blake, former president, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "These six ward presidents have been holding night, in addition to daytime Relief Society, since October 1963, and have interested forty women who would not have been able to have attended daytime sessions, because of employment outside the home. "A special anniversary social, sponsored by the Highland Stake Relief Society Board, for the sisters who attend the six evening sessions in this stake, was held on March 2, 1964." The new president of Highland Stake Relief Society is Eva A. Sipkema. Lewiston Stake, Moscow (Idaho) Second Ward Relief Society Students Attending the University of Idaho Front row, seated, left to right: Vicki Nuffer; Gail Nystrom; Marjean Moore, Education Counselor; Barbara Workman, President; Linda Galley, Work Director Counselor; Connie Wright, Secretary-Treasurer; Laura Dufiey. Second row, standing, left to right: Jeanette Hoffman; Jeanie Rock; Joan Butler; Marilyn Mecham; Carole Priest; Laureen Anderson; Darlene Steiner; Marva Whiting; Glenda Knighton. Back row, standing, left to right: Carol Watts; Karon Green; Ruth Ann Loveland; Carolyn Woodruff; Dawna Sherwood; Lenore Johnson. Norma M. Kunkel, President, Lewiston Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Moscow Second Ward is a student ward for students, both married and single, who attend the University of Idaho.. Until this year very few of the single sisters were members of Relief Society. Now the single sisters have their own session of Relief Society which meets on Sunday morning. Assistant officers and class leaders have been chosen from their own membership. One member of the ward presidency presides at each meeting. The work meeting lessons are presented at the regular Relief Society meeting on Sunday morning, but once a month the single sisters join with the married sisters for work meeting activities Wednesday evening. "We are pleased with the enthusiasm with which this program has been accepted by the sisters of both sessions and are proud of the achievements being made by this Relief Society." Yuma Stake (Arizona), Yuma Second Ward Honors Literature Class Leader February 1964 Seated, front, left to right: Eva McGovern, Secretary-Treasurer, Yuma Stake Relief Society; Elva B. Fife, First Counselor; Effie Pearl Bass, ward literature class leader; Louise S. Westover, President, Yuma Stake Relief Society; Mary A. Butler, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Elsa M. Blair, President, Yuma Second Ward Relief Society; Cerise Cox, Second Counselor; Mary Elmer, First Counselor; Judy Larson, Socorro Mesa; Delma DeHart; Sybil Barrett; Grace Price; Florence Keil; June Deering; Clara Bass Laurinas, daughter of Pearl Bass; Jackie Sackett, granddaughter of Pearl Bass; Aldyth Quilter; Faye Curtis. At this meeting, Sister Effie Pearl Bass, eighty-six-year-old literature class leader, inspired the sisters in attendance with her impressive literature lessons given without notes. Recognition was also given to her for her outstanding record of devotion to Relief Society. She has taught literature and social science lessons for fifteen years. Now confined to a wheelchair, she lives with her granddaughter, who reads the lessons to her. A wonderful example of courage and devotion, she is truly a master teacher and inspires the other sisters to seek out. The best in literature. 612 NOTES FROM THE FIELD =: a bi ' Wi } VJ | i a. AUGUST 1964 Cedar West Stake (Utah) Presents Tableau ''Mothers of the World" December 6, 1963 Bernella Jones, organist, is seated on the organ bench; Cora A. Condie, conductor, stands at the left of the organist; Elva Miles, President, Cedar West Stake Relief Society (wearing dark dress) stands behind the pulpit; Counselor Lucy Lunt (in dark dress) stands behind President Miles; Counselor Iris Corry stands among the Singing Mothers, sixth from the right, on the next to the back row. Sister Miles reports: "This was a very outstanding event. The program was in two parts and the first part consisted of choruses, vocal solos, and a string ensemble; the second part presented tableaux depicting mothers of different lands accompanied by lullabies of those lands. The program was very well received by a large audience. "This group of Singing Mothers sings frequently in our stake conferences." Southern Far East Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers At Luzon District Conference (Phillippines) March 1, 1964 Virginia Quealy, Supervisor, Southern Far East Mission, reports: 'This was the first appearance of the Singing Mothers in the Philippines. The chorister was Carol Smithen, and the pianist Mary Ellen Edmunds. Branches represented were Manila, Clark, San Juan, Cavite, and San Fernando. "We practiced about three months for this, beginning with sisters who could not even read music, let alone pick out the parts. It was inspiring to observe them trying to learn the words and music so diligently. We had one 'grand' practice before the conference. About forty-eight sisters joined us. It was thrilling—white blouses, dark skirts, and small corsages made of red satin ribbon." Sevier Stake (Utah) Annual Holiday Fair and Guest Day November 16, 1963 Madge G. Parks, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our annual holiday fair and guest day proved to be a great success from all standpoints. This occasion has created a great deal of interest in our stake and has been the means of gaining a number of new members for Relief Society. An invitation to 'Be Our Guest' was sent to every sister in our stake, along with a program for the day. The local newspaper and radio gave us help in advertising. The response was wonderful — nearly 600 persons attended throughout the afternoon, including many of our non-Latter-day Saint sisters. "All of our eleven wards and two branches participated in this affair, and it was one of the highlights of the year. Each ward prepared a display and gave demonstrations on outstanding articles, as well as demonstrations on foods and their preparation, with tastes for everyone. Our Lamanite sisters had a display of fine handiwork and articles they had made. The displays were many and varied, and the only word to describe them is 'fabulous.' There were fortyfour banquet tables filled with choice items, all in keeping with Relief Society standards. The stake board members did an outstanding job on the displays pertaining to their departments. Each one depicted beautifully the lessons, Magazine, music, record keeping, and work meeting. Our stake work meeting leader and counselor, Myrtle Seegmiller and Leola Pearson, had a lovely display of work meeting items and Christmas decorations. All of our stake board members stood by and were prepared to answer any questions or explain any and all phases of the Relief Society program. Light refreshments were served to everyone. 614 AUGUST 1964 Southwest Indian Mission, Chinle Branch (Arizona) Relief Society Members Who Sponsored a Rummage and Bake Sale Front row, left to right: Louise Yazzi; Louise Brown; Yanabah Begay; Sister Tosie; Anne Dick. Back row, left to right: Bonnie Vandiviere, President, Chinle Branch Relief Society; Pauline Dawes; Colleen Hilquist; Margaret Flake; Agnes Deadman; Hazel Lewis, missionary; Susie Little, missionary; Selina Begay. Elizabeth M. Baird, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The group in the picture is smaller than usual. It has been difficult to get all of the sisters of this branch together for a picture, usually at least twenty are in attendance. I quote from a letter from the president of the branch: 'We had our clothes washed and ironed, and they were all good clothes. We had a large rack to hang all of our nicest ones on. It looked like a small store, with the clothing and delicious baked goods. The Lord really blessed us, and it brought us together in a feeling of love for each other and the gospel.' " June Young (not in the picture) is the president of the Chinle District Relief Society. North Box Elder Stake (Utah), Outstanding Attendance at Corinne Second Ward Literature Meeting, April 1963 Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Corinne Second Ward Relief Society, under the direction of President Grace Jeppesen and her counselors Lila Wright and Lorna Reader, is busy compiling information and collecting pictures for a Relief Society History Book. It will contain historical accounts, as well as photographs depicting the progress of the organization. "The above picture will add to the interest of the book, as it shows an outstanding attendance at the April 1963 literature meeting. There were forty-one out of fifty enrolled members present, and twenty-seven children enjoyed activities in the nursery. Present when the picture was taken were all members of the immediate past presidency, the present presidency, and all class leaders. Also present was Sister Ellen Mangum, age eighty-four, the eldest Relief Society member in the ward." Northern Far East Mission, Ilwakuni (Japan) Relief Society Bazaar October 27, 1963 Left to right: Pauline Johnson, President; Velma J. Bell, First Counselor; Janet Koford, Second Counselor; Zella Cleary, work meeting leader. Seated: Lynn M. Champagne, Secretary. Former members Wendy Olmstead and Marjorie Perry also contributed to the success of this bazaar. Peggy H. Andersen, Relief Society Supervisor, Northern Far East Mission, reports: "This group of women is representative of many small groups of service-connected Relief Societies operating throughout the Northern Far East Mission. Even though their numbers are small, sometimes three to seven or eight women, still they carry out the full program of Relief Society each year. These groups are made up of wives of American servicemen serving in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines in the Far East. They are a great strength to the mission and have been instruments by which many converts have been baptized into the Church in this mission. The example of the faithful serviceman and his family does more than any other thing to convince people of the divinity of the Church. Some of these small groups of women are located in very isolated areas of Japan, and their association together through the program of Relief Society is a tremendous strength to each of them. They are a fine example to the Japanese Relief Societies also and are assisting in the program among the local people." 616 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 617 Se: % on \ 8. RT _ —Z7 ——4 Vie THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants * Lesson 58—The Vision (continued) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76:50-119) Objective: For First Meeting, November 1964 To study God's plan for the salvation of all his children who can be saved. INTRODUCTION Jesus Christ was crucified to save the world from sin. (D&C 76:40-42.) By this redemptive act he made it possible for every man to be resurrected from the grave. (Ibid., 88:27-32.) In addition to universal salvation — the resurrection — the atonement of Christ provides a spiritual life for the individual who will be obedient to the fulness of the gospel. This spiritual life brings the obedient back into the presence of God from which they were excluded by sin after arriving at the years of accountability. (I[bid., 29:41; John 5:24; 11:25- 26; D&C 68:25-27.) AIC TOAIC MANY MAI All who have lived, do live, or ever will live upon this earth are the begotten sons and daughters of God. God's solicitude for them is boundless. Through his merciful plan provision is made for the salvation of all men, ex- 618 cept the sons of perdition. Contrasted with the erroneous notion that belief in Christ without works is sufficient for a place with God, the plan just mentioned appeals to us as one of justice and mercy. This is more evident when we realize that those who have not had the opportunity to accept Christ may do so in the spirit world. To say, however, that all men are to be saved does not mean that all will receive equal status with God. Considering the differences that exist in knowledge, faith, and righteousness, it would be unjust to save everyone on the same level. In declaring this doctrine, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: My text is on the resurrection of the dead, which you will find in the 14th chapter of John [Verses 1-2] — "In my Father's house are many mansions." It should be — "In my Father's kingdom are many kingdoms," in order that ye may be heirs of God and joint-heirs with me. I do not believe the Methodist doctrine of sending honest men and noble-minded men to hell, along with the murderer and the adulterer.... But I have an order of things to save the poor fellows at any rate, and get them saved; for I will send: men to preach to them in prison and save them if I can. There are mansions for those who obey a celestial law, and there are other mansions for those who come short of the law, every man in his own order. There is baptism, etc., for those to exercise who are alive, and baptism for the dead who die without the knowledge of the Gospel (DHC VI: 365). We have just learned that Jesus taught that there are gradations in "heaven." Paul also received a vision of the kingdoms of glory for resurrected man. (I Cor. 15:40-41.) The principle of reward and punishment is given in this New Testament scripture: "He which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly; and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully" (II Cor. 9:6). CELESTIAL KINGDOM In verses 50 through 53 of Section 76, the Lord reveals those who are eligible to receive the highest heaven mentioned in the scriptures. In the words of Joseph Smith, entrance into the celestial kingdom is possible for those who follow these instructions:... Il will proceed to tell you what the Lord requires of all people, high and low, rich and poor, male and female, ministers and people, professors of religion and non-professors, in order that they may enjoy the Holy Spirit of God to a fulness and escape the judgments of God, which are almost ready to burst upon the nations of the earth. Repent of all your sins, and be baptized in water for the remission of them, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Holy Ghost, and receive the ordinance of the laying on of the hands of him who is ordained and sealed unto this power, that ye may receive the Holy Spirit of God; and this is according to the Holy Scriptures, and the Book of Mormon; and the only way that man can enter into the celestial kingdom. These are the requirements of the new covenant, or first principles of the Gospel of Christ; then "Add to your faith, virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; and to knowledge, temperance; and to temperance, patience; and to patience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly kindness; and_ to brotherly kindness, charity [or love]; - for if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful, in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ" (DHC 1:314-315. See also II Peter 1:5-8). CELESTIAL EXALTATION. As there are three kingdoms of glory, celestial, terrestrial, and telestial, so there are many gradations or levels of reward within these great heavens. In the celestial kingdom there are three heavens or degrees. The Lord has told us that in order for us to receive the highest of these, we must meet all of the requirements of the gospel. In the celestial glory there are three heavens or degrees; And in order to obtain the highest, a man must enter into this order of the priesthood [meaning the new and everlasting covenant of marriage]; And if he does not, he cannot obtain it. He may enter into the other, but that is the end of his kingdom; he cannot have an increase (D&C 131: 1-4). The highest of these three degrees in the celestial kingdom is attained by those who receive exaltation. (Ibid., 182:21-24.) In addition to obedience to the first principles of the gospel, noted 619 AUGUST 1964 above in the scriptures and the Prophet's statement, one must enter into temple marriage (the new and everlasting covenant of marriage), remain just and true, and receive the seal of the Holy Ghost. (Jbid., 132:19.) This truth mentioned by Paul (I Cor. 11:11) emphasizes the necessity that every Latter-day Saint understand the importance of temple marriage, the sealing of husband and wife by the authority of the Holy Priesthood. Without this ordinance, though one is married by the civil law, there is no exaltation. Smr Fircimc om | Section 76 continues the description of the celestial kingdom by indicating that there will be those in that glory who belong to the Church of the Firstborn. Keeping in mind that this refers to man's condition after the resurrection and not in this life, we learn that all things are given to the obedient by the Father. They become priests and kings, having received a fulness of the Father's glory as the Church of the Firstborn. To enter into the preparations for this glory the Melchizedek Priesthood is necessary for the male and the blessings of that Priesthood are received by his faithful wife in the temple marriage. When "all things" are bestowed upon them, they become gods, even the sons of God, joint-heirs with Christ. (D&C 76:54-61; 84:35-38; Romans 8:16-17.) EXALTATION —- THE GOA Latter-day Saints are prone to refer to the attainment of the celestial kingdom as the highest 620 objective available in the gospel plan. From the foregoing discussion of eternal life, it should be evident that entrance in the celestial kingdom will not necessarily bring a fulness of powers and glory. If, in using the term celestial glory or kingdom, is meant exaltation in that kingdom, then that is the highest objective. On the other hand, if one ignores that there are different degrees in the celestial kingdom and the highest "heaven'"' is possible only by obedience to all of the commandments, including temple marriage and its covenants, the expression is misleading. CELESTIAL GLORY All who receive the celestial kingdom receive celestial glory for they are in the presence of God and Christ' forever. (D&C 76:62.) These are they who shall come with the Christ at his coming and will receive the first resurrection. Their bodies are celestial, like God's body, compared with the sun in_ brightness. (Verses 63-70.) Exaltation in that kingdom is given to all who will meet the requirements — keeping all the commandments. Position in the Church does not necessarily qualify one for this great blessing. President George Albert Smith expressed it this way: One of the beautiful things to me in the Gospel of Jesus Christ: is that it brings us all to a common level. It is not necessary for a man to be a president of a stake, or a member of the Quorum of the Twelve, in order to attain a high place in the celestial kingdom. The humblest member of the Church, if he keeps the commandments of God, will obtain an exaltation just as much as any other man in the celestial kingdom. The beauty of the Gospel of Jesus Christ is that it makes us all equal in as far as we keep the commandments of the Lord. In as far as we observe to keep the laws of the Church we have equal opportunities for exaltation. As we develop faith and righteousness our light is made to shine as a guide and blessing to those with whom we mingle (Conference Report, October 1933, page 25). OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL One of the most informative revelations received by _ the Prophet Joseph Smith was given by vision in the Kirtland Temple on January 21, 1836. The Prophet said that he saw the blazing throne of God in the celestial kingdom which was like circling flames of fire. There he saw some who had not received an opportunity to receive the gospel in this life, and the explanation of their being in that kingdom. A "voice" declared that all who died without an opportunity to know the gospel and accept it while on the earth will have the privilege in the spirit world. If they would have received the gospel while on the earth, given the opportunity, they will be heirs of the celestial kingdom upon acceptance of it in the spirit world. The great truth is proclaimed that the Lord "will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts" (DHC II:380-381). ACCORDING TO WORKS To every man there is given opportunity. But all men will not abide the full law that will bring the greatest blessing. Some will have lost the opportunity for LESSON DEPARTMENT exaltation and the celestial kingdoin because they did not abide the law to which they were responsible in mortality. The merciful plan of the Father is described by Joseph Smith as follows: But while one portion of the human race is judging and condemning the other without mercy, the Great Parent of the universe looks upon the whole of the human family with a fatherly care and paternal regard; He views them as His offspring, and without any of those contracted feelings that influence the children of men, causes "His sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust." He holds the reins of judgment in His hands; He is a wise Lawgiver, and will judge all men, not according to the narrow, contracted notions of men, but, "according to the deeds done in the body whether they be good or evil," or whether these deeds were done in England, America, Spain, Turkey, or India. He will judge them, "not according to what they have not, but according to what they have," those who have lived without law, will be judged without law, and those who have a law, will be judged by that law. We need not doubt the wisdom and intelligence of the Great Jehovah; He will award judgment or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family; and when the designs of God shall be made manifest, and the curtain of futurity be withdrawn, we shall all of us eventually have to confess that the Judge of all the earth has done right (DHC IV:595-596). SALVATION OF CHILDREN In the same vision in the Kirtland Temple revealing an opportunity for everyone to hear the gospel either in this life or in the 621 AUGUST 1964 spirit world, the "voice" declared the following to Joseph Smith: And I also beheld that all children who die before they arrive at the years of accountability, are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven (DHC II:381). This truth is in harmony with and gives meaning to verse 67 of Section 76, wherein it is given that those in the celestial kingdom will constitute ''an innumerable company of angels." TERRESTRIAL KINGDOM The next vision seen by Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon was that of the terrestrial kingdom. Differing from the celestial kingdom as the moon differs in glory from the sun, those of this kingdom will also consist of an innumerable host. (D&C 76:91-92, 96-98, 71.) Those of the terrestrial kingdom are described as 'honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men." They lived the law to which they were responsible on the earth, but they did not receive the fulness on the earth nor in the spirit world. In this kingdom there will also be those who "died without the law." (Jbid., 76: 72-75.) In addition to those mentioned, there will be some Latter-day Saints who were honorable in their lives, but who were indifferent to the fulness of the truth. Expressed in the language of the revelation, they were "not valiant in the testimony of Jesus; wherefore, they obtuin not the crown over the kingdom of our God" (Ibid., 76:79). It was their privilege to obtain that crown, but the spirit of apathy toward the work 622 of the Lord gained ascendancy in their lives. Terrestrial beings will have the presence of Jesus Christ. (D&C 76:77.) In the absence of specific scriptural statement it is reasonable to believe that there are degrees within the terrestrial and also that advancement within that kingdom is possible. (TALMAGE, JAMES E..: Articles of Faith, page 409.) TELESTIAL KINGDOM In the lowest of the three degrees of glory — the telestial there will be innumerable gradations or degrees. (D&C 76: 98; I Cor. 15:41.) In this kingdom will be assigned those who are described as the wicked of the earth — liars, sorcerers, adulterers. They are those who reject the gospel and the testimony of Jesus and the prophets. They are the followers of manmade systems, who persist in their abominable ways. (D&C 76:99-106, 81-85.) It is these who will come from their graves in the first part of the second or general resurrection at the end of the millennium. Although coming under this condemnation, they have been cleansed in the spirit world and are prepared to enter a glory "which surpasseth all understanding." (Verse 89.) In their kingdom they will receive the Holy Spirit through the ministry of terrestrial beings, and of angels appointed to minister in the telestial world. (Verses 86, 88.) The number who will inherit this glory will be as numerous as the sand upon the seashore. (Verse 109.) The specific ordinances, if there be ch enter into the Chance lestia] glory jg Open telestia] a Trestrial k '&doms to all (D ave not b Tevealed. T e inCONCLSion Itiatory dinances of water bap — Bratilying to ig whe g. Esm an e ying on f hand Sire th Salvat of ankind, and for the gift the Ghost whose work It is ¢ labor fop their and ther Ordinan €s known to uplifting, ho hay, e Pecially he Latter. Y nt, are for th Called of Nd appoint d ork Celestia] k O ] under th apt. If Salvation some of mia norable and be Placed here th an enjoy "Christians" Ww, be lieve that existence, to glorify God a d Obey 5 lS Comman, ments,. © laws of e greatest ze ard f obediOd are e ernal; they a e forever and eo is t e in Presenc of ever; they are inflexible it is esus Christ, If honor ble they only by Obedienc to law that exaltaTeceive Tesent desire tion ¢ © secured this cond; lighteneq" hens | Ing their QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION aw wil 81ven t Chance to 1 Scuss th doctrine that men accept th estria] aw; if they will receive different Tewards 0, then eir pla of future ndicate Some of the things neces Sary to ob ain Celestia] Slory, to Teabode will be th €rrestria] Ceive exaltation i the Celestia] Ingdom, kingdom hen Teference IS _m to - Discuss the IMPortance of tem. These &TOups of t Trestrials and ple marriage.. Lelestials it Should be Temem- 4. Is joe eCeSSArY that ne hold a ered that the Lord yw; give t. A i -_ te reh 0 be ex. Alted in the nex E all °'PPortunity to hear Who wil Mmherit the e€rrestria] he Eospel of esus Ch Th ingdom? Elestia] gdom? 623 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 58 — ''And He Who Receiveth All Things With Thankfulness Shall Be Made Glorious'' (D&C 78:19). For First Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To emphasize the fact that thankfulness enlarges and glorifies the personality and radiates the spirit of friendliness. Tue blessings associated with thankfulness are among _ those available to all of us. A thankful heart is a gracious, joyous heart. Thankfulness is a frame of mind. It is a point of view — an attitude which enriches and gladdens those who possess it and warms the hearts of those with whom it comes into contact. The Lord has promised that those who receive all things with thankfulness "shall be made glorious" and shall receive blessings an hundred fold. This is undoubtedly due to the marvelous effect that an attitude of thankfulness has upon the individual who possesses it. It is a truism that as we look for blessings they seem to magnify before our eyes and we discover additional reasons to be grateful. The attitude of thankfulness radiates friendliness, cheerfulness, love, humility, meekness, and mercy. These are some of the character attributes which the Savior found so desirable when he said those possessed 624 of them should be bounteously blessed and should inherit the earth. The Greek philosopher Plutarch wrote that, "the worship most acceptable to God, comes from a thankful and cheerful heart' (Edwards, Useful Quotations, page 641). Isaak Walton suggested that, "God has two dwellings; one in heaven, and the other in a meek and thankful heart" (Ibid., p. 641). A thankful heart is a priceless possession but one which is readily within the reach of all of us. Its possession is not dependent upon season, age, learning or wealth. Like any other good habit the attitude of thankfulness can be cultivated through regular and consistent practice. If we will consistently express our gratitude on every possible occasion we will find that an attitude of thankfulness will develop naturally. The simple practice of saying, "thank you" and meaning it, costs so little in time and effort and means so much to those to whom it is expressed. If we want the rich blessings that come with thankfulness, we should develop the habit of expressing gratitude to our loved ones in the home, to our friends and associates, as well as to our Father in heaven for his many blessings to us. Henry Ward Beecher portrayed the influence and contagion of thankfulness with this illustration: "If one should give me a dish of sand and tell me there were particles of iron in it, I might look for them with my eyes, and search for them with my clumsy fingers, and be unable to detect them; but let me take a magnet and sweep through it, and how it would draw to itself the almost invisible particles by the mere power of attraction. — The unthankful heart, like my finger in the sand, discovers no mercies; but let the thankful heart sweep the day, and as the magnet finds the iron, so it will find, in every hour, some heavenly blessings" (as quoted by PresiLESSON DEPARTMENT dent Hugh B. Brown in Continuing the Quest, page 450). If we would be worthy of our Father in heaven's love, an essential aspect of our thankfulness must be our expression of gratitude to him for his countless blessings. All that we have — our lives, our talents, our health, the material things we enjoy, our assurance of salvation and our hope for exaltation — are his gracious gifts to us. The prophet Alma, in The Book of Mormon, admonished, "And now I would that ye should be humble... Asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive" (Alma 7:23). Thankfulness to our Father in heaven for his many blessings lays the foundation for the development of a thankful heart in all our relationships with one another. This is the key to abundant and glorious living. Lonely Catherine B. Bowles Just a touch of human kindness To know that someone is near Would fill the heart with sunshine That brings love and hope and cheer. Not worldly goods are needed But a love that makes one glad, A little bit of something That will fill the heart when sad. 625 WORK MEETING Molding a Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Discussion 2: Health and Its Influence on Happiness (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) For Second Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To examine common-sense ways of maintaining HEALTH and happiness are often mentioned in the same breath. And well they might be, for while it is possible to have happiness without good health, more often than not happiness seems to hinge upon the observance of good health habits — practices within daily living that enhance feelings of buoyant good health, abounding energy, and zestful living. President Belle S. Spafford in remarks at the presidents session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1963, counseled the mothers of the Church to take good care of themselves physically in order that they may remain well and strong to care for their families. She appealed to the sisters to get sufficient sleep and rest, to eat properly, and to refrain from pushing themselves beyond their physical endurance. To promote good health within 626 good within the family. The family and the general feeling of well-being that goes with it, we need to observe a few rules with persistence and determination. Family members who fail to do so may suffer from malnutrition, exhaustion, and fatigue, and may be so irritable, cross, and unreasonable as to offer serious threats to family happiness. Four rules of health that go a long way towards keeping a family in a state of general good health and, consequently, in a state of happiness are as follows: 1. Proper Food and Correct Eating Habits To provide the wide variety of proper foods needed for the nourishment of the family, menus should be planned regularly around the Basic Four Foods. The following should be included in each day's menu: A. DAIRY FOODS — milk, cheese, ice cream, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk. fa B. MEAT GROUP — meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese — with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates. C. VEGETABLES AND FRUITS — include dark green or yellow vegetables; citrus fruit or tomatoes. D. BREADS AND CEREALS — enriched or whole-grain. Added milk improves nutritional values. A wide variety of these foods eaten in reasonable and moderate amounts is the best possible protection against nutritional disease. Meals should be eaten at regular hours each day. The body is set for sustenance at certain times, and when there is a break in that routine, tempers become short, patience is exhausted, and family equilibrium is upset. It would be well to serve family members only enough food to maintain proper weight for height. Overeating is a common failing. Stress the eating of fruits and vegetables and avoid too frequently serving rich desserts and excess sugars and starches. Provide snacks of vegetable sticks, fruit, fruit drinks, and milk, cheese, deviled eggs, etc., rather than candy, cookies, and cake.: Serve an adequate breakfast and encourage all family members to eat it. Breakfast should include 4% to % of the total calorie needs for the day. Tests have proved that children and adults, alike, are more compatible, less accident prone, better students and workers, and have quicker reactions if they have eaten an adequate breakfast. Special effort should be made to have family members eat together at a well-laid table and in an atmosphere of peace and harmony. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Regular Exercise and Fresh Air Daily exercise and fresh air are important to good health and a feeling of happiness. Walking to work, to church, to market, to school, on errands, etc. Provides opportunity for exercise. Exercise develops muscles and improves the general tone of the body. Games, walks, outdoor chores, such as gardening and mowing the' lawn are all good forms of exercise. 3. Adequate Rest This should include two things — sufficient sleep at night and adequate rest during the day from tensions and drive. Both are important to good health and to a general feeling of peace and happiness within oneself. Adequate sleep — depending upon the individual — is necessary for all adults, and an hour or two more is needed by young people. Authorities say that for optimum health the regularity of sleep should not be broken too often. Mothers often think they are too busy to take an afternoon rest, and yet the more one has to do, the greater the need to plan for regular rests in order to accomplish the work. 4. Regular Medical and Dental Care Physical defects in family members should be _ corrected, then regular check-up visits made. Departing from these four basic rules of healthfal living can bring on unhappy and even tragic practices. Latter-day Saint parents must be vigilant against the formation of any addictions in themselves and in their children, and they must be alert to signs 627 AUGUST 1964 pointing toward them. Even. In times of stress, it is usually best to depend upon our own good health and good health habits to carry us through. We should use medication only on the advice of a physician and withdraw from its use at the earliest possible time. Whenever our bodies become fatigued and weary, we should give them rest rather than stimulants. We as Latter-day Saints, should respect our bodies — giving them proper food at proper intervals, getting sufficient rest and sleep, exercising and getting fresh air, and visiting the doctor and dentist at regular intervals for check-ups. LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 2 — Literature ''Tasted... Swallowed... Digested" For Third Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight. From experience we have learned that as various foods come in contact with the taste buds on the tongue we are able to detect the bitter from the sweet, those that are pleasing to the taste, and those that are distasteful, those that, when swallowed and digested, will produce nourishment and strength to our bodies versus those that will make us ill. We have learned, too, that because of the many integral parts of the body we need a wide range of variety in 628 foods to meet our various needs for nourishment. In a like manner, as we subject ourselves to variety in literature, we develop specific tastes (likes and dislikes). From the thoughts that are kindled and stimulated in our minds as we swallow and digest that which we read, we develop the ability to appreciate that which is beautiful, appropriate, and educational from that which is sensual and demoralizing. As we need variety in our food to sustain and nourish our bodies, so also do we need variety in literature to feed, stimulate, and sustain our minds to meet our many intricate needs for our direction physically, emotionally, socially, morally, and spiritually. FOUR APPROACHES TO LITERATURE In our first lesson we discussed the four possible critical approaches to literature. In the first one — the Platonic method — we look for "message" or meaning, using standards which we bring out of our own study and experience. The second — the Aristotelian — stresses the form or structure of a work itself. In the Longinian, or third approach, the author and his background are studied for additional insight, and in_ the fourth, or Horatian, we try to find out what reaction this work has called forth from intelligent readers over the years. FORM AND STRUCTURE — ARISTOTELIAN APPROACH The six examples of literary art which are presented as a supplement to this section of our text — "Of Studies" by Sir Francis Bacon," 'What Makes a Great Book," by Mortimer Adler, "Ode on a Grecian Um," by John Keats, "The Celestial Omnibus," by E. M. Forster, "Poetry," by Marianne Moore, and "Flower in the Crannied Wall," by Alfred Lord Tennyson — have in common literary excellence, but little else. They are almost disconcerting in their variety. Reading and reacting to them can be emotionally exhausting and should be intellectually stimulating. In the first place, note how different effective writing styles can be. The balance and cadence of Bacon, "to THE LESSON DEPARTMENT spend too much time in studies is sloth; to use them too much for ornament is affectation," is echoed by the sonorous parallel structure of Sir Thomas Browne in "The Celestial Omnibus": "though it had solaced the vigils of Charlemange, or measured the slumbers of Laura.'' One suddenly remembers that these men lived and wrote in the day that the King James version of the Bible was translated. How perfectly appropriate this majestic - style is to convey profound truth. Contrast this with the fluid loveliness of the sounds in Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn": "What leaf-fring'd legend haunts about thy shape." What a different age and attitude they suggest. The beauty which is identical with truth for Keats is confessedly of the earth, but all that the physical universe can convey is suggested here. Once more, contrast Marianne Moore's "Poetry" with either or both of the above selections. Gone is the grandeur of Browne and the ardor of Keats. Instead, we have a series of prosy particulars which are as unornamented as a contemporary skyscraper. There's a_ get-thingsdone flavor to Miss Moore's poem that is distinctively modern. Note the shape of each stanza: I, too, dislike it: there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle. Reading it, however, with a perfect contempt for it, one discovers in it after all, a place for the genuine. Hands that can grasp, eyes that can dilate, hair that can rise if it must, these things are important not because a high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are. From the long opening lines we rapidly pare away at a thought 629 AUGUST 1964 until its kernel is exposed; then we go on without pause to the next large generalization which begins the second stanza, and this is dissected in turn. How scientific! How typical of the strength and weaknesses of our present culture. The foregoing comments on structure, sound, and shape use what is essentially the second critical method discussed in our first lesson. In this approach the form of a work is stressed, and the relationship of part to part within the work becomes extremely important. It should be noted, however, that the form tells us something about the time in 'which the material was written, and in doing so adds an overtone of the third method, in which the author and his background are emphasized. « — In Mortimer Adler's famous short essay he suggests that a book's "greatness" is not so much conferred as revealed by time, but we cannot be sure of the excellence of a work until "men everywhere" turn to it again and again. This is as clear a presentation of the Horatian approach, or the fourth critical method discussed earlier, as we could ask for. Yet, since a statement of critical principles is never a substitute for critical practice, it will be useful to consider the selections in this section in the light of their continuing appeal. Chronologically, Sir Francis Bacon's "Of Studies" is first. Three hundred years of discussion have not dimmed the sharpness of insight and nicety of distinction which characterize 630 this short essay. The diction may sound a bit old-fashioned on the tongue, but the proverbial wisdom expressed here is not outmoded. It has the convincing ring of distilled experience. John Keats' 'Ode on a Grecian Urn" is only about half as old, but the problem to be considered here has less to do with age than with what the English critic Matthew Arnold calls the "historical fallacy."" How much importance shall we give to a work as an expression of its time? The values of the Romantic period in English literary history are still being debated. To what extent is the fame of this poem dependent on our view of the attitudes expressed in it, or can this work transcend its time and stand on the ageless pedestal of perfectly executed art? As indicated in the discussion in our text, ""Flower in the Crannied Wall' reflects a point of view and a literary technique that are clearly in question in the minds of some well-trained critics, yet are not without vehement defenders. Adler's "What Makes a Great Book" is forceful statement, but it may not distinguish itself memorably when viewed in the perspective of many similar assertions over the last few hundred years. 'The Celestial Omnibus" and "Poetry" are still too new to be evaluated in terms of continuing effect. The extent to which Miss Moore's poem has been anthologized since its first printing, however, suggests that many people find this among the most persuasive of all poems about poetry. Our grandchildren will be able to estimate its living power. THE MULTIPLE WAY TO MEANING Perhaps we shall never get at the total meaning of a poem, essay, or short story unless we bring to bear as many critical approaches as possible, for what a work says is its complete impact. But some material lends itself to excerpting better than others. Bacon's "Of Studies," for instance, has unity and coherence, yet almost any line is meaningful out of context. We can all 'taste' the idea that "crafty men condemn studies, simple men admire them, and wise men use them." Such an assertion states its meaning, and we examine it in terms of its logic, its literal sense. Similarly, the striking comment by Miss Moore that poetry provides '"{maginary gardens with real toads in them"' can be lifted from its source effectively, but we can hardly take it literally. There is a quality to Miss Moore's line which is not in Bacon's statement. Part of the meaning of the poetic line is metaphorical, that is, one thing is being presented in terms of something else. We say that Bacon's line denotes, or points to a concept, while Miss Moore's line connotes or suggests several things. This is not to say that Bacon's idea may not start a whole train of mental associations. We may begin to wonder about the way our children are reading, or about our own reading speed or comprehension, but an emotional reaction that takes us off in several directions is not demanded at first reading as it is in Miss Moore's definition. The contrast between "imaginary garden" and "real LESSON DEPARTMENT toads" will suggest different things to different people, but all of them can be considered as legitimate parts of this line's meaning. If we analyze impersonally, we may be logically wrong or logically right, but if we react personally we can only be described as sensitive or insensitive. The more you bring to a work, the more connotative meaning it has. "Of Studies" and "Poetry" can be "swallowed" as well as "'tasted," but neither demands it. A poem such as Tennyson's "Flower in the Crannied Wall," however, must be swallowed or rejected, for it is not composed of a series of concepts or suggestions which can stand alone. A single idea is developed metaphorically. Each detail helps to build the final "meaning" of the work. You can reject this development, of course, as the one English teacher in our discussion of this poem does, but the poem is more than the sum of its parts and, in fairness, must be considered as a whole. E. M. Forster's "The Celestial Omnibus" can be both "tasted" and "swallowed," but it really needs to be "digested." It repays multiple reading with multiple meaning. In this selection a series of attitudes toward literature are not only examined, they are also evaluated. Contrasting points of view are conveyed in diction, style, and statement. This story is so constructed that each character is a developing symbol, and this adds richness and levels of meaning to the entire work. Note, for instance, how Mr. Bons begins to reveal himself when he mentions the "seven Shelleys" he owns. 631 AUGUST 1964 TRUTH VS. MEANING In "Ode on a Grecian Urn" Keats asserts that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." Such a statement has poetic meaning, this is, it sums up the intent of this entire poem as adequately as any few words can, but even this statement about truth need not be "true" to us if we judge its claim on the basis of standards not in the work itself. If we remember the distinction we set up in our first lesson between the so-called Platonic and Aristotelian approaches to literature, you will recall that only under the Platonic method are the message, or truth of a work, and its meaning the same. Under the Aristotelian approach we are not looking for truth so much as we are looking at relationships. If these relationships are skillfully presented — as they are in Keats' poem — we call these relationships the poem's "meaning." We have voluntarily restricted our standards for judging to those which we find in the work itself. As might be expected, this approach is popular with those who do not have strong philosophical or religious beliefs. As members of the Church, we have such encompassing beliefs that we are seldom at a loss to establish standards for judgment. It might well be argued, therefore, that for many of us the burden of Keats' "Ode" is meaningful but untrue. Judged by standards set up in the work itself the exclusive identification of truth and beauty seems inevitable. The various images which are presented so graphically are wonderfully evocative. This is physical beauty at its acme. But viewed from a slightly higher level, this is hardly all we "know on earth" or "need to know." At best, Keats' statement seems partial. To say this, however, is not to say that we can afford to ignore it. To appreciate the depth which Keats sounds in this poem is in itself instructive, for it lets us see how shallow our vision of the whole is in comparison with this beautifully plumbed _halftruth. The Mosaic law may be only a school master, but we hardly understand the New Testament concept of self-sacrificing love unless we have assimilated the Old Testament idea of fairness. So it is with our critical appreciation. If we insist that truth and meaning must be identical, we are not being fair either to our own basic beliefs or to a work which falls short of presenting them All the sensitivity which we develop in extracting meaning that is limited by the work in which it occurs, will be even more useful in appreciating the profound truths of the restored gospel. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the advantage of viewing a literary work from several critical perspectives? 2. On what basis may we surmise that some works will survive the time in which they are written? 3. What is involved in understanding the total meaning of a literary work? 4. Why should we study works whose "truth" seems to us to be limited? Note to Class Leaders: Longfellow's wife was not fatally burned at Christmas time as stated in the October Literature Lesson but on July 10, 1861. 632 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 16 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations For Fourth Meeting, November 1964 Objective: To point out that the place of honor for the Priesthood in the home is claimed on meritorious behavior.-... Govern your house in meekness, and be steadfast (D&C 31:9).... I exhort you, masters, fathers, and husbands, to be affectionate and kind to those you preside over. And let them be obedient, let the wife be subject to her husband, and the children to their parents (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses 1:69).... Let the father be the head of the family, the master of his own household; and let him treat them as an angel would treat them (Ibid., 4:55). THE organizational strength of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is found in the authority placed upon worthy male members. The same power, the Priesthood of God, which makes for the success of the Church, is a powerful factor in the health and success of the Latter-day Saint family when this power is properly applied to the life of the holder, and exercised in righteousness for the family as a whole. By tradition and by the teachings of the Church, the father is the head of the family. The responsibility of control (or direction or authority, whichever term one chooses to use) of the family is, therefore, in the hands of the Priesthood. That alone is not the important point, but the responsibility such a position of leadership demands is of vital concern. The foundation of the Priesthood power or authority is love. Love is expressed in thoughtful consideration of others and in assuming the responsibility for their well-being and individual expression. The head of the family, then, must be able to justify his leadership by his thoughtful and loving direction, through counsel and _ patience with each member of his family. In fact, his measure of success in his calling both as a father and as an elder in Israel is found in the success he attains with the members of his own family. Thus, in a period of social change the father becomes a pillar of stability for those about him, a strength in his wisdom and counsel. However, in all phases of his leadership, he and his wife are one, especially in the family responsibility. Among the important things expected of the Priesthood bearer in the role of a father should be: (1) Full acceptance of the opportunity of teaching and training the children. Too often this has been left solely to the mother who has certainly been 633 AUGUST 1964 very successful in many cases; but a man holding the Priesthood cannot excuse himself by leaving the teaching of his children to his wife. Together they must assume this responsibility. (2) He should accept the responsibility for the degree of order and discipline of the home, both for the group and for each member individually. The members of the family learn responsible activity at home more effectively than anywhere else in society. Every child should learn to respect the rights of others, to respect leadership, and even more important, each child should learn, first, to be a good follower if he is to become a leader. There is no place for brute force or whips. A firm hand and steady, at the proper time, will build character instead of trouble in the life of a child. Leadership in the family is not an excuse to force obedience on intelligent human beings. Priesthood cannot rightly be interpreted as dictation or unrighteous dominion. On the contrary, the Priesthood entails the responsibility to see that the best in human expression and experience is obtained through love, counsel, consideration, understanding and companionship for all members of the family. (3) A third obligation on the head of the family and the bearer of the Priesthood is to develop the spirit of at-one-ness spoken of so often in the scriptures. This can be accomplished by the development of unity and commonness of purpose made possible through love and understanding. The idea expressed in "if ye are not one, ye are not mine," applies first to the family as the basic unit of the Church. The 634 Priesthood does not simply represent authority to direct in the home, but it is the responsibility to direct, persuade, encourage, and lead in wisdom and charity to a common understanding and unity. The influence which the Priesthood should develop in the home makes an ideal setting for the active presence of true Christian principles in family life. The essence of the Christian spirit is love and the real power of the Priesthood is love. Love provides the ideal soil in which family experiences may thrive. Love cannot be a one-way affair for husband or wife or parent or child. It must be a mutual thing for balanced development in_ all members of the family. THOOD IN PR FAMILY Government is designed to give meaning and direction to group association. The word govern implies steering, direction, regulation and/or control. In our discussion of the head of the family we have pointed out that the responsibility for directing and regulating family life is in his hands. How he does it is of most importance. The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us the key when he pointed out that he taught the saints correct principles and they governed themselves. The Prophet at another time indicated that "The government of God has always tended to promote peace, unity, harmony, strength and happiness" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 248). This is the objective of Church government and must be the same for the family. The home is the anchor spot for establishing in the minds of the children the truths of the gospel. It is true that all men have their free agency. Each person must make his own decision from knowledge, experience, faith, and understanding. Knowing the law is important, but the blessings come from living the law. Performance is what counts. God never fails to recognize right living. The head of the family, if he is in tune with the Spirit of God, can receive special enlightenment in the direction of his family. To the honest and true Latter-day Saint, the only real restriction and restraining influence in the functicning of Church government is the restraining influence that comes from knowing, and being fully aware of the damaging results of wrong decisions. As has been said before, true virtue is knowing the gocd and the evil and choosing the good. The great challenge to the Priesthood bearer and his wife is expressed in the two questions: Are you teaching your family the truths of the gospel in an effective manner? How does your performance measure up to the standards taught by the Church? Every day parents are setting the pattern of living that may automatically become the pattern of their children. What they do overpowers what they say. Daily decisions, actions, and even thoughts become influences on children from their birth to adulthood. SOME COMMON AREAS OF PATTERN SETTING 1. Respect for law and order HAWAII Tours to October 12th TOURS TO OAKLAND TEMPLE Preview and Dedication October through November TOURS TO THE ROSE PARADE in Pasadena, California December through January Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 is fundamentally established in the home environment. When a parent boasts to the family that he broke a traffic law without being caught, he is suggesting to young ears that the evil is in being caught. Irreparable damage may be done to the child's attitude toward honoring, obeying, and sustaining the law. 2. If in teaching the Word of Wisdom in the home, the emphasis is placed upon careful selection of wholesome foods, the use of wisdom in all these things, the child will learn through a pcsitive approach to such teachings that good results from healthful living. Contrast the above situation with the example of having on your shelves or even sometimes on the table, things not in harmony with the revealed word. This last situation raises questions in the minds of grow- 635 1. I. ( BEAUTIFUL MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART VOICES _-ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen...........20 eee. ETERNAL LIFE—Dungan............25..... GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR-—Berlin —..............25 wenn llIN THY FORM—Maodsen..._..._.. EeHEAVENS ARE woolIF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen aLET ALL MY LIFE BE MUSIC—Spross _...... Oe s30 -..--LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT for Joy—Stephens _..............20 a... LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen _——_LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER—Verdi __.....2..- one20 onoLORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen ==... PRAIRIE LULLABY—Rich _........20 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 i t I; Please send the music indicated } \ { \ above. C] On Approval [J Charge (J Money Enclosed Name anne cecce ec ceccceeessecensceasccnnrececece ' Daynes Mice | 15 E. Lst South f / Salt Lake City 11, Utah} i oe eee eee eee eee Gee ee ee eee eee ee ee ee 2 ee ee Gee ee Gee Gee ee es eee eee ee es ee eee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe eee oe oe oe ing children that may result in unnecessary experimentation. 3. Honesty is too often given a secondor third-rate place in our teaching emphasis. Do you ever feel so tired and worn out, or for another reason, suggest to your child that he answer the door or the telephone and say you are not at home? Young offenders who have been apprehended for stealing and lying have been quite upset when offered a drink of coffee because drinking the coffee would be breaking the Word of Wisdom. To them, breaking the Word of Wisdom is more serious than dishonesty. This, it is hoped, is an extreme case, but just such an attitude could be created at home unless honesty is the standard policy in our example to our children. 4. Is your pattern of religious worship tied only to attendance at religious service on Sunday? Or do you have a reverent attitude at your work and in your home, thus creating a peaceful environment for your family every day? 5. Does your application of charity begin at home and spread to your neighbors and friends? Being as concerned about the welfare of each member of your family as you are for your own welfare, is the proper beginning for the application of the first and second great commandments. Love overcomes selfishness, pride, and hate. It fills men's hearts with peace and understanding. Love of fellow men is the real testimony of one's love of God. A: "BY PERSUASION AND LONG SUFFERING" The intricate task of directing one's family in accordance with the divine plan is a test of faith and a real measure of one's understanding of the gospel. The responsibility of the Priesthood is far reaching. Psalms 127:3-5 says, "children are an heritage of the Lord:... Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them." Being cocreators with God in bringing children into this world makes fathers and mothers accountable to the Father for the welfare of his spirit children and their successful return to his presence. Parents are responsible for the material necessities of life for the family members. Doctrine and Covenants 83:4 says, "All children have claim upon their parents for their maintenance until they are of age." In Timothy 5:8 we read, "if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel." But material things are not the most important requirements. In Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 25-26, the Lord says, "inasmuch as parents have children... That teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." And again in Section 93:40, "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth." These instructions cover the temporal, intellectual, and spiritBLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR 8 days — August 16 to August 23 Includes Earthquake area, Mt. Rushmore and Elitch Gardens BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY 27 days — August 29 to September 24 WORLD'S FAIR and NEW ENGLAND AND CANADIAN FALL TOUR 29 days — August 29 to September 26 LABOR DAY TOUR 3 days — September 5 to September 7 Includes Southern Utah's beautiful parks OAKLAND TEMPLE PREVIEW TOUR 4 days — October 3 to October 6 Includes preview showing of Oakland Temple and San Francisco HAWAIIAN TOURS October 17 to October 31 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inStruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2...... (55 Zone 6....... -90 Zone 3.1... 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5........., -80 Leave them at our conveniently focated uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, a Ews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 637 aw. - Come With Us To THE HOLY LAND including the MIDDLE EAST COUNTRIES Istanbul—Beirut—Cairo—Luxor Jordan—Israel Athens—Rome 21 Day All Expense Personally Escorted Leaves—October 8th Call or Write Murdock Jravel, Inc. (Your Experienced Travel Counselor) 14 South Main Salt Lake City 328-3161 Reception Invitations, Napkins, Albums, etc., featuring L. D. S. Temple designs. (Conventional styles 100 for $5.95.) Write for FREE catalog and samples. In raised lettering only $95 (Catalog airmail for 25¢ — Oakland Temple Designs) REXCRAFT - Rexburg, Idaho - 83440 638 ual well-being of the family members. The instruction to all who hold the Priesthood is to accomplish all that the divine plan includes in the spirit of love and kindness, long-suffering, patience and persuasion. (D&C 121:39- 46; 4:6). These instructions apply to activity involving the Priesthood and its functions. This surely would involve the operation of the Priesthood bearer within his own family. SUMMARY In s we can say that the father is nghtfully the head of the house, honoring his Priesthood galling and performing his duties in love and kindness. He must also recognize that the family is a joint agreement with his wife and she shares with him in all the values and blessings that the Priesthood implies. It should be understood that the honor and glory of the Priesthood come through worthy performance of every duty with an eye single to the glory of God. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. How can a family share in the benefits of the Melchizedek Priesthood? 2. What. Is the place of leadership for a wife and mother in a Latter-day Saint home? 3. How important is your behavior, and pattern of life in the development of your children? 4. How early do children become influenced by the attitudes of their parents? REFERENCES Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 68, 83, 93, 121. Book of Mormon, Alma, Chapter Ey Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapter 7. adult education in nursing < @ ls your family grown or mostly grown? Tributing member of society? An Associate of Arts degree? @ Do you want to become a technically competent, con- @ Would you be proud to serve as a registered nurse with @ Are you in need of dignified, remunerative employment? ) * '= EVENING CLASSES IN SALT LAKE CITY BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF NURSING Through the B. Y. U.-Salt Lake Adult Education Center offer a two year associate degree career in NURSING FOR MATURE WOMEN WHO ARE HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATES FOR COMPLETE au SALT LAKE ADULT INFORMATION J EDUCATION CENTER WRITE OR PHONE..: 28-032 i. FIRST CLASS STARTS SEPTEMBER 29, 1964 ~ Golden Wedding Annivers Ida Elaine James You left me, and | managed half a smile. | dusted half the staircase; all the while My mind half on my work... Around noon | perched on the piano bench, played half a tune; Your dear words running through my head, Walked half way round the yard instead. At dusk, the long day almost done, Upon my window sill sat half a sun. The moon came, full and whole, my sweet, And you came home to me, | am complete. Christie Lund Coles Where can one find the goodness of a child, Its innocence, its trust, its guileless charms, Who, even as a mother reprimands, Weeps for the reassurance of her arms? 639 ahdy Congratlalins One Hundred Five Mrs. Lizzie Dell Merrill Hillsboro, New Hampshire One Hundred Mrs. Chloe C. Spencer Aurora, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Annie Ericksen Benson Logan, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Mina Vernettia Williams Twitchell Spokane, Washington Mrs. Ellen Morris Marriott Ogden, Utah riet L. Bronson Woodland Mrs. Har Ogden, Utah s. Josephine Robinson Harris Mr: Provo, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Alice Spillett Gregory Union, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Rachel Fowles Peterson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Chelnecha Damron Barron Incom, Idaho Mrs. Lillie Potthouff Strache Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Fredonia Lioyd Baker Bicknell, Utah zabeth Anderson Maxwell Mrs. Eli Paragonah, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Elizabeth Sorensen Goshen, Utah s. Laura Ann Ewell Dennis Mr Visalia, California Mrs. Malina Morrill Lee Torrey, Utah Mrs. Emma Jacobs Williams Cardston, Alberta Canada Mrs. Sarah Isabell Brown Sneed Elwood City, Pennsylvania Ninety-one Mrs. Emily Jane Boyack Booth Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Violet Lunt Urie Cedar City, Utah Mrs. Daisy Nelson San Francisco, California Mrs. Annie Blight National City, California Mrs. Clara B. Lee Holbrook, Arizona Ninety Mrs. Francis Cask Kirk Salt Lake City, Utah h Elizabeth Fletcher Jones Mrs. Sara Orem, Utah e May Van Doozer Savage Mrs. Myrti Azusa, California Mrs. Abigail Kekoolani Honokaa, Hawaii Mrs. Amelia A. Cross Holbrook, Arizona New... From Deseret Book Relief Society Reading Course Volume OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS —An Anthology of Literature, Volume I (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Here it is! The first in a series of analysis of fine world literature. Out of the Best Books, Volume I, is the exciting, new Relief Society course outline for the '64-'65 and 65-66 years. Great literature from the pens of men like Robert Browning, William Wordsworth, Robert Burns, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and many others come to life with more meaning in this exciting volume. Here is a valuable addition to every LDS library! $2.99 | T Deseret Be Book | — 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE - ~% me (OOD MALL 4A. East South Temple, AND AT COTTONW A. L Money Order (], Check), I have an account, please charge [_] Oe1D).1 | (cere Restients of Utah Had 3%% sales tax. SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Salt Lake City, Utah Dear Sir: Enclosed please find $3.10 for my copy of Out of the Best Books Volume |. Have you ever seen a check for $19,433.77? Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Have you ever seen a bonafide check for $19,433.17? Neither had Mollie Hobson. Life had little to offer Mollie but hard work and loneliness. Well past fifty and a widow, her last boy, Jerry, was forced to seek employment as a farm worker in a community a considerable distance from home. Jerry failed to mention his purchase of a $10,000 Beneficial insurance plan, but in the few blinding seconds before the fatal automobile accident which took his life, perhaps the thought of that fortunate purchase flashed through his mind. Since the policy carried accidental death benefits doubling the face amount, the proceeds would have been $20,000, except for the fact that in settling proof of death, it was discovered that Jerry had misstated his age as somewhat younger than his actual age. It was necessary, therefore, to deduct $550.56 to adjust properly the discrepancy in age. A grateful mother will now enjoy some modest comfort and freedom from worry thanks to the foresight of a loving son and the wisdom and miracle of life insurance! From the Benefictal Life files BENEFICIAL LIFE Company Sasurance Over 600 million dollars of life insurance in force. Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Reliet eGocicety Magazine B Volume 91 Number 9 September 1964 Lessons for December The: Christie Lund Coles Summer is gone — deftly, greenly drawn — Autumn supplants her with its fiery leaves; Its birds that peep more warily at dawn; Its croak of frogs; its wind that softly grieves; Now is the time for stubble on the land; For skies mist-hidden by the hazy air; For the musk of withered flowers in the hand; For fruit too heavy for the bough to bear; This is not only death, but triumph, too, For rich fulfillment and the pearly frost; For hills that wear a more flamboyant hue; For sustenance against the summer, lost. This is the harvest, jeweled and inlaid. How good the sun against the infrequent shade! The Cover: Relief Society Singing Mothers in Front of the Mormon Pavilion at the New York World's Fair, June 24, 1964. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Mirror Lake, Near Lake Placid, New York Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes 641 | cannot go out to Relief Society meetings now, but | read every word of the Magazine. In the June issue the picture of Sister McKay was very lovely. | enjoyed the story ''The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday,' by Helen Nielson, which emphasizes kindness and good family ties. It was a pleasure to read "Happiness in Flower Arranging," by Maude W. Howard. Thanks so much for the Magazine. Frances R. Stoker Ogden, Utah The sewing hints and patterns which have been published in The Relief Society Magazine are very interesting. The recipes, too, are delightful to use. In fact, the whole Magazine has all the better features of any magazine, especially the stories and poems, so clean and refreshing. Margaret Perry Junction City, Kansas | am so glad every month that | have The Relief Society Magazine in my letterbox. I love the Magazine. | learn so many new things when | read the Magazine. | am living in Malmo, Sweden, and in our branch here there are many subscribers to the Magazine.! Also learn to read English more easily and to speak more correctly by reading the Magazine. Mrs. C. Fryksmo Malmo, Sweden After reading Lois Tanner's article in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine, ''A Tribute to. Relief Society Presidents,'' | was sure she meant our Relief Society president Janene Bates. She makes each member feel important and needed. Her smile at meetings seems to be especially for each sister, although there are dozens of us there. | love Relief Society, the lessons, and the Magazine. Gladys Morrison Susanville, California 642 | especially love the beautiful colored pictures used as covers for The Relief Society Magazine, so imagine how pleased! Was when | found this joy shared by another. Who was that other? A young missionary here in the North British Mission. He came visiting when | had my Magazines out for binding. His first words when he entered the room were: ''Oh, Relief Society Magazines! There may be a picture of my mountains.'' Where are his mountains? American Fork, Utah. We found two pictures: the cover for September 1963, and the frontispiece for October 1963. What a joy this brought to one so far from home. Elsie Lee Whitefield, Lancashire England | am a young homemaker married just one year. The Relief Society Magazine is truly one of the highlights of my life. The stories are always heartwarming and tender, and | especially enjoy the sewing hints. Words cannot express the love and deep admiration | have for the Magazine. Carol Hood Blackhurst Pleasant Grove, Utah | enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful. —Eileen Mecham Cleland Rawlins, Wyoming | think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. | want especially to thank-Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher meassages. | often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings. —Rayella Richardson Santa Barbara, California The Relief Society wasazine oVolume 51 September 1964 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 645 The Presence of a Prophet 647 Nursing and Nurse Training in Relief Society Irene B. Woodford 666 Relief Society Magazine Receives Outstanding Award 668 Singing Mothers Concerts at the New York World's Fair Marianne C. Sharp 672 Relief Society History and Activities (Distributed at Singing Mothers Concerts, New York World's Fair, June 24-25, 1964) Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 654 Your Heart to Understanding — Chapter 8 (Ccnclusion) Hazel M. Thomson 660 Mr. Lewis and the Ravens — Part II Ilene H. Kingsbury 691 Snakes, Snails, and Puppy Dog Tails Janice Dixon General Features 642 From Near and Far 663 Placing The Relief Society Magazine in Public Libraries Ferrel Christensen 664 Editorial: The Standard of Liberty Vesta P. Crawford 667 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 690 Hannah Nyquist Specializes in Making Afghans and Rugs 695 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 720 Birthday Congratulations Lessons for December 702 Theology — The Church Independent Roy W. Doxey 708 Visiting Teacher Message — "Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor...." Christine H. Robinson 710 Work Meeting — Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine 712 Literature — Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part I Bruce B. Clark 717 Social Science — No Lesson for December Poetry 641 How Good the Sun— Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles Wide Autumn, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 666; Old Wagon Wheel, by Jeanette Swanson, 694; On Seeing a Son off to School, by Evalyn M. Sandberg, 707; Autumn Raiment, by Ethel Jacobson, 709 Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 0 year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payoble in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old ond new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, ot the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. y e Ssed their admiration and their reverence for Presiden; M Kay as a teacher Of great a COmplishments, a far-tray. Eled Missionary, an inspired leader, and asa Witness of the Eospel to 'ist and the restoration of the ever] ting 80Spel in its appointed ime and p: Many thousands amon those of vari 8 the Nations » the young an 8es, in Seneroug or » aNd those of lesser © Presence of the Prophet, ang Spiritya] blessing. Ous langy d the old, Meager Conditions, the °pportunit — thousands have felt thereby have known a Tanscendent €W Ward in a new] I man spoke in the World. Ousands 4 prophet of the Lord live d yet, Perhaps dearest and most Precious to the man hurch members, jg the testimo » the Conviction that § us and bears Witness of Jesus the SEPTEMBER 1964 of a Prophet. I have heard his voice, and I have looked upon his face." A young child, standing near the Tabernacle door at conference time, looked from his small stature to the tall height of President McKay and reached up his hand, confident and joyful to participate in a privilege and a blessing. A student, learned in the prophetic teachings of the Bible, and, after being converted to the Church, an ardent reader of The Book of Mormon, has testified that when she was privileged to meet President McKay, personally, she felt a sense of joy and exultation which still abides with her, because she felt that she stood in a similar atmosphere of faith and strength, as surrounded the prophets of old —those who in former generations testified of everlasting truth. Now that the stakes of the Church number nearly four hundred, and the missions have increased throughout the world, the voice and the words, and the presence of the prophet give strength, wisdom, and a radiant spiritual uplifting to new members of the Church, as well as to those who were born within its folds. It is well that, in this time of world-encircling communication, the message and the testimony of the prophet, President David O. McKay, have been taken by television and by radio and by the printed word even to those few distant places wherein President McKay has not traveled. Relief Society women in their responsibilities as wives and homemakers, as exemplars and teachers for their children, and as leaders among women, in all of these callings the sisters rejoice in the testimony of President McKay. He has spoken as the prophet words of truth that shall be treasured throughout the generations, words that have guided and inspired the people of this day, words that will be a heritage in the time to come, for as the prophet Nephi declared long ago, the words and the teachings and the testimony of a prophet are for all people in all time. They "shall go from generation to generation as long as the earth shall stand; and they shall go according to the will and pleasure of God; and the nations who shall possess them shall be judged of them according to the words which are written" (2 Nephi 25:22). Among the many treasured declarations of President McKay, in his testimonies of the truthfulness of the gospel, words such as these are with us as a continuing blessing: Out of eternity come the years and into eternity they go... What then should be man's greatest purpose as he marks one by one the passing years? It should be to cherish those attributes which, like his soul, will endure and brighten throughout all eternity. Life is before you; not an earthly life alone, but an endless life — a thread running interminably through the work of eternity.... I believe that God... Is our Father and desires the happiness and eternal life of his children.... Men may choose the right or they may choose the wrong; they may walk in darkness or they may walk in the light; and mind you, God has not left his children without the light (Secrets of a Happy Life, pp. 90-91, 119). 646 Nurse: Irene B. Woodford Member, Adult Committee, All-Church Coordinating Council, Former Member, Relief Society General Board THE wailing cry of a newborn babe floated over the cold night air. Before the appearance of dawn, nine infants were born to mothers in exile at the temporary camp at Sugar Creek, nine miles across the Mississippi River from the beloved city of Nauvoo. Mothers and babes were as adequately cared for as_ possible, under the trying circumstances of bitter cold and inadequate shelter by kind and_ compassionate sisters acting under the authorization and blessing of the Priesthood of God. The Prophet Joseph Smith had called and set apart a number of women, among them leaders of Relief Society, to go among the sick and afflicted in Nauvoo and minister to their wants. President Emma Smith, Counselor Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Secretary Eliza R. Snow, and Treasurer Elvira A. Cowles were so called, as were Sarah M. Kimball, Mary Fielding Smith, Mercy R. Thompson, Marinda Hyde, Mary Ann Hyde and others. These sisters and those called and set apart later by President Brigham Young and other General Authorities, ministered as midwives and nurses in the camps of Israel as the saints trekked westward across the plains. The need was great for women with faith, aptitude, and the necessary skills to perform these services during the memorable exodus of modern Israel, for "mothers gave birth to offspring under almost every variety of circumstance imaginable, except those to which they had been accustomed; some in tents, others in wagons — in, rainstorms and in snow-storms." For many years after the saints arrived in the Valley of the Great 647 SEPTEMBER 1964 Salt Lake the responsibility and burden of delivering babies and caring for the sick rested primarily on the women of the Church, and Relief Society was at times sorely taxed to meet the urgent demands for nurses and midwives. One of the most loved and needed inhabitants of the farflung and scattered Mormon settlements was the practical nurse and midwife who, at all hours of the day or night and in every kind of weather, responded willingly and cheerfully to a call for help. "Go get Sarah" would be the cry — or "Jane," "Ann," or "Maggie." Whoever she was and wherever she lived, at a moment's notice the dependable and devoted midwife and nurse would hasten to the one in need of her help. Often the only "doctor" for miles around, these faithful women, many of them Relief Society presidents or their counselors, traveled endless lonely miles on foot, or horseback, by buggy, wagon, or sleigh through the deep snows of winter and the rain and mud of early spring, to bring babies into the world, set broken bones, cool fevered brows, and perform other healing services. Nor were the travels of these women without personal danger to them, for there were rivers to ford, blizzards to face, and the ever-present danger of a horse, racing over the rough countryside, losing its footing in the darkness of night. One midwife was "lost in a blizzard overnight," and on another merciful errand was "nearly drowned while fording a stream in high water time." Some of these early midwives and nurses had received training un- 648 der eminent physicians and in the midwife schools and hospitals of their native lands. Others attended nurse classes in Salt Lake City, for the need of trained women nurses was recognized shortly after the saints arrived in the Salt Lake Valley. As early as 1849, Dr. Willard Richards, Counselor to President Brigham Young, commenced a nurse class for women that included among its members Zina D. H. Young and Emmeline B. Wells, both later General Presidents of Relief Society. Practical instruction was given in midwifery, care -of children, children's diseases, etc. When Dr. Richards was absent, his wife Susannah Richards, a graduate nurse from her native England, taught the classes. Following the death of Dr. Willard Richards, the following notice by Dr. William France, Surgeon, appeared in the April 18, 1855, Deseret News: By Desire of the late President Willard Richards, and urged thereto by repeated solicitations from many of the Sisters; it is my intention on or about the Ist of May, to open classes for instruction on The Principles of Midwifery and the Management of Women and Children. The Course of study will comprise two distinct Series of lectures. One designed especially for the benefit of the Matrons practicing Midwifery. The other (of more general application) addressed to 'Mothers in Israel" concerning the management of Women | during Pregnancy, Lying-in and Nursing; and also the treatment of Infants and young Children.... Classes in obstetrics and nursing continued to be taught by private physicians, and women who could, took advantage of the opportunity thus provided them. NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY Blessed and set apart by the Presiding Authorities of the Church and acting under this authority and blessing, they performed a marvelous work, some of them delivering from 3,000 to 4,000 babies. As President Brigham Young blessed one midwife he promised her that if she would "trust in the Lord for help and guidance and not resort to drugs and patent medicine she would always be successful." This promise was fulfilled, for in her forty years of practice she never lost a mother and she lost very few babies. Another midwife stated, "I spent fifty years in the service. I confined hundreds of women and I did not lose a case." The medical equipment of these early midwives and nurses often consisted solely of poultices, plasters, and medicinal herbs. The pay received for their service was meager — from three to five dollars for each birth and care of the mother and baby for nine days. This payment was often made in produce — a little pig, two chickens, eggs, butter, wheat, beans, garden vegetables, or a few berries. Many times duties were performed without remuneration. As the migration to Utah increased and the settlements expanded, the hazards of childbirth became a pressing problem, and the need for women trained in midwifery became _ increasingly acute, for there were many settlements without any medical aid. Keenly aware of this need and earnestly desiring to maintain a low mortality rate among mothers and infants, the Church and Relief Society leaders began strenuously to promote the training of women in medicine and obstetrics. In 1872 Sister Eliza R. Snow canvassed for students in Salt Lake City "in view of opening a school of medicine and surgery for the instruction of females; that those possessed of nerve, energy and ambition for such a laudable life, might have opportunity for qualifying themselves." On July 15, 1873, President Brigham Young requested Relief Society presidents throughout the Church to appoint three women from each ward in the city and one from each settlement to study hygiene, nursing, and midwifery.. The bishops were instructed that, if necessary, the students be supported by the ward during the term of study. In speaking at a Relief Society meeting in Ogden, Eliza R. Snow referred to this request by President Young:... President Young is requiring the sisters to get students of Medicine.... Are there here, now, any sisters who have ambition enough, and who realize the necessity of it, for Zion's sake, to take up this study. There are some who are naturally inclined to be nurses; and such ones would do well to study Medicine, if they are inclined to do so. If they cannot meet their own expenses, we have means of doing so.... Those who go through this course should be young women. We have, in Salt Lake City, a Mrs. Barker, who proposes to teach.... Then, another class of women is wanted more advanced in age, who are natural nurses, and would be willing to study obstetrics; this lady is going to give a series of lectures for their benefit.... We have to get up these classes and attend to all these things. (Woman's Exponent, September 15, 1873). The school of obstetrics was 649 opened in September of 1873 and taught by Mrs. Mary Barker, by Seymour B. Young, private physiclan to President Brigham Young, and, for a time, by Zina D. H. Young, third General President of Relief Society, who practiced obstetrics for many years "and was always ready to exercise her faith and lend her outstanding abilities as a nurse." Many women came from the different settlements to attend this school. To alleviate further the urgent need for medical help, President Brigham Young called women who had special qualifications and aptitudes to go East and study medicine. Upon their return they were to spend some time teaching others in the frontier communities. Sister Romania Pratt Penrose, the first to go, obtained her medical degree in 1877. Upon her return she gave free lectures 650 to the medical class, replacing Sister Young. Private classes in nursing and obstetrics were given by Latter-day Saint women physicians over a period of fifty years, principally by Dr. Penrose, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, and Dr. Margaret Curtis Shipp Roberts, all Relief Society women, the first two being members of the Relief Society General Board. Dr. Ellis Shipp traveled extensively from Canada to Mexico visiting isolated communities and imparting of her knowledge, as did also Dr. Margaret Shipp Roberts. In 1893, Relief Society General President Zina D. H. Young accompanied President Wilford Woodruff to Idaho to canvass the wards and stakes in the Upper Snake River Valley and invite women to attend a School of Medicine to be conducted in Salt Lake City by Dr. Margaret Curtis Shipp Roberts. President NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY Woodruff emphasized ''that only women of courage, determination and abundant energy need apply, for they must be willing to endure hard work, long hours, and have the strength to battle the elements in their travels to the homes of those who needed aid." It was hoped that three women from each ward would be able to attend this school. On May 14, 1898, a special meeting of Relief Society presidents of the Salt Lake Stake was called to consider the organization of a Relief Society Nurse Training School. Stake Relief Society President Mary Isabella Horne told the sisters assembled that the proposed class had the approbation and blessing of the First Presidency and of the presidency of the Salt Lake Stake. It was suggested that the Relief Society presidents select four students from each ward, ranging in ages from eighteen to forty. The course would take from six to eight months and those who took it would be expected to devote some of their time to nursing the poor, when sick, in their respective wards. Relief Society General President Zina D. H. Young and her counselor Bathsheba W. Smith were present at this meeting. President Young "heartily endorsed the movement looking to the betterment of the poor and the suffering." Bathsheba W. Smith said, '' I hope the sisters will rally to the call and be a ray of sunshine in the home of the sick, good nursing will be sought for and I pray God's blessings on the class."" Dr. Roberts, who was to teach the class free of charge, said she believed the day would come ''when you will be proud to wear the cap and apron of the Relief Society corps of nurses." Relief Society presidents of eighteen city wards and five county wards heartily endorsed the movement and promised aid and support in the matter. This Relief Society Nurse School, which was placed under the direction of the General Board of Relief Society on September 13, 1902, was conducted until 1920, a period of over twenty-one years. A report on the progress of the work was given in the Woman's Exponent of March 1903. It stated that the Nurse Class... Has been doing good work and the ladies are making excellent progress in their studies.... It is of great satisfaction to the general officers of the Relief Society to know that such favorable advancement is being made because the first duty of the society is to care for the poor, the needy and unfortunate, and in order to be equipped for this work there is need of competent nurses, not only in large cities, but in country places, and almost more in new colonies. In this class of 1903 there were eighty-seven students from twenty-six stakes in Utah, Idaho, Arizona, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Oregon. The Relief Society Nurse Classes were conducted annually on an eight-month basis for students ranging in ages from eighteen to forty-five. One stipulation in the contract was that the students devote a specified number of days to charity nursing, under the direction of Relief Society, during the first year after their graduation. 651 SEPTEMBER 1964 Besides providing nursing service for those unable to pay, it was the purpose of the Nurse School to make provision for nursing service in those areas of the Church which were without such service, and also to provide inexpensive nursing service for Latter-day Saint families who could not pay the higher cost of a registered nurse. In line with changing conditions, the Relief Society Nurse Class was superseded in 1920 by a one-year course for Relief Society Nurse Aids at the Latterday Saint Hospital in Salt Lake City, the students being recruited by Relief Society. The course combined theoretical instruction with practical experience in bedside nursing under supervision, and was similar to practical nurse courses offered today. Forty-six nurse aids were graduated during the four-year period that the course was offered. Relief Society thus, so far as is known, became the first organized body in the country to put the practical nurse school idea into effect. In addition to the many years of nursing service and training of nurses by Relief Society, this organization also, over a period of years, gave monetary help in the form of loans to assist a number of student nurses. Topay, as in the past, the care of the sick is a vital and fundamental part of the work of Relief Society, and many hours are devoted to this service by its members. In 1963, under the direction of Relief Society, there were 32,666 eight-hour days of bedside care given to the sick, and almost 400,000 additional visits 652 made to those who were sick and homebound. Although Relief Society no longer sponsors nurse training courses as it did over a period of almost fifty years, it continues to support nurse training programs. It encourages women who are interested in going into professional training to consider the programs offered in. The College of Nursing of many universities. The Brigham Young University offers the four-year baccalaureate program, the three-year hospital diploma program, and, commencing in October of 1964, a unique two-year associate degree program which will qualify its graduates to work in staff nurse positions in hospitals and clinics. The graduates of this new program, if they so desire, may take the examination for licensure as registered nurses. Relief Society encourages women interested in semi-professional work to attend a_ vocational school for training as practical nurses. It also encourages mothers in many areas of the Church to take Red Cross home nursing courses. In recent years, as in the past, through its stake and ward organizations, Relief Society has recruited women to attend nurse training courses and has promoted nurse _ training through Relief Society conventions and quarterly conferences. Relief Society also compiles annually im the wards and stakes throughout the Church lists of registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, experienced practical nurses, and nurse aids. An interesting example of the value of this information in time of disaster or national emergency came to us from Australia. Re- NURSING AND NURSE TRAINING IN RELIEF SOCIETY lief Society President Mavis sociation for Practical Nurse EdCutts of the Melbourne Stake reucation and Service, and as a ported in 1962: member of the board of directors we keep a list of nursing sisters, and nurses js expressed by President we were thrilled to be able to send Spafford in these words: rescue at very short notice. The ReVast new demands are daily being lief Society organization js truly Placed upon our nursing resources wonderful, and I sometimes fee] that Expanding health Services of all kinds we could Say that we are prepared e steadily increasing number of hosfor any emergency. (The Relief Sopitals (our own Church operates sixclety Magazine, April 1962, page 314). Teen), the sTowing number of nursing President Spafford has personof many of our communities with their ally made many contributions in increasing Public health and other nursing through her service as vice-president of the National AsProfession, As the two ieaders left Lon's cabin to send for the Indian pony he would ride, Lon walked to the curtain and pushed it aside. Selena lay on the bed, her back toward her husband. "You heard, Selena?" "Ves," "T have to go, Selena." "So it seems." She lay without moving, refusing to face him. For a long moment Lon waited. "Selena...." She turned slowly. Lon bent low over the bed, but the look in her dark eyes stopped him, causing him to draw back, as it had done so many times. He straightened. "Goodbye, Selena." "Goodbye, Lon." He picked up his hat and gloves and turned toward the door. She reached out a hand, then drew it back quickly. Lon 654 Your Heart to Under Standing Hazel M. Thomson CHAPTER 8 (Conclusion) did not see her as he went out, closing the door behind him. Riding alongside of the Indian throughout the long night, Lon gained increased respect for him. He could sense the Indian's great reluctance to do this thing to one who had long been his friend, who but for injustices which Garra felt his people had suffered at the hands of the whites, would stili be a friend to Juan Antonio. Lon felt that night that he was seeing real courage for the first time in his life, although the Indian spoke little of his own feelings. "Garra and I were true friends, once. Now he knows only hate." Lon did not ask questions, allowing Juan Antonio to stop or continue as he chose. "Garra saved my life, long ago. I tell him I give him anything he asks. My colt. My white colt. That was what he ask. I give Garra My colt. He still rides it." Lon heard the note of pride in the Indian's voice. "Pye heara of the white horse Garra rides," said Lon. "The men claim there isn't a horse in all California that could catch it." "This is true," answered Juan. "We catch Garra, but not in a fair race." At the ranch Weaver welcomed them and stayed only long to pack supplies before i i and ranch hands to a place of hiding in the opposite direction from the road Garra would use. After Juan's braves arrived the hours dragged by slowly. Some of the Indians slept, but Juan had no feel for sleep. Neither did Lon. His thoughts turned to Selena. If she had only made some little protest at his leaving. But she had watched him £0, h calmly as though he were going to the spring for a bucket of water. Discouragement closed in heavily upon him. Perhaps this had hoped to accomplish, to one day win Selena's love, was after all impossible. It must have been past midnight when Garra and his men appeared. The firelight cast a glow on the copper faces of the waiting braves. They were awake instantly as Juan Antonio stepped to the door and called a greeting to Garra in his own his men horses in the Antonio moved swiftly, closing the door behind Garra. "Sq you join Us, Juan," Garra said. "The white men leave. We YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING have things to ourselves. When they come back, no house, we burn all up." Garra looked at the circle of braves before him. And then he saw Lon. "A white?" he cried. Ward Juan, as he saw the row of guns raised Antonio moved swiftly, removing Garra's own weapons, both gun and knife. "No, Garra He is not against his own," Juan answered. "Nor do I kill the white men. And you do not kill any more of them, Garra. We are holding you for General Bean." Garra turned one way and then another, his eyes wild with fright. "My braves! I command! They burn house now!" Juan Antonio turned Garra's own gun against the chief. "Tell them to g0 back to your camp, Garra. Tell them you stay for the night." Garra looked at the circle of guns confronting him. Through the open window he spoke a few sharply. And galloped back along the way they had come. Juan, himself, rode Garra's white horse back to San BernarThe black tail and black markings on the animal's head made it the most startlingly beautiful horse Lon had ever seen. E was more than a little surprised, as they drew near the fort, have Juan jump lightly to the ground and hand the horse's reins to him. "You keep Cajon," he said, taking his own horse from one of 655 SEPTEMBER 1964 his men. "I leave him here with you." Lon looked at the magnificent animal, speed marking every line of the horse's body. "But the horse is yours, Juan Antonio," protested Lon. "I cannot keep him." Juan shook his head sadly. "This day will be very hard to forget. The horse would only make it more hard. I do not want to take Cajon back to San Timoteo." Juan placed an arm under the horse's neck, patting the animal briefly. Then he mounted his own, raised his arm in farewell, and rode swiftly away at the head of his braves toward San Timoteo Canyon. Lon led the horse toward his room in the fort. Selena was cooking something in a large kettle over an open fire. Lon came near. "T'm back, Selena." "TI am glad, Lon." Her voice stirred: him; he felt she meant it. They sat together on a large log. As she watched over the cooking food he told her of the days since he had been: gone. "So that is where you got the horse," she said, her eyes on the fire. "Yes, Selena. Cajon is the finest horse I have ever seen. I would like to give him to you." "Give him to me?" "Would you take the horse, Selena? He's fine to ride." Selena withdrew her. Hand quickly, and walked away in silence. It seemed now to Selena to have been a terrific waste of labor and materials in construct- 656 ing the fort, rather than homes. 'We could be in our own home now," she complained to Belle, "rather than the whole camp crowded in here in the fort." "But Josiah says we would have had an attack, Selena, if the fort hadn't been here to discourage the Indians from trying anything." Then, at long last, using the finest woods just as he had promised, Lon finished Selena's home. They planted fruit trees and flowers and Selena, in her childless state, lavished care and attention upon them. People began coming to her for a start of daisies or asters or for grape cuttings, and her gardens were the pride of all San Bernardino. "Tf she could only have a baby to love," Belle. Said on more than one occasion. This, of course was Lon's greatest hope. "I think it would help," he had said. "She really wants one, Belle. I know that, and I've always felt that it might help to unlock all that she keeps stored up so tightly inside of her." THE night Juan Antonio's wife gave birth to a daughter, the Indian came for Lon. The squaw was dangerously ill, and Juan, as had other Indians with sickness in their families, came for the Mormons. Lon listened as Juan explained that this was their third baby. The other two had died. "You come," he said. "Pray over my squaw. It will be all right." "T will be there as soon as I can get Josiah," said Lon. With humility at the Indian's faith in the Mormon God being certain to answer prayer, Lon watched Juan Antonio mount his horse and ride swiftly back toward the canyon. Selena, knitting nearby, had surely heard, but she gave no indication. "Would you come, Selena?" Lon asked. Selena shuddered. "I'll go and stay with the baby and Belle can go,' she said, hurrying away from the disappointment she read in Lon's eyes. From that night on, anything that Juan Antonio would ever have could be Lon's just for the asking. He insisted that Lon find him a name for the child in his Indian Book. "Not many squaw names in the Book," Lon answered. '"'Mostly braves. Laman, Lemuel...." "Bad men," interrupted Juan. "T do not name my little squaw bad name." "Well." said Lon, "there is Samuel." "Samuel, the Lamanite. I remember," Juan said. He rolled the words on his tongue, liking the feel of them. 'That is good. I call the baby girl Sam." Lon smiled, but Juan saw nothing humorous in the decision. It was well into the springtime of 1857 when Juan Antonio came again to Lon asking for help. Smallpox had struck the small band of Indians in San Timoteo Canyon. Juan's squaw was dead. "T bring Sam to you," the Indian said, as Lon looked past him to where the child sat, still on the Indian pony. "We'll take good care of Sam,"' Lon said. "If she gets the sickYOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING ness we'll use all the white-man medicine we have." Easy enough for him to say, Selena thought bitterly. For several days she refused even to speak to Lon, beyond the barest necessities. "The nerve of that Indian!" she cried at him. "Bringing that child here when she may come down with the smallpox any day herself." "Juan knows we have the scar, Selena. I have told him about it, that it means we will not take the disease. He is only trying to help a little child. Don't think it was easy for him to leave her here." Selena was silent, thinking over what Lon had said. But the days dragged by. She could not even take the child to visit Belle now, lest her son become exposed to the dreaded disease. Then one evening Lon came home to find Sam playing happily with a rag doll Selena had made. There was a gay, red ribbon entwined in the jet braids. When the Sabbath came Lon insisted that Selena go to meeting with Belle and Josiah while he stayed with the child. "The baby is feverish with cutting teeth," Belle said. "You and Josiah go on without me." In the wagon Josiah was strangely silent and seemed ill at ease. Selena attributed it to the unusualness of the situation. She and Josiah seldom went anywhere without either Belle or Lon with them. Then, holding the lines tight and looking straight ahead, Josiah cleared his throat. "T've been meaning to talk to you, Selena. I know you don't 657 SEPTEMBER 1964 want to hear a sermon. You'll probably hear four or five before we get back so I'll be short. "IT watched you eating your heart out for a man who wasn't worth a tear. He was a crook, Selena. Belle knows it, but I was never supposed to say anything. Then I kept still about Alfred Quale. Belle said the decision was yours, but we were all-fired glad when he cleared out after he found gold so much more tempting than God. Now, seems to me, for a man who had no part in causing any of this, that Lon has had about enough mistreatment." That. Was all. Josiah had finished and he did not labor the issue, but his words troubled her deeply. Supposing, she asked herself, that her years of unhappiness had been just that, and not loyalty to a high and noble ideal. It was not only Josiah's words, however, but also a part of one of the day's sermons, that was to stay with Selena for weeks to come. "Apply your heart to understanding." These words were to stay with Selena as long as she lived. Perhaps, she told «herself, she not only had been making it difficult for everyone around her, but had been failing to live an important part of the gospel's teaching in regard to her fellow men. The short time she had cared for Sam in her home had brought to Selena the greatest satisfaction she had ever known. She found herself wishing Josiah would drive faster on the way home. Lon met her at the door. "It's Sam," he said. "I guess 658 she's getting the smallpox." Selena's heart pounded as she looked at the ugly spots appearing on the dark skin. The black eyes were bright with fever. The days and nights that followed were a nightmare to Selena, but they brought her closer to Lon than she had ever been. During one of the worst evenings, when the child had passed to unconsciousness, Josiah came to aid Lon in administering to her. For the first time in Josiah's experience he saw Selena in Lon's arms as though she really wanted to be there. "Oh, Lon," she sobbed, "ask God that her face may not be scarred." Josiah listened intently to the words as they came from Lon's lips, and he was impressed that Lon was praying, not only for the sick child before them, but also that old scars of long standing might be healed. From that night the child's recovery was swift, and though her body would always bear marks of the ravages of the disease, not a sign remained to mar the smoothness of her brown cheeks. THE summer passed pleasantly for Selena. There had been many rumors throughout the settlement since Brother Lyman and Brother Rich had both returned to Salt Lake in April, but it was October before the news was certain. Juan Antonio rode over to see Lon as soon as he heard. "You must take Sam with you," her father said. 'She will learn to read the Indian Book. And when she is eight-of-age she must have the true baptism." Lon gripped his friend's hand, realizing something of the cost to this man. "Sam is over to Josiah's, but she will be back for dinner. You will stay?" He saw the muscles in the Indian's face move. "No. It is better not. Will do the baptism?' "Y will do it, with authority and in the right way." Still Juan waited, reluctant to take his leave. Lon wished for something he might do in return. Not in payment for Sam. Nothing could do that, but as a token of esteem for Juan Antonio. Cajon! Of course! Why hadn't he thought of the stallion before? Juan objected but not so strongly now. "My mare will foal in the spring," Lon said. 'Perhaps I'll have a Cajon of my own." You Selena was all excited over the news that was spreading like wildfire through the settlement. "But why, Lon?" she cried. "Why are we going back? The crops have never been better. Fruit trees are bearing. Everything looks favorable." "We're being recalled, Selena. An army has been sent toward the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and President Young has sent word for everyone to come. We're going home." "Lon!" she cried. 'We can't go! Our house...." The look on Lon's face brought her words to a halt. Of course he would go. Nothing in this world could keep Lon Holiday from obeying counsel. "Yes, of course. The house." His voice was low, with a touch of bitterness. YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING "You may have the house, Selena, and our grain field and the cattle we have. With good management you'll get along. The Mormons again are in no position to bargain. Settlers will move in fast. And there are some who have decided against returning. You will not be alone." "You want me to stay, then, Lon?" "T want you to do what you want to, Selena." Lon was weary with the long years of disappointment. "Belle will care for Sam. You know, of course, that they are going back. There is no time to lose before winter sets in. I'm helping load their wagon _tonight." Lon picked up his hat and went out, closing the door behind him. So he was taking Sam to Deseret! Through the window Selena saw the girl running to meet Lon. He held out his hand and she skipped along beside him, keeping up with his long stride. Selena stood in the middle of the floor and looked around at the room. The air felt heavy and oppressive. What was home? Where was it? Nauvoo, Winter Quarters, San Bernardino — or the Valley of the Great Salt Lake? Even with an army on its way, it would never matter again. Wherever Lon Holiday was, that would be home for Selena. She ran to the door and flung it open. Lon and Sam were almost to Belle's door. "Lon!" she cried. "Sam! Wait for me! I'm coming." And the distance between them seemed longer to Selena than the trip back to the Great Salt Lake. 659 Mister Lewis and the Ravens Part II Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: Mister Lewis, an "outsider," who lives in the fields adjacent to a pioneer village, has befriended a widow and her seven children during an outbreak of diptheria. The mother expresses a fervent wish that her children will care for Mister Lewis if he ever needs help. His tormentor no longer looked leeringly about for applause for great or humorous deeds. Instead, as the boy shaded his eyes with both hands and became accustomed to the relative dusk inside, he saw the man backing into a corner with the hope of putting the pot-bellied stove between himself and a suddenly infuriated giant whose vehement anger volcanoed even before his chair came out of its tilt and his heels touched the floor. The bellow of protest which came forth through white teeth and black beard so startled the cracker barrel habitués that they, too, leveled their chairs and forgot to whittle. 660 It was incredible the volume of words, in three languages, that tumbled and rumbled from the outraged man. With cursings used only on mules, he flayed the coward who teased and taunted a sickly boy. In half-Mexican, halfUte, he called upon all heaven and earth to destroy this cur who had no heart. After that he threw in a French word or two that were so strange to these emigrant folk who had scarcely mastered English, that they cringed at implied doom. They stepped back a respectful distance, just to be out of way should justice be thrown at them in jagged, flaming swords. In fact, so versatile was this man in expressing his wrath, that each person in the store was led to complete silence and awe. A scourge, a curse bellowed forth upon the head of one who would offend a child, let alone one whose life had recently been snatched from a_ diphtheria-fe- vered grave. Would that the widowed mother could strike in defense of this son who was on an errand of love. Would that his brothers could hang this uncouth rascal by his thumbs. The tumult and rumble of violent speech reverberated. The glass chimneys which rested ina wire cage hung from the ceiling shimmered and rattled. The proprietor became anxious for his property, if not for the life of the miscreant. To this point not another word had been spoken. Most of the men searched for words to match the ones which indicted _ this troublesome fool slinking in the corner, but each gave up the fruitless quest. The boy was so fascinated that he had to absorb a bit of it to realize this speech was cast forth in his defense. When that thought came, he became afraid that action would follow in which blood would flow. He felt impelled to prevent such a deed, so he called out, even to screaming, "Mister Lewis! Mister Lewis! Come here to the door!" The blasting, thunderous tirade erased itself. The store owner, the bystanders, the offender, all leaned forward to see what would happen next. Mister Lewis, he of the violent language, swung himself about and strode to the door. The boy backed away. Mister Lewis unlocked the door, then opened it, then beckoned the boy to come on in. Wit greater strength than he had shown heretofore, the boy obeyed the order. He came forward to the end of the counter and waited. Mister Lewis reached MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS for the basket of eggs and shoved it toward the petrified clerk: No one moved. A daguerreotype could have been taken of that country store and its various characters as they awaited judgment day. Mister Lewis considered himself well rid of the trivial, the inconsequential, the obnoxious, the ignorant. His very silence shocked them. His total abstinence of invective from that moment left an absence of dignity on the manure-booted prankster. The boy reached for his basket, now emptied of eggs. In its shadows rested a small brown paper bag of "store" sugar. It bore a crayon mark of "Yo |b." A typical purchase had been consummated. Silence. No nailed heels scraping on the random width floor. No hissing on the pot-bellied stove. No clink of the crowning of kings in the corner where waged the perpetual tournament of checkers. Silence. The boy left the store. A miracle had happened within him. Tremors, shyness, the palpitating after fever, all were displaced with the dignity of righteous indignation given him by a more experienced man. His next basket of eggs would be carried in strength and pride. From now on he believed in boys wanting to be men. Mister Lewis also left the store. No leer of triumph, no parting blow, no glance of disdain was cast by him. He ignored the afflictor of little boys. He did not glance at loafers who enjoyed practical jokes. He touched the rim of his hat to salute good day to the proprietor. He turned to- 661 SEPTEMBER 1964 ward his fields to the west of town. As he passed some willows growing on the ditch bank, he cut one off with his pocket knife. As he walked and thought he flicked the wood against his boots. THE small boy did not know what to think. He knew that the life of Mister Lewis was not as that of other men. Nor were his words or ways. No wonder townsmen thought him odd, even queer. The boy did not know what to do for a benefactor who failed to recognize one when they met, or whose remote abode did not invite visitors. He was almost home before. He recalled his mother's reference to a far future day when Mister Lewis might need help. And then, she decreed, even if it were in fifty years, any or all of her seven children should take care of Mister Lewis. The boy thought that a whole lifetime of looking after Mister Lewis was a high price to pay for a few gallons of milk on the hoof. And after the store episode, what more did Hebe now owe Mister Lewis? It could be a burden heavier than one small boy should carry. ~ * * * Livinc is for wandering and jaunting and patrolling and straggling and gypsying. It is for going in a file in a straight course, and being whipped into line by ideas and faith and love. It is for traversing a continent, for revisiting scenes of _ stick-horse days, for pilgrimage and plodding, for lilting voices with a mandolin in the hands. Living is for toil and sorrow and second chances and better judgment. It is for conquering and humility and 662 smiling, the eyes saying yes, and shaking the head no. And sticking by it. Living is for finding cabbages and kings. At no time had Hebe seen Mister Lewis in, say forty years, and his mother's reference to saying thank you grew dimand was quite forgotten. Then, one morning as Hebe stood in the doorway of his business establishment, he sighted a man slouched in the shadow of the railway station across the street. The vigor of yesterday had lessened a bit; but the vague, evasive bundle of thoughts was there as always, entertaining, exciting, and permitting the man to be the complete hermit. His eternal habit of chewing on a twig and of using a larger stick or a cane was there to identify him as surely as a thumbprint or a statistical number. Hebe thought at first to run across the street, to grasp the man's hand in a shaking of fellowship. He lurched forward a step, then checked such an unMister-Lewis-like impulse. Thus, practiced, adult restraints snagged him before he got across the sidewalk. To cover the sign of indecision he turned and entered his hotel (for that was now his sedentary, prosperous business). He called to his manager to come and see who that was across the street. Yes, that's Lewis, sure enough—looking for a grubstake out to the Wah Wah Springs — thinks he has a horn silver claim that ought to make us all rich... But who wants to gamble on old man Lewis... Might never find an ounce! Hebe took a small notebook from his hip pocket and started to write in it. A list, it appeared to be, if you had seen it—on the left side going down the margin, one saw: donkey; shovel; pick; frying pan; canned goods; blanket; chamois skin pouch with $200; rope long enough for a good diamond hitch. On the right side he wrote, not a balancing list, but more of a memorandum: six weeks milk on the hoof; one screen door with a gate spring on it. Biblical birds —ravens, mother called them. MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS He tore out the page, then ripped it in half, up and down, -which gave him two lists. He handed his manager the left portion and said, ''Fix Mister Lewis up with these things, say by sundown. I think he wants to head out into the desert to see what he can find." He folded the right half of the page and inserted it in the back flap of his billfold. As he turned to greet a paying guest, he smiled. Across his eyes could be seen the look of a boy of seven or eight. Placing the Relief Society Magazine in Public Libraries Ferrel Christensen I recently returned from laboring in the Northern States Mission. While there, one of the things that most impressed itself upon my mind was the fact that many people are far more affected by seeing the gospel in action than they are by doctrinal arguments. For this reason I was very grateful for the copies of The Relief Society Magazine which we had to leave with people. I was only sorry that we didn't have many more. Nothing could be better designed to show the "fruits" of the restoration than The Relief Society Magazine. Since it is such a wonderful missionary tool, I was often led to wonder if some way could be found to make it available for touching the hearts of more women. The possibility that comes to me recurrently is this: could not subscriptions to the Magazine be given to local libraries around the country? While I was in Waukegan, Illinois, we visited the town library with this in mind. We showed copies of the magazine to the librarian, who was very much impressed with its quality. She said that they would be delighted to receive this periodical, but could not appropriate money to purchase subscriptions because there was, as yet, no local demand for them. The amount of good that could be accomplished in this way would be tremendous; people who are eager to talk to the missionaries would be attracted by the colorful and interesting magazines, thus opening up previously inaccessible homes to the gospel. 663 EDITORIAL And it came to pass also, that he caused the title of liberty to be hoisted upon every tower which was in all the land... And thus Moroni planted the standard of liberty among the Nephites (Alma 46:36). THE Book of Mormon abundantly testifies of the blessings of law and order in the government of nations and of the individual people who composed those nations. Moroni, in ancient days upon the American continent, called his ensign of government ''the standard of liberty," and it was his constant prayer that the ''freedom of the land might be favored.'' He rejoiced when laws were established upon the fundamental principles of freedom and obedience. It was then that the people achieved personal happiness, and peace was like a benediction in all the borders of the land, for there were ''but few who denied the covenant of freedom." The history of the world from earliest times gives evidence of the difficulties encountered by individuals and nations in their attempts to raise the standard of liberty so that men and nations might achieve that grandeur of accomplishment and the blessings of peace which can come only through an understanding of and obedience to the intricate relationships between free agency and law. Those who have been privileged to receive, through the principles of the gospel, illumination and enlightenment of the basic principles of liberty and obedience are indeed blessed. And well they may rejoice to know that their own lives and the lives of all who have lived or will live upon the earth have this transcendent opportunity of free choice given them in the premortal kingdom. Thus the glory of mortality and the element of choice that it guarantees are aspects of an eternal principle that has existed forever for ''I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free' (D&C 98:8). The standard of liberty and the free agency of mankind were of The Standard of Liberty great concern to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his teachings reveal the fundamental law of liberty to be a dominant principle of the gospel. Liberty, however, is not to be confused with license. The Doctrine and Covenants, in many passages, emphasizes ''the freedom of obedience."' Counsel and commandment are emphasized as being required direction for all. ''Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes"' (D&C 88:86). The last three Articles of Faith explain in words of eternal significance the Latter-day Saint belief regarding freedom and government. The eleventh Article of Faith illuminates the concept of religious freedom and requires that we ''allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how, where, or what they may."' This would indicate a respect for the rights of all men in their freedom of choice. Article Twelve counsels obedience, ''honoring and sustaining the law'; and the last Article of Faith enjoins upon the saints the cultivation of those qualities and aspects of character which adorn all people whose conduct is disciplined in accordance with law — ''We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men." Freedom and law, then, are not designed for temporary judgment upon the earth, nor should they be as a blessing for only part of the children of the Heavenly Father. Freedom and law were established in the courts of heaven, ''according to the laws of the kingdom of God which are given by the prophets of God' (D&C 58:18). In July of 1964, President David O. McKay, our prophet, declared: ''Freedom of choice is more to be treasured than any possession earth can give." "Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold V. P. C. Relief Society Magazine Receives Outstanding Award The Relief Society Magazine for March 1964 received the Mead Award of Merit, given by the Mead Papers Company of Dayton, Ohio, for excellence in editorial content, illustrations, color reproductions, and printing. The award was presented to President Belle S. Spafford at a special luncheon given by John Stagg, representing Mead Papers. Others in attendance at the luncheon were members of the Magazine editorial staff and Deseret News Press representatives. Specifically the award states: We doubt if any other religious denomination surpasses The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the quality and extent of its use of the printed page in maintaining contact with its members. The Relief Society Magazine is an outstanding example, with its excellent editorial content, covering a wide variety of subjects, and charming illustrations. Among the many fine articles in the March issue, one of the most interesting to those of us engaged in the graphic arts was the story about ''Painting With Glass.'' This is a fascinating description of feminine creative talent, versatility, and enterprise that blazed new trails.... Wide Autumn Dorothy J. Roberts Autumn stretches the The valleys spread And stand in tte j —,! Winter blinds — but the This layered splendor in between. Wide and long the meadows. Reach; The gold of stubble 'brighten 1 Vision' stretche: -. T p b op 3 - ' —) « mw Ramona W. Cannon NURSES, both registered and practical, are greatly needed in the United States and in other countries. The modern nurse must lead as well as perform, and supervising nurses are in great demand, according to Dr. Eleanor Lambertsen, chairman of the department of nursing at Cojumbia University Teachers College. "A nurse must be able to move efficiently from situation to situation. Professional nurses today frequently find themselves moving away from the bedside to fill administrative roles." ELAINE B. EVANS, of Berkeley, California, is the sculptor of the impressive life-size statue of Adam and Eve which is receiving much favorable comment from visitors to the Mormon Pavilion at the New York World's Fair. BLANCA ESTRELLA de MESCOLI is a Venezuelan composer who is winning prizes for her works, especially some lovely tone poems for which she composed both words and music. HARRIET ROTHSTEIN is a young pianist, nine, won in an original-composition competition sponsored by the Philadelphia Orchestra, which also performed her work. She has given concerts in numerous American cities and in several foreign countries. MRS. MARIA GOEPPERT MAYER, fifty-seven, LaJolla, California, has won the distinguished Nobel Prize in Physics, sharing the honor with a male colleague. Mrs. Mayer is Tre garded by many as "the greatest woman scientist in the world,'' as she is the only woman besides the great Marie Curie to win the Nobel Prize in Physics. Her research in atomic physics has given her the title "The Marie Curie of the Atom." She is known as 4 devoted mother and homemaker and was accompanied to Stockholm, Sweden, to receive her award by her husband, Joseph Mayer. MARYHALE WOOLSEY, 4 contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has been given the silver medal award by the Commonwealth Society ia for her juvenile book service in an early translation of the Bible into English. The book was rated as the best in the juvenile field published by a resident of California in 1963. FEDORA ALEMAN is 4 Venezuelan soprano of much beauty and gra ciousness aS well as talent. She sings in the United States, Europe, eSPpe cially in Paris, and in South America. She frequently appears in programs consisting entirely of Venezuelan music, making one such appearance in Carnegie Hall. 667 ew * Singing Mo =f hors pCoreaer es June 24 afd 25, 1964.: ingaen | o yn \ ' be: } rc ao: Fioin os oes pent pe Hs A ecisee a pve >. 29% @ oe 2 tetris sored os Leer ree Benge © Semen We ere 2 * i> seal * +, | +4 ' r. Canes \ pees Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 1 could believe that angel choirs joined with the Singing Mothers, the music was so glorious," so spoke one of the audience at the fourth and final Singing Mothers concert at the New York World's Fair. The four concerts at the World's Fair Pavilion, across the'street from the Mormon Pavilion, on June 24 and 25, were well attended, with many crowding in the back. A standing ovation and cries of "Bravo" were given the chorus at the conclusion of each concert. Those in charge of the activity acknowledged the goodness of the Lord as to the fair weather, the great numbers of Fair visitors who were attracted to the concerts, and the opportunity to acquaint strangers with this great cultural activity of Relief Society. The months of planning, hours of traveling, and days of rehearsals were brought to full fruition at the concerts themselves. "By their fruits ye shall know them," was truly demonstrated. The spirit at the concerts was one of devotion and a forgetfulness of self for the glory of the whole. The dedication to this service began in March when Sister Ellen N. Barnes (Mrs. Maurice R.), director of the Washington Stake Singing Mothers chorus and a concert pianist of note, was called by the General Presidency of Relief Society to take charge of a proposed presentation of a combined Singing Mothers chorus at the World's Fair in June. Sister Barnes proposed a program which included two numbers, one of which Sister Florence J. Madsen, chairman of the General Board music committee, had composed, and the 668 SEPTEMBER 1964 As the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, in 1842, that Relief Society would receive instructions through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in these latter days, so with this great undertaking. The First Presidency granted permission at the outset for Relief Society to present these concerts, and Sister Spafford, who is a member of the Women's Advisory Council of the World's Fair, was told to work under the direction of Elder Harold B. Lee, Chairman of the Church World's Fair Committee and an advisor to Relief Society. The plans were matured under Elder Lee's direction. Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker attended the auditions of the singers with Sister Barnes and acted as General Board coordinator throughout. President G. Stanley McAllister of New York Stake was appointed by Elder Lee to act as the general overseer and eastern representative of the activity, and President George H. Mortimer of the New Jersey Stake assisted with bus travel and housing arrangements at a new Howard Johnson Motel. Devoted Latter-day Saint men of affairs and others in key positions lent every assistance in arranging for the presentation at the Fair, for recordings to go over WRUL, the production, the decor of the World's Fair Pavilion, medical, and protocol service. President Bernard P. Brockbank, in charge of the Mormon Pavilion, extended every courtesy and directed the missionaries at the Fair as they assisted at the concerts. The General Presidency of Relief Society gave a luncheon in the Williamsburg Salons at the Better Living Center for distinguished non-Latter-day Saint and Latter-day Saint women leaders, including Eastern Relief Society leaders. Sister Nathan Eldon Tanner accompanied President Tanner of the First Presidency, who was sent by President McKay to represent the First Presidency. Sister Harold B. Lee accompanied Elder Lee. Sister Henry D. Moyle also traveled to New York for the occasion. The special luncheon guests toured the Mormon Pavilion before attending the first concert. Preliminary to each concert, President Spafford made short introductory remarks explaining who the singers were and speaking of the Relief Society. Preliminary to the first concert, President Tanner gave his blessing to the singers and conveyed the blessing and love of President McKay who would like very much to have attended. This was a support and comfort to the conductors and singers. Elder Lee delivered the invocation before the audience at the first concert and prayers before other concerts were given by President Wilbur Wallace Cox of Boston Stake, and President Bryan F. West of the Philadelphia Stake. It is not surprising that with such planning and support, and with the dedication and righteousness of the lives of the Singing Mothers, that the concerts were beautiful and successful beyond the fondest hopes of all who participated. Everyone who assisted did so in a humble, modest manner. The praise in the press and from those workers who were attached to the World's Fair Pavilion attest to the high purpose and propriety of the undertaking. A woman on a plane was heard to declare that she had heard 300 670 Singing Mothers Chorus at the New York World's Fair June 24-25, 1964 Mormon mothers sing and that they sang like angels. This comparison was heard on numerous occasions. Special praise is due President Spafford for envisioning the undertaking, and to Sister Florence W. Madsen for her part in promoting Singing Mother concerts of the past and for her special participation at these concerts; to Director Ellen N. Barnes for her humble spirit and the dedication of her great talent in training the Singing Mothers for the glorious success of the concerts; and the devotion, forgetfulness of self, and love for Relief Society and each other which characterized the Singing Mothers. Everyone felt it was a wonderful privilege to have had any part in this missionary endeavor. Truly the Lord smiled on this great Relief Society undertaking. Note: The next eighteen pages contain information on the history of Relief Society which made up a brechure which was given to visitors at the Singing Mothers concerts at the World's Fair. 671 41m HESLOP; The First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints resident Hugh B. Brown President David O. McKay President N. Eldon Tanner J. M. HESLOP The General Presidency of Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford Counselor Marianne C. Sharp. Counselor Louise W. Madsen The Prophet Joseph Smith 1805-1844 674 1 PAINTING BY ALVIN GITTINS he Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is probably the oldest national woman's organization in the United States which has persisted. It was organized on March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo, Illinois, with eighteen members. The Prophet Joseph Smith founded it and declared to the members:... I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads. PAINTING BY FRANCIS R. MAGLEGBY Nauvoo, Illinois, 1844 Plate Design From an Old Etching From that time when the key was turned for women, has come the great advancement of womankind over the face of the earth. From the eighteen members in 1842, the Society today has grown to over a quarter of a million members residing in every state in the United States and in fifty-one other countries. Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1842, was situated on the broad Mississippi, near the frontier of America. On the brow of the hill a temple was rising through the sacrifice of the men and women of the Church. Relief Society began its humanitarian services amid scenes of hardship and courage. Emigrants, converts to the Church from the 3. M HESLOP 675 Eastern United States and England, poured into Nauvoo by the hundreds, and during the first year of Relief Society's existence, hundreds were kept from freezing and starvation by the good offices of the Relief Society. In 1843, a service of visiting teaching was started by which Relief Society members in pairs visited every home, collecting from those who had means and alleviating the suffering of the poor thereby. The program began with sixteen visiting teachers. In 1963 there were 113,680 visiting teachers, who made 4,325,341 visits and kept a monthly watchcare over the mothers in the homes, although the needed assistance in a material Portraying Visiting Teaching in the Early Days Bs ta "42 J M HESLOP way is supplied today through the great Church Welfare Program. To this Program Relief Society gives vital sewing, canning, and other services. The visits to mothers of families in need are made by Relief Society local presidents (there are over 5,000 local Relief Societies) under the direction of the Priesthood leaders of the Church units. On June 30, 1843 at Nauvoo, the first Secretary, Eliza R. Snow, wrote: "More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipations predicted, and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future?" Relief Society Women Canning for the Church Welfare Program jm HESLOP ee eae Relief Society Deseret Hospital, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1884-1895 The "sanguine anticipations" were adequately realized in the year 1963. The loving tender ministrations of Relief Society members are revealed in this tabulation: Visits to the sick and homebound..............390,566 8-hour days care of the sick _.................--.... 32,666 Hours of other compassionate services....596,349 Nursing the sick was of early concern to Relief Society members. In pioneer days in Utah, Brigham Young sent Relief Society members east to attend medical school. Upon their return they conducted classes in midwifery and nursing. Today Relief Society 678 enlists women to go into the nursing field, and encourages mothers to have their daughters enter into the four year college curriculum, the three year, and also the practical nurse field. Women members of the Church were given the religious vote from the time the Church was organized in 1830. The pioneer women in Utah were given the elective franchise shortly after the women of Wyoming were granted it; however, since an election was held in Utah before one in Wyoming, a Mormon woman, Seraph Young, a niece of Brigham Young, had the honor of being the first woman in the United States to cast a ballot. This was on February 21, 1870. Caring for the Sick ee. 4 e. Ae ® " ae 8 e. Co 0 fa. ° s ie. S. E ® a e @ MISSIONS @ STAKES * RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS 680 Distribution of 262,000 Relief Society Members The Relief Society accomplishes the work given to the women of the Church. New Relief Society units are organized throughout the world as the Church enlarges its borders. Once a year a Relief Society general conference is held in Salt Lake City, Utah, with 10,000 Relief Society leaders in attendance from over the world. Once a year Relief Society General Board members journey to all of the stakes which are now located in Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Canada, England, Scotland, Samoa, West Germany, Berlin, Switzerland, and in the states of the United States to hold day-long meetings with the Relief Society leaders. Guidance is given in the two-fold program of Relief Society — welfare and education. bei ui ne 4 Relief f Society | Work meer Activities The welfare work consists (in addition to humane alleviation of material and spiritual want, illness, and bereavement) of homemaking programs, both theoretical and practical. Once a month a "work meeting" is held at which instruction on better ways of housekeeping and homemaking are discussed and practical assistance and demonstrations are provided in cooking, sewing, and all other types of handicrafts. The planning for this meeting throughout the 5,000 organizations is left to the individual Society, but stimulation and suggestions are provided by the General Board. In 1963 there were completed in the work meetings 687,091 sewed articles, and 367,803 non-sewed articles. "J M HESLOP 681 682 Susan B. Anthony (center) With Relief Society Leaders, 1895 Susan B. Anthony, the great national suffragist leader, was a friend of the Mormon women. In 1888 Mormon leaders were invited to attend a great congress of women called in Washington, D. C. The Relief Society sent representatives and Relief Society became a charter member of the National Council of Women of the United States and thus participates in the International Council of Women. The education year with weekly meetings is on an eight-month basis. Courses are given in rotation for the eight months in the fields of theology, literature, and social science. These adult classes stress the importance of class participation. These courses are written by experts in their fields under the direction of General Board committees. The purposes of Relief Society which they tend to acomplish are: To manifest benevolence, irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of woman's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the gospel. A Weekly Education Meeting Yt, a eel; fue 2 4. Ot AN. | Singing Mothers Chorus in the Salt Lake Tabernacle Singing has ever been in the hearts of Relief Society members, whether they were crooning to their babies in a wagon box, in a log cabin, or in a split-level home today. Singing Mother choruses are located in every stake. In 1963 there were 41,865 Singing Mothers of Relief Society. Concerts are held periodically in some localities, music is furnished for funerals, and choruses render music at small and large Church gatherings. An International Singing Mothers Chorus, made up of a few LORRY RYTTING Representatives of Relief Society of the Nations at Dedication of the Relief Society Building, 1956 Relief Society Singing Mothers from Utah, combined with Relief Society members of the British Isles, made a tour in 1961 in the British Isles. On June 24 and 25, 1964, two Singing Mother concerts, composed of Singing Mothers of the Washington, Potomac, Philadelphia, New Jersey, New York, and Boston Stakes, are being held each day in the Pavilion at the New York World's Fair. RAY G. JONES Under the tutelage of President Brigham Young a woman's periodical was begun in 1872, whose banner read "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." This periodical became The Relief Society Magazine in 1914. All the Relief Society courses of study appear in this periodical as well as instruction from Church and Relief Society leaders and the creative writings of women. It now has a circulation of over 220,000, and is a binding force in welding the Relief Society members together. Articles from The Relief Society Magazine are translated into the different languages and appear in the foreign Relief Society mission publications. In Salt Lake City, Utah, across the street from Salt Lake Temple Square, is situated The Relief Society Building, the headquarters of Relief Society. Over half Relief Society Periodicals of Many Lands - wa ' I+ 2fhcccaded a. —Phacotvo © er — 1, (0 CORRS J. M. HESLOP. a million dollars were contributed by Relief Society members in the one year October 1947—October 1948. This amount was matched by Church funds and the building site was allocated to Relief Society. Gifts from Relief Societies throughout the world adorn it. The interest in present-day activities of vital concern to women everywhere is nurtured in Relief Society. On a national basis support is given to the great national health programs through the pages of The Relief Society Magazine, and, through the personal attention of President Belle S. Spafford, contacts are kept with such worthwhile programs as the American Mothers Committee, and Practical Nursing, and the affiliation continues with the National Council of Women of the United States. Relief Society Headquarters, Salt Lake City, Utah Main Lounge, Relief Society Building The names of the great leaders of Relief Society are indelibly imprinted upon the progress of women throughout the world. Woman's advancement has come since the day in 1842 when the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women in this last dispensation. The restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ has restored to woman on earth her true place in the eternal plan. Relief Society is an ensign to women in the world. If there is anything "virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy," the members of Relief Society seek after those things. J. M. HESLOP '= 76.: 7" detdiea ba -: a Mrs. Hannah Adelina Johnson Nyquist, Weiser, Idaho, has: found much happiness in her handicraft accomplishments. She has made dozens of beautifully designed knitted and crocheted afghans, and many colorful crocheted and braided rugs. Her afghans are patterned in both striped and block designs, many of them original with Sister Nyquist. She has an exacting and harmonious sense of color combinations and uses. Advantageously color contrasts, as well. As various shades of the same color to make her work attractive and artistic. She is generous with gifts of her handwork to her family and friends, and particularly to her ward Relief Society for their bazaars. Now nearly ninety-eight years old, Sister Nyquist was born in Enkotang, Sweden, and joined the Church as a girl in her native land. She came to Utah in 1889 and lived for many years in Cache Valley. She is mother to eight children, grandmother to fourteen, and has several great-grandchildren. She keeps house for herself and a son, and that, she says, keeps her busy and happy. 690 Ir all started in the year of the grasshoppers — three years ago. My son Charles, then three, came rushing into the house. Little did I know then that the trend had started. "Mommy, Mommy," he called, holding a wiggling insect in his hands. "Tt's a grasshopper," I told him. I put it on the ground and showed him how it could hop. Then he discovered that there were other grasshoppers in the world. I found that there were erasshoppers in my world, too — in empty peanut butter jars, in empty fruit jars, in pop bottles, in tin cans — all collected for whatever reason little boys collect things. That summer passed, as did the grasshoppers, and my Snakes, Snails, and Puppy Dog Janice Dixon winter was peaceful. The grasshoppers were buried safely in the ground and no longer occupied window sills, toy boxes, bureau drawers, or cupboards. With the summer came new worlds to be collected. My son was interested in everything creepy or crawly. "I've just made some bird spaghetti,'' Charles announced one day. "That's nice," I said calmly. One must always be calm around children. "What did you make the spaghetti from?" I asked. This is always dangerous — asking children questions. They are likely to tell you. "Worms!" he said proudly. "I've got a hundred worms for the birds." I looked at the worms, long 691 SEPTEMBER 1964 and wiggly, placed in an aluminum plate waiting for the birds. When I had disposed of all the bodies I breathed deeply, knowing that my son was growing up. I hoped for an early winter. Christmas came and went and so did the Christmas trees — they went out of the homes and into our yard. "T'm making a tree house," Charles explained. Isn't that cute? I thought, seeing five or six trees piled in the backyard. 'The Boy Scouts will come and take them this Saturday." I went about my work until I noticed a green column like a procession of parasol ants, headed for my back yard. It was a parade of little boys lugging and pulling on sleds — more Christmas trees. I gasped when I looked outside. It looked like a Christmas tree lot in November. I called the Scout leader to make sure the Scout troop didn't miss our house when they disposed of the trees. Then I proceeded to disband the army of solemn-faced little boys who were only following General Charles' command. THE next summer brought the butterflies, but this was a passing phase, and only minor in comparison to the rocks. "Look at this beautiful rock," Charles said, turning the small pebble in the sun. I was delighted that the insect collecting would soon be replaced. His father took him to a museum and showed him the different minerals and metals, the hard rocks and the soft rocks. Something in my son's head started to turn. The next day I found a 692 bushel basketful of dirty rocks on my porch. "Who put these rocks here?" I demanded. "It's my _ collection," said Charles. 'They're very valuable rocks." I also found a collection of rocks in his pockets and in his shoes. "It's just a passing phase," said his father. 'It will pass like the others. I had hobbies as a boy. Every boy needs a hobby." This sounded sensible. Sensible, that is, until I found a second bushel basketful of rocks on the porch. While I was deciding whether to have a rock garden or start whirling missiles, my doorbell rang. A little boy, aged five, stood there, a large box in his hands. "Charles wants my rock collection," he said. 'Mamma said I could share with him." As I stood with my mouth open, a troop of other small fry marched to the rock basket and distributed their contributions. That night my husband looked at the growing rock mound and reached an immediate decision. "The rocks will have to go!" "Can't I have any?" Charles pleaded, the tears filling his eyes. We took a look at the rocks, then at his pleading face. "You may select twenty-five rocks," we decided. It was a hard decision. Each rock was more beautiful than the last one. But the next day all but twenty-five rocks were gone. They barely filled the bottom of the bushel basket. A few days later I looked outside when I heard the familiar squeak of my son's wagon. "What do you have?" I queried, seeing a boulder in the wagon. "Tt's just a rock for my rock collection," Charles announced. His shirt was dirty and torn. "I decided to have this one (indicating the boulder) instead of this one" (indicating a pebble). Then I noticed his two little friends, also with dirty shirts. "We had to dig to get this beautiful rock," Charles' explained. The three boys worked hard and finally got the rock out of the wagon and into the rock collection basket. It nearly filled the basket. What to do now? We had given our word that he could have twenty-five rocks, but we had no idea that he would choose such large ones. I thought there weren't many large rocks around the neighborhood, but he found them all. His father objected, especially when the rocks and sticks in the collection made their way to the backyard and had to be cleared off before he dared mow the lawns. Again I hoped for winter. This had been a hard summer. Steven, our second son, was collecting grasshoppers. I cleaned out fifteen bottles of dead grasshoppers the day the first snow fell. WiInTER came, and with it came kindergarten with all of the lovely pictures that a five-year-old can draw. I didn't mind the portrait of myself (cross-eyed and bald), but the thought of six fingers on one hand and four fingers on the other slightly unnerved me. One picture was nice, two were nice, but they kept comSNAKES, SNAILS, AND PUPPY DOG TAILS ing, one-two-three pictures a day. "Hang them on the wall," suggested Charles, "so that everybody can see them." I tried to throw a few away, but my son kept track of every one. "We'll make a book of your pictures," I said, after all the walls were covered. ''We'll choose only the nicest pictures to save." We threw bundles of papers away and narrowed them down to only sixty-nine pictures. Where shall I put these? I wondered. I got a cardboard box and put them away for the time being. Then the teacher, as a special surprise, outlined my son fullsize on paper. This life-sized paper doll stared at me from the wall for several months until I suggested we save it for posterity. Summer is coming. The warm air is bringing the flowers and the insects. I was making the bed the other day when a snake slithered in front of me. It looked like a rattler. "Charles," I screamed, running out of the room and closing the door, "where did you get that snake?" "From Jerome," he said. "Don't touch that snake!" I ordered. "Tt's only a garter snake," he explained, loftily. He picked up the snake and watched it coil and recoil. "Why did you get a snake?" I gasped. "To be a friend for my turtle," he answered. "What turtle?" "The one Jerome gave me." I explained that the animals 693 SEPTEMBER 1964 needed fresh air or they would die. He considered the idea thoughtfully and pulled out three more boxes of snakes from his Sunday clothes drawer and took them outside. I was left to sort through the rest of the collection... Butterflies, cereal trading cards, assorted sticks and clubs. Steven has now discovered the fun in collecting insects, worms, and other distasteful objects; Daniel, my third son, brought me his first grasshopper and bouquet of dandelions. I looked over the assorted collections: rocks, insects, trading cards, pictures, schoolwork. They were all gathered with love. I couldn't throw them away, but what could I do with them? I decided to call the person who must know the answer to my problem — my _ mother-in-law. She must know, she had reared a boy. "T'll be right down," she said. "T know exactly what to do with them." She arrived, armed with boxes. "These were my son's," she said. "T've been wondering what to do with them myself." I looked inside. I saw rocks, insects, trading cards, pictures, schoolwork. Then I knew what to do with Charles', Steven's, and Daniel's collections. I would save them for their wives! Old Wagon Wheel Jeanette Swanson A wheel encrusted in an ironwood tree! How came it here, as if a hasty hand Had cast it out? Did some catastrophe Wipe out a lonely, west-bound band? Perhaps the emigrants made camp one night Beside the wash, and warriors found them there Unguarded and alone.... Only the desert moonlight Witnessed the deed; heard the cries of despair. Perhaps they paused for noontide rest In dappled shade, and carelessly threw out This wheel we find embedded in the breast Of an ironwood, now grown old and stout. We only dream. No one now can reveal How came this alliance of tree and wheel. 694 neal FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent - through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Denver Stake (Colorado) Ward and Branch Relief Society Magazine Representatives Achieve Outstanding Record Front row, seated, left to right: Fern Olsen; Opal Jones; Ramona Delgado; Daisy Gillaspie. Back row, standing, left to right: Denver Stake Magazine representative Katherina Belmain; Afton Riches; Norma S. Prior, Victoria Carpentar; Annabelle Nelson; Evelyn Mosier. Ilah K. Smith, President, Denver Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of ward and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives have made a very outstanding record in the last two years. In 1962 they placed over 100 per cent in subscriptions in each ward and branch, giving the Denver Stake 112.3 per cent. They were second highest in Magazine subscriptions' gain in the Church. In 1963 they again raised their record to over 101 per cent in each ward and branch, which gave the Denver Stake 111 per cent. Sister Gillaspie of Castle Rock Branch achieved the highest, with 157 per cent. Sister Delgado of the Spanish-American Branch had. 153 per cent, even with one-fourth of her branch unable to speak English. We are very proud of the fine record this group of sisters have made, and we are eagerly looking forward to new records in the future." 695 SEPTEMBER 1964 Grand Coulee Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, February 1964 Standing in the front row, at the left, in dark dresses, left to right: Eileen S. Peterson, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Anne R. Gledhill, representing the General Board of Relief Society; Grace P. Swinyard, of the Primary Association General Board. At the left, second row, left to right: Mary Cornelson, Second Counselor, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society; Barbara Gilbert, First Counselor; Kay Smith, organist; Joan Hughes, accompanist. Eighth from the left, in white blouse: chorister Luana Johnson. Sister Peterson reports: '"The Singing Mothers of the Grand Coulee Stake presented two beautiful numbers at the quarterly conference. The singers represented twelve wards throughout the stake." Palmyra Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Inspirational Program "Words and Music" February 27, 1964 Front row, right to left, beginning with the women in dark dresses: Mabel S. Banks, newly released first counselor; Lucille Robinson, literature class leader, and author and narrator of the script presented at the program; Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society; Donna G. Anderson, Second Counselor; Verda F. Tuckett, organist; Lenore Measom, chorister. The newly appointed First Counselor Florence F. Cope stands in the second row from the back, third from the right. Sister Swenson reports: "On February 27, 1964, an inspirational program - of 'Words and Music' was presented by the ten-ward Singing Mothers chorus of Palmyra Stake at Spanish Fork, Utah. Each ward chorus sang one song, which helped to develop the theme 'I Heard America Singing.' The songs were chosen from the works of well-known and beloved American composers. Among the composers honored were the Latter-day Saint women Eliza R. Snow, Florence Jepperson Madsen, and Mirla Thayne. Sister Thayne was present and was paid a special tribute as her song 'I Wonder When He Comes Again' was sung by one of the ward choruses. As a special guest, she was presented with a lovely floral arrangement.... Refreshments were served to approximately 450 sisters. Nursery leaders cared for ninety children, most of whom were the children of the young mothers singing in the chorus. All who attended the program enjoyed it and were enthusiastic about it. Many have expressed their desire that this may become an annual affair." North Rexburg Stake (Idaho), Hibbard Ward Relief Society All-Day Work Meeting February 11, 1964 Seated: Vera W. Parker, work meeting leader, holding a Lone-Star quilt. Standing, left to right: Nina C. Ricks, First Counselor, holding a handappliqued rose quilt; Belva P. Withers, President, displaying an around-theworld quilt; Edna B. Jensen, Second Counselor, holding a hand-appliqued pond-lily quilt. Ada S. Sharp, President, North Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "The officers of the Hibbard Ward Relief Society were well pleased when fiftyeight sisters turned out to an all-day work meeting planned to stimulate greater interest in quilting among the sisters. The meeting started in the morning, and the last quilt was taken from the frames at 5:15 p. M. There were seventy-four sisters enrolled in the Hibbard Ward Relief Society. The ward was divided into four districts, with Reba R. Widdison, Elizabeth K. Neville, Harriet L. Rigby, and Flora Belle J. Johnson as chairmen. Each sister in the district was contacted by her chairman and invited to attend the work meeting. Lunch was served to eighty-three, which included the children. A day-long nursery was maintained." 696 a —_ ee, Rh * ss sg aes: 2 — 7 Ms pe Ob Rage ce yeep ede Nvrokbey ate Pi +; 'st a. I= ht ia bby 5 Mp inp} A sf Lh Wasatch Stake (Utah), Midway First Ward Honors Visiting Teachers at Opening Social, October 1, 1963 "The year 1963 marked the fiftieth anniversary of 100 per cent visiting teaching in the Midway First Ward Relief Society. A most successful social was held on Tuesday, October 1, 1963. A large number were in attendance. Bishop Burton Van Wagoner was the honored guest. Belva Luke was chairman of the lunch committee. The room and tables were cleverly decorated with miniature meetinghouses of the architecture of 1913 and 1963, with dolls representing visiting teachers in the style of each period. Lovely fall flowers were effectively used. Large, gold-colored figures of the number "50" were placed: appropriately among the decorations. Mildred Larsen, Wilma Chavez, and Wilma Pope were in charge of decorations. "A most impressive program followed the lunch. There were special stage settings depicting the important accomplishments of the visiting teachers since 1913—the year the goal was set. It was Emily S: Coleman, President, Midway: First Ward Relief Society, who, in 1913, with the help of her counselors and Bishop John Van Wagoner established the goal. The gathering of wheat, the filling of storehouses with grain, sending flour to stricken Europe, and to the distressed following the San Francisco earthquake, selling the wheat to the Government, the giving of wheat to the Priesthood for seed to be distributed to the farmers, the visiting of the sick, the dictribution of clothing to the needy, were all dramatized in special scenes. "Music was furnished by Barbara B. Johnson, Wilma Chavez, Judy Milliner, and Maxine Carlisle. A picture of each Relief Society president was flashed upon the screen as each period's program was reviewed. Georgia Dawn Clegg had charge of the splendid program. Thelma Hair was the reader, and Wilma Chavez was the stage director. "'A special award was given to Martha Burgi for fifty years: service as a visiting teacher. Other awards were given for long years of service as visiting teachers, ranging from twenty to forty-seven years. Flowers were presented to every visiting teacher present." Hamburg Stake (Germany) Relief Society Handwork Displayed at Stake Conference March 14th and 15th, 1964 Liselotte Schrader, President, Hamburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "On the 14th and 15th of March, 1964, our stake conference was held in Hamburg, Germany. This time Sister Mary Young of the General Board of Relief Society visited us to give instructions to the Relief Society officers. We have eleven Relief Societies within our stake, and officers from every one were present. We held wonderful meetings and learned much of how to help our. Sisters more effectively. "We took the opportunity at this conference to have a display of handmade articles from the following wards: Eppendorf, Altona, Hamburg, Luneburg, Harburg, Pinneberg, and Luebeck. The picture shows a part of the displayed handwork. It will be seen that the articles which the sisters here in Germany prefer to make are: pillows, aprons, crocheted pot holders, tablecloths, and wall carpets. Most of the handwork was done in Relief Society work meetings. "We especially enjoyed the presence of the President of the European Mission, Elder Ezra T. Benson, a member of the Council of the Twelve. He visited our displays with interest." 698 North Argentine Mission Relief Society Conducts Seminar at Cordoba November 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Elsa Sarrodes; Afton Anderson; Worcas Barragan; Rosa Villareal; Rosa Amutio. Back row, standing, left to right: Olga Romero; Carlota Funes; Alice Allred; Narciasa Cena; Juana Vergés. Patricia J. Stone, Supervisor, North Argentine Mission Relief Society, reports: 'Recently the leaders of the Relief Society in the North Argentine Mission held their bi-annual meetings. The meetings were held in the newly completed offices of the mission located in a subdivision of Cordoba. "The responsibility of leadership falls upon the Argentine sisters. All of the branch and district officers are Argentine 'hermanas.' "The conference was carried out under the direction of Sister Lubormirski and Sister Stone. General instructions were given to the sisters, and each of them had a chance to express herself and put forward new ideas for the betterment of the organization. A large testimony meeting was held at the end of the two-day conference, in which the sisters had the opportunity of gaining a better spirit of the work and to return to the various districts with a renewed spirit of dedication. "A quilting bee was an interesting sidelight of the conference. Alice Allred, the wife of a construction supervisor building a chapel in Argentina, showed the Argentine sisters the art of quilting, and it was a great motivator for all of them. Sister Judd of Salt Lake City, Utah, was visiting the mission with her daughter Patricia Judd Stone. Sister Judd also took an active part in the quilting, and her skill was the envy of all her Argentine sisters. "The Relief Society is well organized in the North Argentine Mission and serves well the 2,500 members." British Mission Relief Society Presents Talent Concert for Relief Society Anniversary, March 14, 1964 Standing, left to right, front row, beginning fourth from the left: Maxine Hanks (in black dress), former supervisor of Mission Relief Societies, wife of former mission president Marion D. Hanks; Evangeline T. Beesley, President, British Mission Relief Society; Monta Gardner and Mary Timmins, Counselors. Also represented in the picture are mission district and branch presidencies. Sister Beesley reports: '""We were delighted with the response of the Singing Mothers. There were 110 sisters singing together, having been trained by local leaders, and by me, as I was able to travel about to meet with them. It was remarkable that their singing was so unified and beautiful, for many were unable to be with us in the one combined rehearsal held a few days prior to the concert. The sisters were alert and eager to sing their best, and they touched the hearts of their listeners. Many tributes have come to the mission as to the good impression made by them on members and investigators. We feel that we were especially blessed in the rendition of our numbers. "The talent numbers representing each district were varied and interesting. They consisted chiefly of musical numbers, instrumental solos, a chorus, and vocal duets. There were entertaining readings, and a skit was presented. Later, during the refreshments, a skit was presented from the stage, as well as a dance. There were about 350 people present, including members of the Priesthood, investigators, and friends. A wonderful spirit of friendliness and love, of cooperation and accomplishment marked the afternoon. We were happy that both Sister Emma Marr Petersen, wife of President Mark E. Petersen, of the West European Mission, and Sister Maxine Hanks could be with us." Christine H. Robinson is the new supervisor of the British Mission Relief Society. 700 South African Held at R. Mission, oa yy v a ag A. ——- & = Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 59 The Church Independent (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 78 and 83) For First Meeting, December 1964 Objective: To study some important aspects of the law of consecration and the importance of unity within the Church. INTRODUCTION It will be remembered that the Prophet Joseph Smith, aided by Sidney Rigdon as scribe, was engaged in the revision of the Bible when he received the revelation known as the ''Vision." After this glorious revelation was received the Prophet continued his work on the Bible while residing in Hiram, Ohio. The interest of the saints concerning the building of Zion upon the American Continent continued unabated. Although the first revelation concerning the laws that would apply in the building up of Zion was received about thirteen months before this time, it was necessary to reemphasize and implement the instructions concerning the fundamental law of consecration, one of the major laws to bring Zion to fruition. 702 Section 78 was received in response to the need to point up further the importance of this law in the establishing of Zion. Closely associated with this objective was the corollary objective of independence of the Church in this world. In the first two verses of Section 78, the assembled members of the Melchizedek Priesthood, because of their inquiry about the law of consecration (sometimes called the 'United Order'), were told that they should receive words of wisdom for their salvation in this Order. Beginning with this revelation and in a number of Sections which follow, persons, places, and objects are given unusual names. The superscription of Section 78 informs us that it was undesirable at that time that this infor- mation be known. Later, as in our present edition of the Doctrine and Covenants, both names are given. BACKGROUND In February 1831, the revelation known as the "Law" (Section 42) was given that the saints might know how to build Zion upon the earth. In 'this revelation and subsequent instruction, the Lord said that the saint should consecrate his belongings for the common good of all the members of the Church in that Order. In surrendering his possessions by legal title, it was said that each person should receive a stewardship to be worked by the individual for himself, his family, his circumstances, wants, and needs. The residues or surpluses from the stewardship were to be set aside for many purposes. And again, if there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a residue to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shallbe kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants. Therefore, the residue shall be kept in my storehouse, to administer to the poor and the needy, as shall be appointed by the high council of the. Church, and the bishop and his council; And for the purpose of purchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of worship, and building up of the New Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed (D&C 42:33-35). On April 30, 1832, while the * Prophet was in council with some of the brethren in Missouri, LESSON DEPARTMENT he received a revelation which answered the questions of some concerning widows and orphans under the law of consecration. (Section 83.) Basic principles of responsibility are laid down in Section 83. The husband is to provide for his wife and children. With the loss of one parent the other parent is responsible for the care of the children. (Verses 2, 4.) In the event that the husband and father is dead, the Church provides for the widow and children out of the storehouse. (Verse 6.) It was also provided that the poor could receive inheritances from the storehouse. Another principle of importance which is clarified in this revelation is that when children reach a time when they need an inheritance and the parents are unable to provide it from their own inheritance, the Church may provide an inheritance for the children. (Verse 5.) Worthiness is a standard that also determines who should receive from the Church. With the foregoing purposes and principles of the law of consecration set forth, the Lord said that when these purposes were put into operation,. A wonderful blessing would. Come to the individual and to the Church. Equality m temporal things would serve to enhance the glory of God through man's salvation. That you may be equal in the bonds of heavenly things, yea, and earthly things also, for the obtaining of heavenly things. For if ye are not equal in earthly things ye cannot be equal in obtaining heavenly things; 703 SEPTEMBER 1964 For if you will that I give unto you a place in the celestial world, you must prepare yourselves by doing the things which I have commanded you and required of you. And now, verily thus saith the Lord, it is expedient that all things be done unto my glory, by you who are joined together in this order (D&C 78:5-8). The equality of temporal goods here does not mean that everyone has exactly the same possessions, but sufficient for his purpose according to his wants and needs. Concerning this President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said:... Obviously, this is not a case of "dead-level" equality. It is '""equality" that will vary as much as the man's circumstances, his family, his wants and needs, may vary (Conference Report, October 4, 1942, page 55). President Brigham Young said the plan of the gospel envisions a oneness consisting of the temporal as well as the _ spiritual. (Journal of Discourses 17:40.) The Lord had said that the world was in sin because some possessed that which was above others. (D&C 49:20.) Fundamental to the law of consecration is the principle that everything belongs to the Lord; therefore, whatever one possesses may be surrendered if called for to build up Zion. (Jbid., 104:14- 17, 54-57.) With this and other principles in mind, Elder John A. Widtsoe has given us some basic principles of the United Order: Its objective was to provide every man who is willing to work with the necessities and the comforts of life, thus abolishing poverty from the earth. It was to be a cooperative plan but directly opposed to modern communism, since it recognized man as a free agent, respected the rights of private property, and preserved and encouraged individual initiative. 704 The United Orler thus established rests upon four basic principles. First, the earth is the Lord's. Men are only stewards of their possessions. All that man has should be used therefore in accordance with the Lord's expressed will. ' Second, all men are children of God — of a divine family. Therefore, the Lord requires that they must help one another as needs arise, provided that he who will not work shall have no claim upon his brother. Third, every man must be respected as a free agent. He may enter the order at his pleasure. Once in the order, he must be allowed to use, fully, and as he pleases, any properties placed in his hands. He may leave the order at his pleasure. Fourth, the government of the order is vested in a central agency, sustained by the members of the order, presided over by the bishop, his counselors, and such helpers as may be needed. This central agency would have power to adjust the disputes normally arising among strongly individualized human being (Joseph Smith, pp. 192-3). FOR MY GLORY When men work out their own salvation it redounds to the glory of God. (Moses 1:39.) The elders named in verse 9 of Section 78 were to follow the instruction to visit the brethren in Zion (Missouri) and sit in council with them on matters relating to the United Order. They were reminded of Satan's efforts to blind the eyes of those who are under covenant to follow the commandments. When a person enters into an agreement with the Lord under the new and everlasting covenant (the gospel or any of its covenants, such as the law of consecration), he is expected to comply with all aspects of that covenant. Rewards or blessings for observance of the law may be expected by those who observe the full requirements... On the other hand, as in the case of these brethren, disobedience _ brings loss of calling, as well as being turned over to the buffetings of Satan. (Verse 12.) tHe All blessings and promises of the Lord are fulfilled upon obedience to the principles upon which they are predicated. In 1832, the Lord promised the saints that by obedience to the law of consecration the Church would become independent above all other creatures on the earth. (D&C 78:13-14.) Although the members of that early period did not obey the covenant of consecration, the promise is still in effect. The Church is today a light unto the world, and it will continue to be a standard for the nations. (Ibid., 115:4-6.) When the Lord's organization becomes the power in the world it is destined to be, it will then be independent from all other organizations, whether political, financial, or industrial. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 482.) In connection with these ideas and, particularly, the place of the Church as a light for the world, Elder John A. Widtsoe said: Some day the world under stern necessity will adopt and practice the economic program known to the Church as the United Order — but in a manner wholly different from Socialism or Communism (Joseph Smith, page 197). One should remember that the Lord has commanded us to be united as a people that salvation may be ours and that his work may make the necessary progress LESSON DEPARTMENT for the betterment of mankind. Such unified action would contribute to the prophesied independence of the Church. The member of the Church has covenanted to work for the advancement of the Church members individually and the Church as an organization. Agreeable to this truth, Elder Harold B. Lee, of the Council of the Twelve, has given us some ways in which the Latter-day Saint may fulfill this responsibility:... If we would be united in paying our fast offerings and observing the law of the fast as fully as the Lord has taught it, and if we were united in carrying out the principles of the welfare program as they have been given to us by our leaders today, we would be free from want and distress and would be able fully to care for our own.... If we were fully united as a people in our missionary work, we would rapidly hasten the day when the gospel would be preached to all people without and within the boundaries of the organized stakes of Zion.... If we were fully united in keeping the law of sacrifice and paying our tithes as we have been schooled today, we would have sufficient to build our temples, our chapels, our schools of learning.... If we were united as a people in electing honorable men to high places in our civil government, regardless of the political party with which we have affiliation, we would be able to safeguard our communities and to preserve law and order among us.... If we were united in safeguarding our youth from promiscuous associations that foster marriages out of the Church and out of the temples, by having socials and recreations as a united people, as has been the practice from our pioneer days, we would be building all our Latter-day Saint homes on a sure and happy foundation... If we were united in safeguarding the Church from false doctrines and error and in standing as watchmen 705 SEPTEMBER 1964 upon the tower as teachers and leaders in watching over the Church, then we would be free from these things that cause many to stumble and fall and lose their faith.... If we were united in our temple work and in our genealogical research work, we would not be satisfied with the present temples only, but we would have sufficient work for temples yet to come, to the unlocking of the doors of opportunity to those beyond who are our own kin, and thus ourselves become saviors on Mount Zion... (Conference Report, April 1950, pp. 96-97). To the degree that the saints are a united people, the general purposes of the Lord will be fulfilled. But, as far as the individual is concerned, there cannot be salvation in its highest sense if he is not united with the onward, progressive movement of the Church as an organization. In the 1830's the Saints were warned of coming tribulation before the day of complete fulfillment of the promises. (D&C 58:1-5; 78:14.) The world has yet many tribulations to endure because, in the main, it will not give heed to the words of the living prophets. (Ibid., 45:25-33.) Preparation for the future in terms of economic welfare has been the counsel of the General Authorities for many years. In the 1941 general conference E]- der Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve said:... A brief review of the past instruction of our leaders should only serve to warn the disobedient and to encourage the obedient to continue faithful. 'Today listen to the words of President Wilford Woodruff that he spoke more than forty years ago: "So far as temporal matters are 706 concerned, we have got to go to work and provide for ourselves. The day will come when you will see the necessity for making your own shoes and clothing, raising your own food, and uniting together to carry out the purposes of the Lord. We will be preserved in the mountains of Israel in the day of God's judgment." I therefore say to you, my brethren and sisters, prepare for that which is to come (Conference Report, October 1941, page 114). ATAA RA fr? D When the Church becomes independent from all other creatures in the world through the providence of God, then those who have endeavored by preparation for that event shall be made rulers over many kingdoms. Exaltation in the celestial kingdom gives rulership over kingdoms and_ posterity. (D&C 78:14-15.) This message serves as an introduction to some information regarding Adam, the progenitor of the human race. This is the first time in the modern revelations where Adam-ondiAhman is mentioned. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pages 482-3.) This is the place where Adam met with his posterity and gave them a patriarchal blessing. (D&C 107:53-57.) Adam-ondi-Ahman is __ located north of Jackson County in Daviess County, Missouri.... The Holy One of Zion, who hath established the foundations of Adamondi-Ahman; Who hath appointed Michael your prince, and established his feet, and set him upon high, and given unto him the keys of salvation under the counsel and direction of the Holy One, who is without beginning of days or end of life (Ibid., 78:15-16). These verses give us an under- standing of the position that Adam holds in Latter-day Saint belief. Adam is the prince over all of his posterity and as such will preside over them, under the direction of the Holy One who is Jesus Christ, when the earth becomes celestialized. (Ibid., 107: 54-55.) CONCLUSION The saints at that day, and today, are little children in an understanding of the great blessings in store for the faithful. Though one might know that many kingdoms may be ruled (D&C 78:15, 17) and all things inherited (verse 22), few understand what this means. We can understand LESSON DEPARTMENT present blessings, and we may thrill in the contemplation of great blessings to come if we are wise stewards; consequently, the Lord reminds us that what is now received should be accepted in thankfulness. If this is done, then the riches of eternity are ours. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Give a brief review of the essential principles of the law of consecration. 2. What additional information about this law is given in Section 83? 3. Discuss: Equality of members in the United Order. 4. How may the members of the Church become united in achieving the goal of independence for the Church? On Seeing a Son off to School Evalyn M. Sandberg His hand leaves mine. He saunters down the hill, All dignity and new-found poise, And he is only five. He turns and waves. Alone — and yet not quite alone. Still held Upon that silver strand By which a mother claims her child. | would not have him walk alone; Yet walk alone he must. Dear God in heaven: Regard my child. Do keep him in thy trust. 707 a VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Are on Pe gg Christine H. Robinson Message 59 "Every Man Seeking the Interest of His Neighbor... (D&C 82:19) For First Meeting, December 1964 loved you" (John 15:12). Inter. Welfare of his fellow men.'-The ~~ est in, concern for, and service to emphasis in this thought is on. + others is the only genuine Mmaniwork and deeds. Love without -» festation of true love. Manifestation does not feed the One of the best known and heart any more than a locked most dramatic examples of conbread box feeds the body. Unlike others who had passed by on behalf of our neighbors js the wounded man without helpbeautifully illustrated in the foling him, the Samaritan bound up lowing poem:: S z I knelt to pray as day began lcine and took him to an inn for And prayed, "0 Gog bless every man," further care. His compassion Lift from 'each weary heart some Prompted the Savior to ask the pain question, "Which now of these And let the sick be well again.: ighAnd then I rose to meet the day three, thinkest thou, (Sex eee And thoughtlessly went on my Way; I took no steps to ease the load 10:30-37,) Of hard-pressed travelers on the road. / 4 Someone has em 4ppreciation, we depend tion for some Pon the done, and 1 Others. Autumn Raiment st Ethe| Jacobson ¥ 4 ~ % a P aod | Every seam and fold Array,: iT) Purple ey ' * Sop, ded: j Now with this hard frost, ~ WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Discussion 3: Personal Attractiveness, a Factor in Happiness (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) For Second Meeting, December 1964 Objective: To see the effect of our personal attractiveness As everyone knows, what we are inside reflects on the outside, and conversely, how we look on the outside affects the way we feel inside. When we are dressed appropriately—from the moment we get out of bed in the morning until we retire at night—our confidence increases, our spirits brighten, we are more efficient, and we are happier. Our families feel this and respond—feeling a little more sure of themselves and proud of us. A decisive beginning to the day on the part of mother can influence the attitude of the family. If she is up and dressed, with her hair combed, the day has definitely begun. She feels good because she is "on top" of things, and her family feels good because she looks like she is "on top" of things. In that home happiness can rise with the sun. (Three things to be worn as little as possible are hair curlers, housecoats or robes, and bedroom slippers! ) 710 on our own and our family's happiness. Attractiveness begins with cleanliness. Personal habits differ from country to country, depending upon facilities, water supplies, etc., but cleanliness is fundamental and should be achieved by whatever means. A frequent bath not only keeps the body clean and fresh, but brightens the spirit and relieves fatigue. Clothing, too, should be kept fresh and clean. White collars, white gloves, scarves, and underwear should be laundered regularly so they are spotless. Sponge and press outer clothing as needed, and keep shoes polished and in good repair for good grooming. Mothers need to have the proper clothing for their roles as homemaker, hostess, and mother. As with all things, there needs to be a careful balance of mother's going without (as she so often does) to provide more for the children. She should take care of her own needs sufficiently well, to keep the family's pride in her appearance. It is important for each family member to learn to go without occasionally, enabling all to share the family resources. Homemakers should plan wardrobes for around the house just as they do for their social lives. Comfortable and_ well-fitting shoes for working about the house can give a woman hours more energy. Clothes that are simple and loose-fitting not only are easier to wash and iron, but also give the body freedom for stretching or kneeling. A wardrobe should include appropriate clothing for going out casually in public—shopping, to the library, and on errands. It is important to our feeling of well-being and happiness (and to that of our families) to be conscious of our appearance. We should always look acceptable before leaving home. This would apply to dressing appropriately for Relief Society meeting and other Relief Society activities and Church functions. The Church has set standards of dress to which mothers and daughters should adhere. Counsel was given to Relief Society relative to standards of dress by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen in the General Relief Society Conference October 1962. President Smith advised: "And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithLESSON DEPARTMENT ful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do?" Elder Petersen declared, "Mothers in Israel, as long as we turn away from modesty in dress and follow the way of the world in style, just that long will we pay the price in a breakdown of morals among the younger generation." By being particular both in standards and neatness of dress, we can set an example that might change the habits of the neighborhood, which in turn could strengthen the attitude of the community, which could build the stature of a nation, which could magnify the world. It is a loving mother or grandmother who makes a special effort to pretty herself up before the family comes. Though there may have been children underfoot all day, there should be a moment to freshen up, to appear neat and clean to greet homecoming family members. This makes for a pleasant remembrance for children to tuck away in their memory chests and attractive picture for a husband to come home to. Let us keep up our appearance so the family can be proud of us. After all, most of us spend the greater part of our waking hours at home and this is where we ought to look our best. For it is here the most important people in the world—our families—will be seeing us! 711 LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature Elder Bruce B. Clark Lesson 3: Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part 1 (Textbook: Out of the Best Books by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City For Third Meeting, December 1964 Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. OccaSIONALLY in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth (1770- 1850), who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books, we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. As Samuel Taylor Coleridge says, Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Arnold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears' and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry. 712 RR op nn Wordsworth's poem best known to Latter-day Saints is the famous "Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood," for it is the fullest and most beautiful expression in all literature harmonious with the unique Latter-day Saint doctrine of pre-existence, which extends immortality in both directions, not only forward into post-mortality following death and resurrection, but also backward into pre-mortality before birth. All Christian churches recognize life after death, and many Christian people have a sort of inherent feeling that there is life before birth; but The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints alone teaches as an official doctrine that we mortals existed as individual spirit children with God our Father and exercised our free agency for development in a pre-mortal state. Wordsworth was not, of course, a Latter-day Saint and perhaps never heard of "Mormonism," for, born in 1770, he was an old man when the gospel came to England and he died in 1850, when the Church was still very young. But he might well have been an inspired forerunner of the gospel when, in 1805, the very year of Joseph Smith's birth, he wrote: Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: The soul: that rises with us, our life's star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar: Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God, who is our home. These eight lines come out of the middle of the beautiful 'Immortality" ode. To understand fully what Wordsworth is saying we need to study the entire 204 lines of the poem. We need to know that Wordsworth was endeavoring to lift his friend Coleridge out of the despondency into which Coleridge was plunged because of the personal tragedy of his life and because he could no longer respond to the beauties of nature around him, which heretofore had been the source of his creative inspiration. "I see, not feel, how beautiful they are," said Coleridge in his sadly beautiful poem "Dejection: An Ode." Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834) was not only Wordsworth's great friend but also a brilliant poet and literary critic, probably the most learned poet of his generation. His skill as a poet and his powers of the imagiLESSON DEPARTMENT nation were astonishing, and yet his personal life was shattered by an agonizing marriage failure, years of excruciating physical sickness, and a woeful lack of self-discipline that threatened to wreck him spiritually and mentally as well as physically. All of this anguish is reflected in Coleridge's '"Dejection: An Ode." And Wordsworth's "Immortality" ode was written as a direct answer to Coleridge's poem, especially to the central problem of the poem — Coleridge's spiritual despondency caused by a lack of responsiveness to the inspiring beauties of nature. To understand Wordsworth's poem we need to examine its form. Structurally it is what we call an "irregular ode." Each stanza in number of lines, rhyme pattern, length of lines, and meter within the lines is different from every other stanza, Yet rhythm,. Thyme, sound, and imagery are at all times so expertly controlled and so harmoniously related to. Meaning that the result is a rich work of art — a miniature symphony of sound fused with a provocative essay of meaning. The poem is structurally divid- "ed into eleven stanzas, but in idea-development it has only three sections. The first four stanzas comprise the first section, in which Wordsworth agrees with Coleridge that as we grow older we can no longer respond spontaneously to the beauties of nature as a child does. Then in the next section, stanzas 5 through 8, Wordsworth endeavors to explain why this is so: that when we were young we were close to God and hence close to 713 SEPTEMBER 1964 the creations of God in nature, but that as we grow older the "prison house"' of mortality closes around us and we seem to grow apart from nature. But, continues Wordsworth in the closing section (stanzas 9 through 11), we _ should not grieve over our loss of spontaneous joy in nature, for in the wisdom of maturity that gives us thoughtful insight into the truth of immortality we have "abundant recompense" for all our loss: What though the radiance which was once so bright Be now for ever taken from my sight, Though nothing can bring back the hour Of splendor in the grass, of glory in the flower; We will grieve not, rather find Strength in what remains behind; In the primal sympathy Which having been must ever be; In the soothing thoughts that spring Out of human suffering; In the faith that looks through death, In years that bring the philosophic mind. And so, through the contemplation of God-created beauty in nature, has come a greater understanding of man in relation to eternity. Thanks to the human heart by which we live, Thanks to its tenderness, its joys, and fears, To me the meanest flower that blows can give Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears. ET THE PRELUDE Wordsworth's "Intimations of Immortality" ode is well known in the Church. Most of his other poems are, unfortunately, very 714 little known, yet in them are ideas just as beautifully expressed and as harmonious with gospel teaching as those in the "Immortality" ode. His greatest long poem is "The Prelude," that massive and unique autobiographical work concerned with the "growth of a poet's mind," as its sub-title indicates. The poem is so long and full that only brief passages can be cited here; but it is so pertinent that not to discuss it would be a mistake. Written in dignified, stately, sonorous' blank verse, it is the fullest poetic treatment in the English language of how childhood experiences and attitudes during the "seedtime" of one's life gradually shape the habits and personality and character of adulthood. A powerful message on the importance of proper environment and training in childhood is implied throughout this long poem, for, as Wordsworth says elsewhere, '"The child is father of the man." And out of all the miscellaneous and sometimes discordant experiences of life "the immortal spirit grows like harmony in music." In "The Prelude" we find one of the most eloquent tributes in all literature to the power of nature to dignify and ennoble man: If in my youth I have been pure in heart, If, mingling with the world, I am content With my own modest pleasures, and have lived With God and Nature communing, removed From little enmities and low desires— BRO 0 onif in these times of fear, This melancholy waste of hope o'erthrown, If, 'mid indifference and apathy, And wicked exultation when good men On every side fall off, we know not how, To selfishness, names Of peace and quiet and domestic love Yet mingled not unwillingly with sneers On visionary minds; if in this time Of dereliction and dismay, I yet Despair not of our nature, but retain A more than Roman confidence, a faith That fails not, in all sorrow my support, The blessing of my life — the gift is yours, Ye winds and sounding cataracts! 'tis yours, Ye mountains! Think, O Nature! Thou hast fed My lofty speculations; and in thee, For this uneasy heart of ours, I find A never-failing principle of joy And purest passion. Disguised in gentle "The Prelude" goes on to talk of the innate nobility that is man's heritage, and of how, when he conquers the base animal instincts within himself, man can move toward the potentiality of godliness that is his, for '"there's not a man that lives who hath not known his godlike hours." In the remaining books of "The Prelude," fourteen long books in all, Wordsworth talks of many further things that shape one's life for good or bad, especially how faith in immortality can lift one to nobility in mortality. LESSON DEPARTMENT I had inward hopes And swellings of the spirit, was rapt and soothed, Conversed with promises, had glimmering views How life pervades the undecaying mind; How the immortal soul with God-like power Informs, creates, and thaws the deepest sleep That time can lay upon her; how on earth, Man, if he do but live within the light Of high endeavors, daily spreads abroad His being armed with strength that cannot fail. And the conclusion of this lengthy meditation on life and the universe is Faith in life endless, the sustaining thought Of human Being, Eternity, and God. CHARACTER OF THE HAPPY WARRIOR Not so philosophically or artistically rich* as "The Prelude" and the "Intimations of Immortality'' ode but even more directly centered around an ethical message is "Character of the Happy Warrior," which is Wordsworth's fullest description of what he felt man at his best should be. In a narrow sense it characterizes what a military officer ought to be but in a larger sense is a portrait of an ideal leader of men. Such an_ ideal *Lack of artistic richness seriously lessens the poetic attractiveness of "Character of the Happy Warrior." Most readers prefer poetry that communicates through metaphors and other figurative, imagistic phrases. But the language here tends to be direct and literal. The form is blank verse, but it is more prosaic and "flat" than that of Wordsworth's great blank-verse poems such as "Michael" and "The Prelude,' or of such a poem as '"Intimations of Immortality." Indeed, a good case could be made for calling 'Character of the Happy Warrior' a prose essay in iambic pentameter rhythm rather than a genuine poem. The work is included here not for its artistry of language but for its loftiness of message. 715 SEPTEMBER 1964 leader is a man "whose high endeavors are an inward light that makes the path before him always bright," one who "makes his moral being his prime care,"' and who is even more pure, As tempted more; more able to endure, As more exposed to suffering and distress; Thence, also, more alive to tenderness. Sucu aman "labors good on good to fix and owes to virtue every triumph that he knows." And, if he rises to a position of importance, will do so "by open means" only and remain there "on honorable terms" only. He is trustworthy and dedicated but also humble and unworldly. He is a man whose reasoned control of himself is absolute and whose sole motivation for achievement is the common good, a man so wise and stable that "through the heat of conflict he keeps the law in calmness made," a man who, though destined to wrestle with great issues, still "leans to homefelt pleasures and to gentle scenes... More brave for this, that he hath much to love." The ideal leader is finally he who Plays, in the many games of life, that one Where what he most doth value must be won: Whom neither shape of danger can dismay, Nor thought of tender happiness betray; Who, not content that former worth stand fast, Looks forward, persevering to the last, From well to better, daily self-surpast. He is not concerned for fame; indeed, he is indifferent to both 716 fame and obscurity. Rather his concern is for an undeviating devotion to some good cause, and he works unselfishly towards this goal "in confidence of Heaven's applause."' What a difference there would be in the world if every military leader, every civic leader, every industrial leader, every religious leader, every political leader had these lofty rules of conduct steadily in mind and _ followed them! There is perhaps no higher code of ethics recorded anywhere than Wordsworth's except in the greatest of all sermons spoken on a mountain by the Savior of the world. And fortunately, Wordsworth is consistent, even as Christ was, in his insistence upon honor in human affairs. For example, in "Dion," a poem written late in his life, Wordsworth further explorers ethics in leadership, specifically the problem of whether a good end ever justifies evil means to attain that end, and concludes: Him only pleasure leads, and peace attends, Whose means are fair and spotless as his ends. NOTE TO CLASS LEADERS: Generally the lessons in this new literature series will not concentrate on a single author or on any "movement" in literature, but instead will cover short works (poems, stories, etc.) by several authors, built around a central theme, with emphasis on the works themselves and on their meaning and values. However, the English poet William Wordsworth is so great an affirmer of spiritual values that the lesson for this month centers on several poems - Tow intuitive knowledge of truth, as Words. Worth also Says? Discuss the meaning of the two Closing lines of "Intimations of ImTo me the Meanest lower that blows can give 717 BEAUTIFUL MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART VOICES a. ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen...........20 oeETERNAL LIFE—Dungon.............25.... GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR-—Berlin.................25 —_—IN THY FORM—Madsen...........20... HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydn..................00....+25 _... IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen.....25 aLET ALL MY LIFE BE MUSIC—Spross.........-...--..--------+30 =LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT for Joy—Stephens................-..--620... LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen...................20 a. LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER—Verdi.............-----..------+20 SsLORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen —PRAIRIE LULLABY—Rich Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Please send the music above. [J On Approval [J Charge OO Money Enclosed indicated Name Address City and State ae 15 E. Ist south! THE HOLY LAND AND MIDDLE EAST @ Leaves October 8, just after LDS Conference. ® 20 days of worry free travel! ® All Expenses Paid! ® Personally conducted all the way by Franklin J. Murdock! Send for your free brochure and full particulars now Murdock Travel, Inc. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Phone: 328-3161 Gentlemen: Please send me my free brochure and full particulars on The Holy Land and Middle East Tour leaving Salt Lake City October 8, 1964. Name onan. Ccccescceceececceseeeeenaceceemneeeceneeee Address 2..... Cc ile eceetteettetecen cote ceeeneeeneee City... Eee Zone........ State................ Murdock Jravel, Inc. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — 328-3161 HAWAII Tours to October 12th TOURS TO OAKLAND TEMPLE Preview and Dedication October through November TOURS TO THE ROSE PARADE in Pasadena, California December through January Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 / Salt Lake City 11, Utah 718 SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS Vilate R. McAllister — 'THE VISITING TEACHER" — S. S. A..........25 Arline M. Scott — "MAGNIFY YOUR OFFICE" — S. A,........ 25 "FORGIVEN" (John A. Widtsoe) contralto solo 00.0 ene "UPON YOU, MY FELLOW SERVANTS" (Priesthood) solo......... 25 25 SISAL... —... 30 "MARY AND THE WOMEN WEPT" — S. S. A. 00...0 "HUMILITY" solo or S. S. A..30 Carol G. Gunn — "JUNE" (James Russell Lowell) S. S. A. =:;.30 "AR TRIBUTE TO MOTHER" SS ee me... 8.....30 "SOMEWHERE ALONG THE WAY" S. S. A. 00..30 Beverly J. Pond "AS | GO ON MY WAY" (Visiting Teacher) S. S. A.......30 Amelia D. Everett "ANNIVERSARY SONG" (R. S.) 25 "GATES OF ETERNITY" (Temple)......25 Postpaid from VILATE R. McALLISTER 1365 East 4800 South Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 WORLD'S FAIR and NEW ENGLAND AND CANADIAN FALL TOUR 29 days — August 29 to September 26 LABOR DAY TOUR 3 days — September 5 to September 7 Includes Southern Utah's beautiful parks OAKLAND TEMPLE PREVIEW TOUR 4 days — October 3 to October 6 Includes preview showing of Oakland Temple and San Francisco HAWAIIAN TOURS October 17 to October 31 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 99-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 3... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 5 |... 80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. —_ 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 GOLD MEDALLION HOME A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer 719 Zone 1 and 2......55 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 8..........1.20 One Hundred Five Mrs. Mary Ann Brown Clark Provo, Utah One Hundred Mrs. Lucinda A. Pace Redd Monticello, Utah Ninety-nine Mrs. Chloe D. Spencer St. George, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Louisa Rattleye Nelson Ferron, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Elizabeth Duncombe Barker Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Flint House Brigham City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Lucy Smart Parkinson Lloyd Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Effie Ensign Merrill Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsay Bennion Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet Elien Forbes Adams Layton, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Stena Busk. Elsinore, Utah 720 Ninety-two Mrs. Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Caroline Charlotte Petersen Larsen Sandy, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Laura Martina Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Melissa Rasmussen Slaughter Bakersfield, California Mrs. Harriet P. Woodbury St. George, Utah Mrs. Harriet Emily Malin Pack Sacramento, California Mrs. Annie Hay Warburton Lapoint, Utah Mrs. Mary Ellen Wilkinson Bradbury Bell Gardens, California Ninety Mrs. Nellie Osmond Hart Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Hall Kinder Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Ellen Wildman Nessen Howell, Utah Mrs. Eltora Christensen Buchanan Manti, Utah Mrs. Magdaline' Whimpey Glenn Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Augusta |. Casperson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Adella Cowley Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Ne W... From Deseret Book: OUT OF THE BEST BOOKs —An Anthology of Literature, Volume I (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce 8. Clark, and Here it is! The first j 8, new Relief Society Course for "64-6 - Great literature from the Pens of | ] Wordsworth, Robert urns, Ralph Waldo Em erson, a Many Others Comes to life With more mean brary! $295 Plus 15¢ Postage: ed Please fj —— = he <= Best Bo, nd $3.10 for oks Volume I. ~-----.... State add 314% sales tax, _ pa aeZip. Residents of Utah Fo Ftappy I, noestment ~ la When Harold Needham bought his life insurance, he didn't realize that someday the cash value of the purchase would help him to make a very important investment. For several years, Harold and Ruth Needham looked for just the "right" home for their family. It was to be a one-time purchase, and nothing else they did brought so much pleasure as planning for it. Then one day they found it — exactly as they had dreamed! But Harold hadn't saved enough for the substantial down payment needed to make buying the home a good investment. Remembering his life insurance, Harold called on his Beneficial agent and found that he could borrow enough to make up the balance. Harold and Ruth bought their home, thanks to "'minute-man"' Beneficial Life service that put the needed money right at their fingertips. It helped them to understand fully how very important life insurance can be. From the Beneficial Life files All names have been changed. BENEFICIAL LIFE Srmaranee QE) Copan Over 600 million dollars of fe insurance in force Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Thank you for giving so much enjoyment in our little Magazine. Just this morning | picked up the June Magazine and received a most wonderful feeling, especially when | looked at the sweet face of Sister McKay. Mrs. James Heusser Murray, Utah | am deeply touched and made happy by the beautiful cover of the July Magazine. It brought to mind vivid memories of the many years when l lived on North State Street in Salt Lake City, Utah. | have said many times that my children were partly reared on the Capitol grounds, and it is true. The frontispiece picture "Spinning the Threads of Time' and the lovely poem ''For a Grandchild,"" by Dorothy J. Roberts are delightful. Harmana S. Teerlink San Jose, California Thank you for your loving tributes to mothers in your many beautiful articles in the May issue. | thought of my own mother as | read it through and wished that | could express my feelings for her as was SO beautifully written. The Magazine is like having a little visit from my mother each month as it is a gift from her and contains wisdom and beauties and inspiration that seem to be a part of mothers like mine. Ellen June Barrus San Jose, California 1 would like to thank you for the wonderful April short story ''Please, Not This One,'' by Merle E. Feriante. | am sure all mothers have feared that this might happen and have wondered how they could accept it. | thank you for the beautiful thought. As the mother of four little daughters, 1 am so thankful for the Magazine and its thoughtpromoting stories. | am enjoying the serial 'Your Heart to Understanding," by Hazel M. Thomson very much. Mrs. Russell Nelson Jerome, Idaho 722 | just had to sit down and tell you how much I enjoy reading our wonderful Relief Society Magazine — halfway around the world. | can hardly wait each month to get my Copy ~~ each one with such lovely, inspiring lessons, articles, stories, and poems. Hearing about the Church throughout the world surely warms the heart when you are so far away from home. Mrs. Zola Beais Abadan, Iran My wife is the Palo Alto Stake Relief Society theology class leader, and we study and enjoy the lessons together. | have been reading parts of the Magazine myself for years, and | feel that it is an outstanding contribution to the Church. Leon Hartshorn, Director Institute of Religion Palo Alto, California | have been a member of this great Church for fourteen years and have since then enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine and the wonderful stories printed therein. | do not know how many of the brethren read the Magazine, but my wife says she doesn't know whom the Magazine is for her or me. | take it with me when | go to my factory and on long trips and get great spiritual enlightenment from it. Hugh H. Nepier Auckland, New Zealand The poems in The Relief Society Magazine are sO inspiring. | especially enjoy the poems of Alice Morrey Bailey, which seem to lift me up. The Magazine is very choice in all its aspects and departments — 4 blessing to the lives of Latter-day Saint women, as well as to their families. Alice Lowe Corbett Salmon, Idaho Relief Society Volume 51 October 1964 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 So Grateful That You Taught Me Edith S. Elliott 735 <A Scenic View of the Literature Lessons Vilate R. McAllister 746 They Joined the Church Because of Relief Society Maxine T. Grimm 754 Three of a Family Marvel M. Young 796 Point of View Is Important Leona Fetzer Wintch 797 Gleanings for the Harvest Season Celia Luce Fiction 728 The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 1 Mabel Harmer 739 "The Good Fountain" Joyce B. Bailey General Features 722 From Near and Far 749 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 750 Editorial: Refinement in Relief Society Activities Louise W. Madsen 752 Retirements From the General Board 770 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 755 Blessed Autumn Dorothy J. Smith 756 Tiny Sewing Kit Shirley Thulin 757 Celia Willden Jensen — Artist of Rugs and Quilts 758 The Cents-less Ghost Has Gone Genevieve Van Wagenen 761 The Day After Halloween Janice T. Dixon 764 Comparative British and American Measures Sandra M. Covey 766 Recipes From Scotland Kathleen S. Farnsworth Lesson for January 777. Theology — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary Roy W. Doxey 783 Visiting Teacher Message — "That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent" Christine H. Robinson 785 Work Meeting Lesson for January to appear in a later issue of the Magazine 786 Literature — Poetry of Faith in God and Man — Part II Bruce B. Clark 792 Social Science — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations (Continued) Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 721 Leaf By Leaf — Frontispiece Alberta Christensen Why? By Linnie M. Findlay, 734; Beauty, by Rowena: Jensen Bills, 738; Wind, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 745; Day in Late October, by Lael W. Hill, 748; The Goiden, Golden Time, by Christie Lund Coles, 753; Dew on a Peace Rose, by Judy Paget, 753; Requited, by: Bertha A. Kleinman, 760; Autumn Color After the Rains, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 763; Inspiration From Zion National Park, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 785; Wood Duck on Water, by Ethel Jacobson, 798. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained fof six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Edith S. Elliott Member, General Board of Relief Society THE quality of a nation is nothing more than the reflection of its people, who in turn are formed into families. Someone has said, "As the family goes, so goes the nation." Latter-day Saints have the gospel of Jesus Christ in its fullness which teaches them proper attitudes and gives direction for their development and exaltation. The state of perfection that we reach is entirely up to each of us. We are given our free agency. How grateful we should be that we have a Heavenly Father who cares enough about us, his children, to make the rules and regulations so clear, that, if followed, we can return to him. Latter-day Saints, as individuals and families, live in many parts of the world and can be a nucleus in quality which can help raise the standards of their community and nation. History has shown that when a people are willing to live up to high moral principles, their country forges ahead in all things good. We have also known of "historical lows" when whole nations have been wiped out because of the lack of proper demeanor on the part of their inhabitants. As parents, of course, we love our children. Every wise mother and father have dreams and hopes for the development of their children so that they will be prepared to meet life successfully. Many parents have the satisfaction of having their children grow up into well-adjusted, well-educated, intelligent, and much-loved individuals 724 SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME who make a wholesome and appreciable contribution to their families and the communities in which they live. Some parents have the opposite experience and suffer the heartache of having to see their children in varying degrees of circumstances undesirable in fields of social acceptance, law, Or order. The sad part of this latter situation is that it may be too late to help. The time for training and influence has passed. Then parents may have the added remorse of realizing that they had not earnestly done all they could do to guide, teach, and discipline their children properly. The time to begin to teach proper deportment is when children are very young, while their habits are being controlled and molded. Your happiness, the children's happiness, and community happiness are dependent upon how well you do your job. As soon as God breathes the preath of life into a newborn baby, parents take on the enormous responsibility of its development. The baby doesn't come to you as a "Jittle adult," but helpless, dependent, and yours for shaping. This ls where love counts the most. Only love can weather the time of discouragement when misunderstandA young nurse in one of our large hospitals has endeared herself to many mothers, doctors, and nurses because of her love for babies. She worked in the delivery room and once, just bubbling over with enthusiasm, she exclaimed, "I have the most wonderful job in the world, because I get the babies straight from God! T have the opportunity of holding them in my arms and taking care of their very first needs. It is a really humbling experience to care for one of God's spirits so recently having left his presence. I hope I am worthy of this blessing." This nurse is a wife and mother now, still carrying on and applying the above thoughts with reference to her own children. She senses her responsibility to care for them and train them so that they may grow to be well-adjusted individuals. One simple example of her training is never to allow her tiny children to run or walk through the house holding a glass of water when they have asked for a drink. She has taught them to sit on the floor, drink what they want, and return the glass to her, thus avoiding the hazard of spilling or breakage. She says, "Tf my children learn at home that they must be careful in their activities, then they won't be a nuisance when I take them to the home of my friends, nor an embarrassment to me." In Proverbs we read, "Train up 4 child in the way he should go: and when he is old he will not depart from it? Training should begin as early as a child can comprehend what it is that he should do. Parents should remember that a child's chronological, physical, and mental age development may not all coincide. They must not push his learning processes too fast, but continue on a level that a child can reacn, with challenges sufficient for continuing growth. Most parents do quite well in developing their children physically and mentally. However, there is too large a percentage who neglect OCTOBER 1964 the training of manners and social graces which help to make their progeny welcome in and acceptable to society. Knowing the secret of putting every member of a group at ease is a rare gift. This can be achieved only by conscientious and continuous training and learning. Home practice and home coaching in speech and performance will pay large dividends. It is a real thrill for parents when they hear someone say, "Your child is so well behaved in Church" or "Your child is always welcome in our home — he is such a gentleman." These are some of the rewards for teaching courtesy and respect in daily activity. Courtesy oils the wheels of association. When we realize that children reflect the actions of parents, we should always be on guard and set a good example in culture, refinement, and politeness. We can't give any more help in these areas than what we ourselves possess, so we should constantly be on the alert toward self-improvement. No one can afford to be anything less than a perfect lady or gentleman. Courtesy, good manners, or politeness — whatever term we wish to use — have played a most important part in international relations. Diplomacy among nations smooths out many tense and misunderstood incidents. Ambassadors and government representatives have to have had a strict training in ways and means of handling people and incidents. Politeness is just another term listed under the all-encompassing heading love. If we love our fellow man enough, we will never do anything to offend. We will seek always to be helpful to others and aim to make the lives of relatives and friends as pleasant and rewarding as possible—'"'Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets" (Mt. 7:12). Orientals have an engaging way of showing courtesy. They are trained from birth to respect and show deference to parents, brothers and sisters, older people, and those in authority. This they do with no effort. It is just a part of them. This training has gone on for generations. Gentle-mannered Orientals teach by example and we can learn much from them. It is a joy to associate with persons of good manners. Our children should be taught to respect their elders. Mature persons have had years of experience and knowledge which increase with use and time. They can enrich the lives of young folks by their example and teaching. Also people who hold positions of leadership, management, or authority should have respect shown them. In most cases they have arrived at their positions because they have merited it, and young folks should show appreciation for the attainment. Our Latter-day Saint boys and girls should stand up when any of the Church Authorities enter their group. Boys should arise when a lady enters; hold the door for her; help her with her wraps; provide a chair; thus creating a climate of good will. 726 SO GRATEFUL THAT YOU TAUGHT ME Our girls should follow rules of etiquette which will create for them an atmosphere of "ease"? And "know how." A large percentage of our boys and girls will be called on missions in various parts of the world. Courtesy is one of the chief ingredients for successful proselyting. Cleanliness, pleasant personality, interest in people, knowledge about their assigned field of activity, knowledge of the gospel message, respect for authority, dignified congeniality are all essential elements of good manners. Parents should send their sons and daughters into the mission field with all the training possible to meet their assignments and with attributes and attitudes which will ultimately bring about the successful fruition of their efforts. Missionaries reflect their home training. As representatives of their home and Church, they need all the fortification that parents and teachers can give. Mothers, who usually spend more time with the children than fathers do, could make it a point to teach and emphasize the rules of behavior. Repetition is a significant factor in teaching. A mother with several children should ask each one, in turn, how he would act under a given circumstance. It could become a game and be great fun. Different situations could be acted out. Children love stage play. Father's help is always necessary whenever his time is available. But father's best teaching is by example. His kindness, politeness, thoughtfulness, and helpfulness are all different shades of courteous demeanor. Parents could make up a list of courtesy projects for their families and set a special time for their consideration and study. A part of each Family Hour would be an ideal time for a well-organized program with discussion and assignment as part of it. A list of subjects might be provided to help each child feel at ease under certain general conditions. When a child makes a mistake the embarrassment he suffers sometimes is harder on him than pain. To teach a child how to act on these general occasions will help him also to adapt to related ones with poise and self-confidence. Each parent's study list may be different, but some general subjects to work on could be: politeness in the home, the neighborhood, at church, at a party, at a picnic, out camping, in public places, among friends, in school, table manners, manners on the telephone, answering the door, greeting friends and strangers, and introductions. There are, of course, many more. See how the list grows! There is no phase of life but what the display of good manners can improve. Children need to be taught and disciplined in the ways of social behavior in order to protect themselves under trying and awkward situations. It is heartwarming to parents to see their child perform well in the realm of courtesy and hear him say, "I feel that I handled what could have been an embarrassing situation quite well. Thanks for your training. So grateful that you taught me." NOTE: See also the Work Meeting Lessons for 1961-62 "Attitudes and Manners," by Elaine Anderson Cannon. 727 CHAPTER 1 Sprinc had come early in Heidelberg. The gentle April breeze, coming down from the mountainside, brought a mingled frasrance of wood violets and pine. Elsa paused in her quick walking long enough to tuck a stray curl into the blue kerchief that held her blond locks and then hurried on. She was glad that she had to pick up the figurine from Frau Schettler. It gave her a chance to go by the great Central Station and that was always worth any extra time and energy. The train from Munich would just be arriving, and it was exciting to see the people who had come. Be- 728, Turn of the. Wheel Mabel Harmer sides the tourists and students, there were everyday folk like herself, except that they were fortunate enough to be able to travel somewhere — anywhere. Even to herself she could not explain her "<vanderlust" — her yearning to visit faraway places _ or not so far awayHer mother often chided her, "For shame! You live in one of the most beautiful cities in the world — one 0 the most romantic. Why can you not be happy and satisfied here?" "T am happy," "c know that Heidelberg is beautiful. It may be romantic, but for me — so far. Anyway, to be content I must see other parts of the world." She did not add that her mother had never been outside of Heidelberg, except perhaps to Frankfurt, or to Mannheim — a mere ten miles away, and therefore was not the best qualified judge in the world. She turned into the walk to the Schettler home and lifted the iron knocker, She hoped that she would not have to wait. There was just time enough to get to the shop. She was relieved to hear Frau Schettler's heavy tread on the Stairway. "Ah, it is you!" she said, opening the door. "Do come in. You will see that the Hoop-la does not belong in my room at all." "I really haven't replied. "It js quite al] right, of course. If you do not like this, you are welcome to choose something else." But no, Fray Schettler would not let her go. Elsa must come in and see the figurine on the mantel. She quickly agreed that the sprightly Hoop-la had no place among the heavy ornaments that Overloaded the room, Frau Schettler took the figurine and wrapped it in some tissue paper. "Te]] Herr Klopfer that I will be in later this week. And thank you for coming by." time," Elsa the half hour. To hurry to get to the shop by nine. THE TURN OF THE WHEEL retort that she should have started earlier, She walked down to Bismarkplatz. Flowers, She saw the tall American solHouse of the G the statue. As she tried to walk by, he turned abruptly, knocking the figurine to the pavement. "Oh," she cried, raising both hands to her Cheeks and staring in dismay. "T'm sorry. I guess it's broken." "I'm sure it is," she replied rather stiffly, stooping down to pick up the package. He tried to forestall her, but she said, "No, thank you. ['] get it." Her tone clearly implied that he had done damage enough. "T'll pay for it, of course," he said quickly. "How much?" "I'm not sure. Pll have to ask Herr Klopfer, 1 work in his gift shop." She "T'm glad you speak English," ll make it easier accident — J hope. You Say you work ina gift 729 OCTOBER 1964 "My name is Clay Knowlton." He hesitated, waiting for her to speak, and after a brief pause, she said, "I am Elsa Breinholt." "T have just arrived here," he went on. "That's why I was gazing so intently. But I guess that I don't have to try and see everything the first day. I'm hoping to get up to the castle soon. This sure is a fascinating city." "Ves,"' "T'll likely be stationed here for two years. I guess that I can see a lot in that time." Esa merely nodded, and neither spoke again until she said, "This is the shop. Herr Klopfer will be in. He always comes early." He followed her inside and half smiled as the grizzled old gentleman looked first at the girl and then significantly at the clock. "It was all my fault," he began. But Elsa _ interrupted, saying, "Herr Klopfer does not speak English. I will have to explain." She did so quickly and then turning to Clay said, "It will be twelve dollars." "Uh, thanks. That's not at all bad. I thought it might be two or three times that much." He brought out his wallet and extracted the bills. "American money okay?" "Yes, indeed." Elsa smiled for almost the first time since their encounter. She handed the money over to Herr Klopfer and then went to a rear room to remove her coat and scarf. When she returned the soldier was still there. "Mind if I look around a bit?" he asked. "You sure have a lot of nice stuff here, Miss Breinholt. 730 I'll be wanting some things to send home. My kid sister would sure go for these cute little...." "Hummels," Elsa told him. "Yes, they are interesting." He looked around for a few minutes longer and then said, "Well, thanks a lot. I hope that I run into you again." Both laughed, and after he had left Elsa began her daily task of dusting the figurines. "A fine looking young man," observed Herr Klopfer. "Yes. He has just arrived. He said that he would be back — but, of course he won't." "Why do you say that?" "He'll soon find that he can buy anything that we have at the PX on the Base — so why should he come back here?" "TI can think of one very good reason," replied Herr Klopfer, his blue eyes twinkling. Elsa merely shrugged and went on with her work. Just the same, when the first customer came in, she was greeted with a cheerier smile than was usual. Each morning after that, as she passed the House of the Giant, she glanced up at the statue on the third story and wished she could ask him if the tall American had been by that way again. She rather thought she would not have minded "running into him" providing she was not carrying any figurines. Own Sunday she joined her mother and younger sister Maria, in their long walk to the branch chapel. Since the mother was not a fast walker, they had to start early, but no one minded in the lovely spring weather. As they came near, they saw some of their German friends arriving on foot, or on their bicycles. The Americans, who mostly came from the military base, and met upstairs, came in their automobiles. 'When I ride to church it will be in a car,' announced Maria. "Good," said her _ mother. "Then you need not bother to save any longer for that bicycle you have been wanting." "Oh, yes, I shall want both," answered Maria airily. They smiled and spoke greetings to the members going inside. Just beyond the chapel door Brother Horning, the branch president, met them and said, "Here is a newcomer I want to introduce. Brother Karl Ernst has just come here from Munich." They shook hands with the beaming young man and greeted him happily. A new member was always most welcome — especially one who held the Priesthood and could help with the ordinances in the branch. Later, when the service was over, Karl walked out into the foyer with them. ''When did you arrive?" asked Elsa. "Only Thursday." "Then you have not yet found time to learn whether or not you will like it here." "Indeed, I have! This is the most beautiful city I have ever seen. Like is not nearly a strong enough word. Everything is coming along so well. Already I have a place to stay — and the promise of work. It is almost too good to believe." "Yes, it is wonderful here. No one could want anything better," said Sister Breinholt with a meaningful look at Elsa. Then, suddenly, "Perhaps you THE TURN OF THE WHEEL would honor us by coming home to dinner." "Yes, indeed, if I do not impose upon you." "Not at all." She took Maria's arm and started out, leaving Karl to follow with Elsa. They had just started to leave when Elsa glanced up the stairway and saw the American soldier coming down. In her surprise she hesitated long enough for him to catch up with them. "Well, if this isn't luck," he exclaimed. 'You didn't tell me that you are a Latter-day Saint." "You didn't ask," smiled Elsa. "And I could say the same of you." She introduced Karl, stating that he had arrived that week from Munich. "Wonderful!" exclaimed Clay. "T hope that you like it here as much as I do!" Cart, whose knowledge of English was very limited, answered with a broad smile and an enthusiastic ''Jawohl!" They all said goodbye and walked outside where Sister Breinholt and Maria were waiting. The four of them started to walk down the street, but had gone less that a block when an auto drew up to the curb and Sergeant Knowlton leaned out. "How about a lift?" he called. "There's just room for the five of us." Elsa might have declined, but Maria answered, "Oh, yes! We were just hoping for a _ ride," and started at once for the front seat. The others stepped in the rear and Elsa introduced her mother and Maria to Clay Knowlton and gave him their address. 731 OCTOBER 1964 "You have done very well to acquire an auto so soon," Elsa said. "T haven't," he answered cheerfully. "This was borrowed for the day from a buddy who would rather sleep than go to church — the poor misguided soul. Anyway, I'm glad that it was he and not I who stayed at camp. Coming to church was a real thrill. I understand that the men in our corps helped out a little in the building." "Yes. More than a little. They were a great help. And we have been so happy to have them for our neighbors ever since." They arrived at the modest Brienholt home much too soon for everyone. For a moment Elsa was afraid that her mother, or even Maria, might invite the American also to stay for dinner. But they merely thanked him heartily for the ride and said goodbye. Elsa soon learned that she need not have worried about her mother offering any entertainment to the American. Her interest was all in Karl. He proved to be an entertaining as well as a highly appreciative guest. He told them of the branch in Munich and how it had grown since the end of the war. "We also enjoy the help and companionship of the Americans," he said. "It is wonderful that we can all be friends again." "Yes,'"' agreed Sister Brienholt. "Life is good now. Compared to many places, it has always been good here. Our beautiful city is much as it was even before the war. And there is work for everyone. Maria is employed at a typesetting plant. Elsa has a good job at a gift shop." 732 CGarw's face lit up. "Yes, it is true there is work for everyone. No sooner did I arrive than I was offered a job. I repair typewriters." "That is fine!" Sister Breinholt was all smiles. "And the more you see of our city, the better you will like it. You must go up to the top of Konigstuhl. I will pack a lunch and Elsa will be glad to show you the wonderful view of the city and the valley." Elsa blushed. She hoped that Karl could not read her mother's intentions as easily as she could. Here was a fine young man — handsome, and a member of the Church. He would make a good husband for her daughter. Then she would forget her foolish notions of wanting to travel to other places — including America. It was all quite providential. "You are off work by five tomorrow — are you not?" she asked Elsa. "Maria can bring down the lunch and it is close to the funicular railroad. You could meet Elsa there at the shop, perhaps?" Elsa was speechless at this blatant arranging, but Karl was not. "Yes, indeed," he agreed, his smile lighting up his face again. They all walked back to the chapel for sacrament meeting that evening, and Elsa forgot her annoyance with her mother in the sweet spirit of the meeting. As she sat at the organ playing the final hymn, she glanced down and thought, Mother is right. No one should want anything better than what we have here. The next evening Maria appeared at the shop at ten min- utes of five. Karl came almost immediately behind her. As they left and handed him the "J could join you," said Maria quickly. Then, with a mischieyous grin, she added, "But | won't." They both walked over to the funicular railroad. Elsa wondered if Karl had the money for the ride and suggested, walk up, you know. It isn't such a hard climb — and it's a lovely evening." "Qh, no! I want to try this straight-up railroad," he replied. "Perhaps, if it is still light enough, we can walk down." He bought tickets and they settled themselves in the straighttook only 4 the top, the river and the valley below. "will this do?" asked Elsa. Karl took a deep breath. "Ah, this would do to stay forever! Forever," "Although, this lunch, had in mind. However, come back again." "Oh, I do hope 5°; I hope that we can come often." Elsa laid papers on the grass and the snowy cloth over them. She drew forth sandwiches made from crusty rolls and leftovers from yesterday's meat. There were pickles, cheese, and some small fancy pastries. THE TURN OF THE WHEEL Tey ate almost in silence. Below the Neckar River wound its way through the lush valley to join the Bhine. The green of the mountainsides was broken near the base by the spacious groun s and dull red battlements of t ancient castle. "You were very fortunate during the war," observed Karl. "Your city was not hurt." "Yes," Elsa agreed. "In that we were fortunate." "J was too young to remember much about it. Father. Maria does not remember him at all. He was kind man." "Yes, It is well to remember want down where the Neckar joims the Rhine and then on to the ocean." _ "And then.° - 9" "Oh, on across the ocean, of course." "And on around the world and back to Heidelberg," he went on, she answered lightly. After finishing lunch, they walked up the path a short distance. Then Elsa said, "Tf we start now, we can take one of the roads back to town. It is 4 delightful walk — when one is going downhill." "Then let us go." He stopped where they had lunched and gathered a dozen small stones. 733 OCTOBER 1964 Then he put them in a little heap. "What in the world is that for?" she asked. "To mark the spot — the most beautiful in the world. So that we can find it when we come again." "And do you think the stones will stay? The first small boy who comes along will use them to toss down the side of the mountain." "So? Well, it does not matter. It is marked well enough up here."' He tapped his forehead. Elsa smiled and started down the path. Before they reached town, the first lights had begun to flicker. They lit up the Old Bridge above the dark river and an occasional building at the University, where some students were still at work. Karl reached for her hand and his grasp was warm and sure. There was strength and stability in this man. She glanced down at the river where the boats were floating slowly down towards the Rhine and withdrew her hand. Her heart was in one of those boats — floating down towards the Rhine. (To be continued) Linnie M. Findlay Earth's gift of life is rich and full Free given, not yet earned; Some time to hear earth's wisdom, To ponder lessons learned. The call to share in freedom's light, The reaching up for truth, The growth of giving service, The charge of leading youth. The comfort of a place called home, Warm joys of family, Familiar soil where flowers grow, A garden and a tree. Bewildered by earth's generous gift That grows from year to year — Stretch wide my understanding Of my full purpose here. 734 Literature Lessons "You'll find the lesson previews in the June issue of the Magazine,' said the president of the Relief Society, "in case you want to get started on them this summer. And thank you so much. I am sure you will thoroughly enjoy conducting the literature lessons." I saw her to her car, then returned to the living room and sat down, completely overwhelmed. 'What is the matter with me? I should have told her I couldn't do it. Surely she could have found someone more qualified than I, someone whose education is not so limited, and Vilate R. McAllister who doesn't tremble in fear before a group of people." But she had been so sure it was inspiration that led her to me and, after all, I do have plenty of time, a boon not everyone enjoys. "It will be a matter of lots of study," I told myself, and went in search of that June issue. I read the preview, consisting of a short introduction and a listing of the subject each month, together with the objective for each lesson. A feeling came over me that I recognized as from a past experience. It was the feeling I had when I first came to Salt Lake City, and, having been 735 OCTOBER 1964 informed that the east side of the city is rimmed with canyons, whose streams furnish water for the thirsty valley below, had been driven around Wasatch Boulevard, past the mouths of seven or eight canyons, each one being named as we came to it. A glimpse, surely, but only a glimpse of the wonders in store for me when I should come to drive into the canyons, explore them, and make them mine. I could hardly wait for the July issue, so I could "drive" into that first lesson. Finally it arrived, and I turned immediately to the lesson, something I had never done before. Avidly I read it, and again experienced a nostalgic feeling, the emotions I had on my first drive into Big Cottonwood Canyon. I remembered the exhilaration, the fresh air, the sunshine, the crags and forested slopes, the gurgling stream, the winding road with a fresh vista at every turn. With slight variations, I had experienced the same never-to-be-forgotten thrills, as I had opportunity later to visit each canyon in turn. But I knew that first drive had not prepared. Me to be a guide to others on a scenic trip, any more than the first cursory reading of the lesson prepared me to guide a roomful of Relief Society sisters into the joyous experience I felt was in store for them. Since it seemed a moment for profitable meditation, I allowed myself to go back into my later experiences with the canyons. I had met an artist, who had pointed out to me the magnificence of certain peaks, the changing lights and seasons, the shadows of the 736 forest, the picturesqueness of small scenes along the stream, with the overhanging boughs and churning water. On another occasion, a naturalist had called my attention to various and numerous flora and fauna, all pursuing the purposes of their creation scarce observed by man. He identified a rare bird call, which I learned to recognize for myself. He showed me wild flowers, which sent me to the library for fascinating books on the subject. A geologist interpreted the various formations and their history as he read it, and gave me helpful pamphlets. A_philosopher-poet quoted Wordsworth and Bryant and Edna St. Vincent Millay. A historian told me of prehistoric people who roamed the canyon, and of early-day happenings. The Mormon pioneers had carved crude trails where now were excellent roads. They had held celebrations here. They had hauled granite from these ledges under almost impossible conditions, to build their temple. Once many mills dotted these streams from which they drew power to make flour, paper, lumber products, and other things to help conquer the wilderness. An agriculturist told me of the wealth that came from the diverted streams to the farms _ below. These and many more experiences had added to the richness of my acquaintance with the canyons, which gradually came to be a part of me, and I finally was able to take my visiting friends there, and give them much more than just a quick glimpse of the scenic drive. As I reflected on these things, a flash of inspiration almost con- sumed my being. I realized that if I wanted to make these lessons mine, I must do a great deal of individual study. To my joy, as I got into it, I found that at leadership meeting I could talk with others who were filled with enthusiasm and the desire to communicate, including a_ well-qualified stake class leader. I discovered that there were lectures I could attend, classes I could take. In my children's old history books were chapters of refresher historical background. Their high-school literature books had interesting comments and questions on the writings. Use of my dictionary gave me fresh understanding of words I had been slipping over for years. Library shelves contained critical essays that revealed to me qualities in the literature I would not have recognized with my limited background. Paperbacks abounded to furnish inexpensive copy and supplements. At lectures and classes I made friends among people who were fulfilling a like calling to my own, and used the telephone to exchange ideas with them. To keep me on the track, there was supplied at the leadership department meeting the outline from the General Board, directing me to the points of greatest value to the sisters, and the Generaf Board instruction that all supplementary material used must support the objective of the lesson. This served as the control in utilizing supplementary material. As each Magazine came, I familiarized myself with the lesson in that issue, and found that everywhere I turned were quotes A SCENIC VIEW OF THE LITERATURE LESSONS from the authors, or articles about them. This started a collection of tear sheets, which included pictures. This supplemented the visual aid kits available to me from the B. Y. U. At our leadership meeting we all brought our visual aids and evaluated them to be sure we would not use too many. I was soon so wrapped up in literature that I considered months in advance how I would present each lesson: this one a panel discussion, that one an "Interview" with an impersonated author, who would help with the reading of the poems. At another, two or three sisters, with special dramatic ability, could present a skit, which would bring out the salient facts about an author, and dramatize parts of his work. A song would present itself to my notice, perhaps in the middle of the night, that would be just right to begin the lesson, or more often to close it. I set up little private objectives of my own, such as imparting to others the keen joy and satisfaction I found in delving into the hearts and minds of the articulate people of other times and places. Or to help the mothers to encourage their children to develop a love of reading and a discrimination in reading matter. Or, again, I could see where a certain sister might derive help for her problems by preparing a certain bit of inspiring material. As I prepared each lesson, I went back to the Magazine, and reread it time after time, and found that each reading brought renewed understanding and discovery of richness and meaning I had missed before. Now I was 737 OCTOBER 1964 really bringing something of myself to it. The lessons, like my canyons, were coming alive with all sorts of fascinating facets and possibilities. As the president had foretold, I found myself thoroughly enjoying my class, so thoroughly that the members of my family often goodnaturedly commented that "Mom eats and sleeps and breathes literature." Which is F Beauty probably true. But how else can one make it truly a part of oneself, to the point where, after a lesson, some of the sisters express a desire to get hold of a precious book and read more? That, dear sisters, is the goal, the dream, and the crowning reward of being a literature leader, and makes any amount of effort splendidly worthwhile. Rowena Jensen Bills Beauty lies in dew-filled roses, Nostalgic summer moon imposes Along a magic lover's lane. ' Beauty lies in the mind matured,.. ° a: In patience that has Jong endured, And in the humility of a tempered will. Beauty lies in the hush of sorrow, 738 Music of laughter, the brink of tears, Beginnings of gold-dawned tomorrows, And in the passing of love-shared years. Mystery of violets kissed by rain, In the loneliness our memories fill, } »-e) OCTOBER 1964 She was not going to give in on this thing. Even Don _ himself had admitted, time and again, that it was risky to stop for hitchhikers along the road. "You're just asking for trouble," Rita had said only last week when Don stopped to pick up a shabbily dressed man on the freeway. "My car broke down," the man told them, indicating the fenderless clunk at the side of the road, and Don had given her that "Aren't you ashamed?" look. "Well, he could have been a robber!" she argued defensively, after they let the man off at a garage. "But he wasn't." Don grinned at her, then, and they laughed together. This was different. They were on their vacation. Don only had a week, and Rita didn't want to spend it picking up hitchhikers. They were going to Lake Dorn, and their two-seater sportscar, Don's first anniversary surprise, was loaded with camping gear and sleeping bags. There just isn't room for any extra passengers, she thought, as the little car sped up the canyon to the high mountain lake. "Honey?" said Don tentatively. He looked at her quickly. "Honey, I know it's risky to stop for hitchhikers. All I said was 'What would we do if we had a breakdown or an accident or something? What if no one would stop for us? Isn't it the charitable thing to stop and offer aid when someone needs it?" "T just don't want to talk about it. We aren't going to break down or have an accident, so it's pointless to talk about it. Besides,' she said, after a pause, 740 "we'd never know if the trouble was real or only pretended." "Honey, I'm sure the Lord would let us know in some way. You know the scripture in Moroni about the good fountain. It can't bring forth bitter water." "No, I don't remember it, and I don't want to discuss it." "You're being very stubborn, Rita," he said seriously. A smile suddenly erased his frown. "But let's not let it upset our good time. All right?" "All right." Rita smiled back. "T hope we make the lake before dark. I'm starved!" "Can you cook in the dark?" They both laughed. Everything was fine again, almost. Rita felt her spirits lift, and the feel of the road turning under them and the fresh smell in the air made her want to sing. She started to hum, and soon she and Don were singing a hymn. "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom; Lead thou me on...." The afternoon sun through the windshield made Rita drowsy. She slept for awhile, with her head on her arm. A thumping jolt shook her to a sitting position. "What's the matter?" "A bad hole in the road. The car's all right, but it looks like some rough road ahead — and dusty. Better roll up your window." Down slowed the car and eased it into a rugged dirt section. "That sign we saw said there was construction for five miles. We're in for a hot, bumpy ride." Don rolled kis own window up, and the little car bucked and humped over the roughly graded road. "Don! What's that?" Rita straightened in the seat. In the swirling dust ahead of them, a figure waved frantic arms. A car was parked by the roadside. "Somebody's in trouble.'' Don looked at Rita. "Shall we stop?" She bit her lip. The figure in the road was a woman dressed in a denim suit. She really did appear to be distressed, but what if it were a trick? Don was slowing down, but still he glanced at her, waiting for some change of expression. "We have to stop," said Rita, finally, and Don pulled off the road behind the parked car. The woman ran to Don's side of the car and leaned against it, breathing heavily. Rita could see that she was an older woman with streaks of white in her hair. She looked very tired. "Thank you for stopping. My husband's up there...." She pointed upward to an outcropping of jagged boulders above the line of trees. '"He's hurt, and I can't drive to go for help." At her words, Don looked inquiringly at Rita. "T'll stay here,"' she said. "I'm not much for climbing." He got out of the car and_ started through the brush at the side of the road. The woman followed him. Rita sat in the car, watching them scramble over loose rocks and. Gravel, pushing aside clinging brush, until they disappeared down the incline. "This ought to delay us an hour or more," she said to herself, feeling the bitterness catch in her throat. "And all because Don has to be charitable! 'Charity begins at home."" She said the oft-repeated words aloud. Begins at home. Yes, perhaps it does. THE GOOD FOUNTAIN She thought of the passage from Moroni Don had mentioned. She did recall it now. "For behold, a bitter fountain cannot bring forth good water; neither can a good fountain bring forth bitter water."' She remembered, too, Moroni's message at the end of that chapter. Charity, the pure love of Christ. The bitterness drained away and she thought of the woman — she had such tired, desperate lines in her face. With sudden decision, Rita opened the car door and went to the edge of the road. There were no cars in sight in either direction, but a thick layer of dust hung in the air, choking her and coating the leaves with a fine covering. The sun pressed hotly on the top of her head. I can't wait here, she thought. T'll roast to death. The man might really need help. Sue followed the trail of broken twigs and crushed undergrowth down a steep slope, to the edge of a tiny streamlet. She jumped across it and looked for a sign to tell her where the others had gone. The trees whispered in a delicate, cooling breeze, but she could see no trace of her husband and the woman. She felt a sudden panic and struggled to overcome it. Silly! She thought. If I just look carefully, I'm certain to find where they have gone. She studied her quiet surroundings, straining to see into deep shadows. Perhaps I can see a footprint or something, she thought. The ground beneath her feet was hard and dry, rippled with rock. Then she saw the dangling finger of a bent twig, swaying slightly, as if it were pointing the way. TAl OCTOBER 1964 She went closer to the tree, and in the soft earth beneath it, she could see the imprint of Don's canvas shoe. Sighing with relief, she pulled her way past the tree and started up the incline. Above her nearly a hundred feet were the boulders where the injured man lay. Rita could see nothing of her husband or the woman. She began pulling herself up the side of the canyon wall, digging her shoes into the dirt and carefully testing each branch and twig before she allowed it to hold her full weight. Before she had gone ten feet, perspiration was running down her face, and her blouse was smudged and streaked with dirt. She stopped for a moment to wipe her face with her hand. How could that woman have climbed this slope? Rita was young and strong, but her muscles were taut and trembling with exertion. A few feet above her the hillside became more rocky, with less brush, and the going was easier. Now, above her, she thought she heard Don's voice. She gazed up, but a large, angled piece of granite obstructed her view. Impatiently, she tried to pull herself up over the rock. Her handhold slipped, and she dropped off the rock and fell heavily on her leg. Stunned, she sat, not knowing quite what to do. Her ankle throbbed violently and made her gasp with pain. "What a stupid thing to do!" she said aloud. When the pain subsided a bit, she wiggled her toes. Finding no increase in pain, she moved to get her weight off the leg. She tested her ankle gingerly. It was all right. Thank goodness! She had bruised the 742 outside of her foot on a sharp rock. Her leg was able to hold her up, so she dusted herself off and started upward again. The voice was louder now, and she called to Don. "Rita? What are you doing down there? I thought you were going to stay in the car." She heard him scrambling down the rocks above her. He appeared on the rock from which she had fallen and jumped down to her. "What are you doing here? You aren't the hiking kind, remember?" "T'm not," she agreed, still feeling the bruise on her ankle. "But I couldn't just sit there. Besides, I thought I might be able to help." 'Well, I'd have trouble getting him down alone. I'm going to have to go for help. Can I count on you to look after them? Mrs. Harding doesn't seem too well, either."" She nodded her head. Go for help? That will take hours, Rita thought. Precious hours of our vacation time. Precious hours of the man's life, too, she reminded herself, and she climbed after Don's vanishing figure. Mir. Harding lay on a ridge of granite, amid piles of loose rocks and earth. Don boosted his wife the last few feet over the ledge, and she felt alarm and fear at the sight of the man's face. It was covered with dried blood, and bits of dead leaves and dirt clung in hardened clumps. The skin beneath was gray. Mrs. Harding sat at his head with her hand on her husband's shoulder, looking as if she might faint at any moment. Rita went to her and took her arm. "Don is going to go for help, Mrs. Harding." The woman looked up at her, not seeming to understand. "I'll stay here with you until he brings someone back. Everything will be fine." As she heard herself say the words, she felt a quiver of uncertainty. Everything will be fine, you hope. The afternoon sun was rapidly sliding behind the tops of the mountains, the breeze that so gently brought relief from the heat of the road now chilled the waiting women. Shadows reached at them with dark hands. What if Don didn't return before it grew dark? Rita was not at all sure she could keep calm. Mrs. Harding had not spoken since Don left, and she had given up trying to converse with her. She jumped at a strange sound. She had been sitting on a rock not far from Mrs. Harding, and now she felt the older woman clawing at her arm. "Tt's all right, Mrs. Harding. Everything's fine." But it was not fine. Something in Mrs. Harding's face told her that. It was Mr. Harding. Rita went over to him. He was moaning. She knelt beside him and touched his face and hands. They were cold, and he was trembling and breathing rapidly. I've got to get him warm, she thought. She hadn't even the sweater she had brought along for cool nights at the lake. The Hardings were both in short sleeves. There was nothing she could use for warmth, and the wind began to billow the trees with its stirring. A fire, she thought suddenly. If I could only build a fire. She carried no matches, and her pockets were empty. Quickly, she THE GOOD FOUNTAIN went through Mr. Harding's pockets. A pocket knife, some loose change, a handkerchief... No matches. A swift questioning of Mrs. Harding brought forth a lipstick, a pocket comb, and a crumpled tissue. Well, she thought, if the Indians could do it, there must be a way. She opened the pocket knife, pulling out one of the stiffly sprung blades inexpertly. She searched the ground in the rapidly failing light and found two dry sticks. She stripped their bark with the knife, piling the shavings together on the ground, then she rubbed the two sticks together furiously, until her arms, unused to such activity, would go no more. She felt the sticks. They were barely warm. Disgusted, she threw them down and sat in the dirt. A hard, frightening lump began in her chest, and she knew the tears were not far behind it. Oh, dear Lord. Help me! If I don't find a way to get him warm, he may die, she thought desperately. In helpless anger at herself, Rita picked up a handful of the loose rocks and threw them, too, into the darkness. A shower of sparks as the stones struck a larger rock startled her out of her dismay. Sparks! Eagerly, she took up another handful and began striking them on a nearby rock. Each blow caused a tiny spark to fly into the night. She excitedly gathered her shavings together with Mrs. Harding's tissue, and holding them directly under the rock, she began to strike. Tensely, she knelt at her work, and in spite of the coolness of the 743 OCTOBER 1964 night air, perspiration trickled down her face. "'Maddening little bits of fire," she muttered when the sparks flew everywhere but onto the shavings. Then, amazingly, one fell into the pile in her hand, and she watched in anxious suspense as the point of redness brightened. With great tenderness, she breathed onto it, and as if she had breathed the breath of life, the point separated and sprang into a circle, igniting the pieces of bark. When she at last saw the healthy yellow flame licking toward her hand, she knew she had succeeded. She pushed together a ring of stones with her foot and set her growing fire-child in the center. With its small illumination, Rita was able to find more dry sticks, which she shaved into her hungry fire. In the darkness she found some large branches, which she laid crosswise in the fire. She could already feel the heat of the flames warming her. Looking up from her labors, Rita saw Mrs. Harding bending over her husband, pulling him close to the fire. She hurried to help her, and soon they had placed him near the circle, and the older woman had cushioned his head in her lap. "He's all right," Mrs. Harding said after awhile. "The fire has stopped his trembling." Wonderful fire, Rita thought. "T think it's put a little courage in us all," she said. The older woman nodded, smiling down at her husband. Rita thought of the hymn she and Don had been singing earlier. "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom; lead thou me on!" Rita began to sing the words 744 again, softly to herself, as she poked the fire with a stick. To her surprise, Mrs. Harding's quavering high voice joined in with hers. "The night is dark and I am far from home; Lead thou me on!" Suddenly, behind her, she heard a movement among the rocks, and Don's grinning face came out of the mountain blackness. "Hi! Did you think I wasn't coming back?" Rita fell into his open arms and hugged him, happily. "Oh, Don, you've been gone so long. It got cold, and I had to make a fire, and...." She noticed the men standing behind her husband. "Sheriff Gunther, Deputy Walsh, this is my wife, Rita. There's the injured man," he said pointing to Mr. Harding. "Thank you, Mr. Gardner. I think Frank and I can get him down all right, if you'll see that the ladies get down safely." "Right," said Don, gripping Rita's shoulder. ''Hey," he whispered. "How did you get that fire started? I didn't know you were a boy scout!" "There are lots of things you don't know about me, yet," Rita replied, laughing. "Tf we hadn't seen that fire and heard you singing, we might not have found you until dawn," said Sheriff Gunther. "It's pitch black." As the sheriff and Deputy Walsh made Mr. Harding comfortable in the back of the officers' station wagon, Mrs. Harding turned to Rita and took her hand. "We did a foolish thing, climbing alone up there. When James fell and I tried to stop the bleeding, I prayed that God would send someone to help me. He must have led you both to me. God bless you for coming up there with me." Say thank you to the good fountain, Rita thought, feeling her emotions swell. "Good luck," Don called, as the station wagon pulled out onto the road. Then he took Rita's THE GOOD FOUNTAIN hand and opened the car door for her. "You know," he said, leaning over her, "that's some wife I've got." And he kissed her. "We ought to make Lake Dorn by morning," he said, climbing into the car. "In time for breakfast, I hope," said Rita, snuggling against his shoulder. Wind Evelyn Fjeldsted The wind can be a gentle thing, Moving softly over furrowed lands, Singing songs to waken fields and streams, Bringing warmth from desert sands. Like voices from another world, Little winds come by at night, And like a harp of many strings, Express their concord or a greater might. The wind can transport passengers — Invisible and riding free; It can drift a sea gull on its course, And land a seedling to become a tree. Wind can make the shadows. Dance, Like marionettes in a moonlight trance. 745 They Joined the Church Because of Relief Society Maxine T. Grimm Dotores Suarez was met in May 1963 by two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds of Mapleton, Utah, and Sister Smithen of Layton, Utah, in the city of Manila, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission. ''We began teaching her and her family," wrote the sisters. "The eldest daughter joined the Church, but Dolores herself did not have time to attend any meetings." Then the lady missionaries organized a small neighborhood Relief Society. They made special invitations which they handed out, announced the meetings in regular services, contacted other missionaries in the area for interested women, and made visits to their own contacts to be sure that everyone would feel welcome. A program was carefully planned to outline the history, duties, and responsibilities of Relief Society, and to explain the weekly lessons. Articles made by Relief Society members in the United States were brought by Sister Maxine Grimm to show the many skills taught in work meetings. She also brought an old pump organ she had used during the war to accompany Latter-day Saint servicemen for their meetings in New Guinea and the Philippines. This, plus borrowed chairs, made a temporary start in the home of the two lady missionaries, but it was an important beginning. They had covered one entire wall of the room with pictures, articles, and pamphlets showing the activities of all of the auxiliaries of the Church. Extra Relief Society Magazines were ready to be given out after this valuable Magazine had been shown to them. Twenty-five women arrived, and one man, who seemed a bit uncomfortable with all of the women, but remained until the end. Punch and cookies were served after the meeting, questions were answered, and invitations extended for the following week. Dolores Suarez attended this next meeting and seemed to take more interest. The following week the sisters began a training program. They taught all of those attending, the principles of leading the singing. Each used a bamboo baton to help her get the real spirit of conducting. Sister Suarez led one song by herself the following week and did well. The next week she conducted. At this meeting all the women present, over half of them nonmembers, bore their testimonies. Dolores Suarez, in bearing hers, showed deep emotion and sincerity. Dolores Magpayo Suarez was baptized September 14, 1963. The only meetings she had attended were Relief Society meetings. "Sister Suarez now attends every single meeting she possibly 746 Philippine Islands "ON ZA can," write the sisters. "She has many activities, and is a counselor to the Manila Branch Relief Society president, which makes her sort of 'President' of our department Relief Society in San Juan. She is a great strength to her own family, to us missionaries, and to other members. Her husband has joined the Church, and is the same way." They have eight children. They are both active in civic affairs, also. Sister Suarez is on the district Girl Scout Council and very active in that position — and very well loved and respected. She is one of the officers of a new committee in Quezon City designed to help the youth by giving them good activities and opportunities for leadership. She is active in politics, having been on the election committee as a registrar. She has a lovely voice; formerly, she sang on radio. Here, then, is a valuable Church member, who gained her testimony through Relief Society. Xk ok & kk Tue Relief Society brought me into The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," Rosalina Agana Honrado says. She began attending the dependent Relief Society of the Manila Branch, Philippine Islands, Southern Far East Mission, with her neighbor Sister Salud Jamenez. Two lady missionaries, Sister Edmunds and Sister Smithen, had been teaching two of Mrs. Honrado's nephews, but she had never heard any of the lessons. Mrs. Honrado was given an opportunity in Relief Society meeting to pray, lead the singing, and conduct the music, just as are the other members of Relief Society, whether they are members of the Church or not. She gave a strong testimony during the testimony meeting. Rosalina Agana Honrado asked to be baptized after attending only Relief Society meetings, without any lessons from the missionaries and without attending any other meetings. She obtained a testimony of the gospel through Relief Society. The two missionary sisters gave her the necssary lessons before she was baptized. Her nephews were baptized, and her daughter and a niece will soon join the Church. Sister Honrado is very active in the Church, is very humble, and is a good Latter-day Saint. The missionaries write: "Our thanks for the Relief Society program and the tremendous lessons and possibilities for fellowshipping people." 747 Clay cu Kile Ctliber |, Gray morning mist haunts the little sidestreets. Morning's cool hush runs over their ground. Sunlight comes late to discover these places; Frost is upon them, a silver breath-bound. All the smal! Houses are quiet, alike, Side-by-side, standing in trim yards of lawn From echo of schoolbell till bustle of playtime; These are the gray hours. The children are gone. Ll. Sky-bright and summer-warm, noon barely paused. Now the gold motes dance in gold that was green, Spangle the sidewalks, impatiently glitter — But softly October winds puff, press, and preen. Poured like a tide into freedom from walls, Children surge over the sidewalks and grass — Run in and out of their eager-doored houses! Leaning long eastward, the slow shadows pass. Ill. Feathers of cloud line the wake of set sun A blue hour begins the unrolling of night. Once more deserted, the play-yards lie silent, Outlined by picket fence, ghostly in white. Dark brings a chill premonition of frost. The matched rows of houses draw back from their gates, Holding the children safe-guarded inside them. A querulous cricket chirrups... And waits.... 748 Ramona W. Cannon MRS. HELEN G. CASSIDY, wife of Brigadier General Patrick F. Cassidy, Chief of Staff, Seventh Corps, Stuttgart, Germany, is the new director of volunteers for the American Red Cross in the European area. She will be the leader of approximately 3,200 Red Cross volunteers in Europe, the United Kingdom, and in the Middle East. Mother of six children, Mrs. Cassidy has still been able to allocate many hours of each week to this important voluntary service. AMONG the many valuable bulletins on homemaking published by the United States Government, and available from the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C., is the compilation of food plans, costs, nutritional tables, and recipes, Family Food Budgeting for Good Meals and Good Nutrition (price 10c). THE WOMEN'S BANK of Seoul, Korea, with a world-wide reputation, expects to open a branch in West Germany, where every third small business entrepreneur is a woman. This bank, catering exclusively to women, encourages them to save money. It welcomes small accounts and has a safe-deposit department and a safe-keeping service for jewelry. ALTHEA K. HOTTELL, former dean of women at the University of Pennsylvania, has expressed concern over the small percentage of women graduating from colleges in the United States. ''What disturbs most of us," she states, "is that only about onefourth of the women capable of profiting from higher education are in college — a waste of talent this country can ill afford.'' SENORA ENRIQUETA GOMEZ de PEREZ, ninety-two, a former elementary school teacher of Venezuelan President Raul Leoni and also of his mother, was honored at a reception and ceremony at Maraflores Palace, Caracas, April 24. Among the distinguished guests, including the Minister of Education and Senora Leoni, she was decorated with a special medal for ''dedication to the teaching field for more than thirty years." GRACE BARKER WILSON, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of a third volume of poetry Stuff of Dreams (Merchants Press, Taylor, Texas). She was superintendent of the Central Consolidated School in Kirtland, New Mexico, for twenty-four years. 749 ONE thinks of refinement as a process which eliminates the dross and leaves that which is pure; as the polishing agent that removes the tarnish and brings out the patina of beauty; as the gentle abrasive which smooths away defects to bring about perfection. Refinement is a continuing action which when applied to human lives involves activities, associations, experiences, and decisions. Activity in Relief Society adds a luster of refinement to the lives of women. It provides for them a schooling in spiritual, cultural, and practical matters which serves to eliminate less productive activities. A polish is added to the natural talents of women when these talents are used to beautify the world around them. Striving for perfection, accepting the highest standards of performance, shunning unrighteousness are all refining influences of Relief Society. There is refinement in being close to the Lord, in learning his word, studying his life and teachings, and giving oneself to doing the will of the Father. There is refinement in association with others of high ideals and practices. The example of high-minded women is a guide and a goal. Truly one's manner of living and actions have effect upon the lives of others. There is refinement in selflessness, in forgetting oneself in the service of others. An expression of loving kindness blesses the giver Volume 51 October 1964 Number 10 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer as well as the recipient. Nothing brings more joy than the exercise of compassion or the achievement of empathy. There is refinement in activity using one's talents, not allowing them to diminish because they are not used, nor placidly accepting mediocrity when much more is possible. Talents are gifts from heaven to be used for more abundant personal living as well as to bring joy to others. There is refinement in increasing one's skills, discovering aptitudes, enlarging abilities, being actively engaged in uplifting study and work. The admonition to avoid idleness, to shun its enticements finds acceptance in the work of Relief Society. There is refinement in achieving greater success in being a better homemaker, a move devoted wife and mother. Families are the beneficiaries of the mother's increased desire to bring love and security to her home, creating an atmosphere conducive to peace and happiness. There is refinement in accepting responsibility and discharging this responsibility to the best of one's ability. Nothing enlarges one's vision so greatly as having others depend upon one for leadership — wise, inspiring leadership. Teaching one another is one of the important responsibilities. That his daughters might have all of these blessings and opportunities, the Lord caused Relief Society to be established. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue. H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner —L. W. M. Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhiil Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Retirements from the General Board Iv is with a sense of loss that the General Board announces the retirement from the General Board oi Charlotte A. Larsen, Pearle M. Olsen, LaPriel S. Bunker, and Hazel S. Cannon. Charlotte A. Larsen has served on the Board since March 25, 1953. Throughout her eleven years of service she has performed her every assignment faithfully and with a high degree of excellence. Her appointments have been extensive and varied. She has served on all but one of the major educational committees, and freely given of her artistic talents for socials and conference presentations. She has given outstanding service in community assignments, as well as writing a series of Relief Society lessons on "Safety in the Home" as the result of her association with the Salt Lake Safety Council. For the last four years she has represented Relief Society on the Heart Association. Every request that has been made of Sister Larsen has been carried out well through her artistic endowments and capable leadership abilities. She has honored her calling in every way. Pearle M. Olsen was appointed to the General Board on February 19, 1958. She has assumed the responsibilities that have been given her wholeheartedly and with a meticulous care for detail. Her attention has especially been directed to the visiting teacher work and literature. Her love of the beautiful aided her in the service she gave to the work meeting program. For the past six years she has represented Relief Society on the Safety Council. She has manifested a deep love for Relief Society and has carried out every assignment with a sweet spirit and with great devotion to the work. Every talent with which the Lord has blessed her has been placed by Sister Olsen at the service of Relief Society. LaPriel S. Bunker was appointed to the General Board on June 1, 1960, and given a leave of absence when, soon after her appointment, her husband was called as mission president of the California Mission. On his release Sister Bunker again devoted herself to her calling on the General Board, until the present time when she is released to join her husband in his call as a counselor in the Salt Lake Temple Presidency. Sister Bunker had had a rich experience in Relief Society work prior to her call to the General Board as both stake and mission Relief Society president. Her service on the Board includes a chairmanship of the work meeting committee, service on the literature committee, and as a member of the quarterly conference committee. Her love for Relief Society has been clearly manifest over the years. 752 Hazel S. Cannon was called to the General Board on February 1, 1962. She came filled with enthusiasm and a desire to do her best. She has entered zealously into every call which has been made upon her and devoted her outstanding capabilities to a successful completion of them. She is a school teacher by profession and her teaching ability has been at the disposal of the General Board in its teaching program. She has been given special work in the secretarial field and has valued her calling at all times. The General Board and the sisters throughout the Church whom these four sisters have served extend to them their love and appreciation with the prayer that their future callings may be joyous to them. The Golden, Golden Time Christie Lund Coles Now comes the hour of ripening, Rich and golden on the wheat; Amber-hued on pear-tree bough; Tinseled shade upon the street. Now, comes the rich fulfillment time: Orange pumpkins in the field; Gold-pink peaches on the bough; Sweet pearmain in yellow yield. Now, comes the golden, golden time; Aspens move in golden grace; Bird song lifts in golden notes; Gentle sun-warmth gilds the face. Dew on a Peace Rose Judy Paget Tumbaco, Ecuador Rosio, this rose began to burn And would have withered in the sun, Already its outer petals Are wide and low, But you came with enchanted fingers And cast a diamond net Of dreams upon its flesh, Sealing the perfume and the pain Within a silken heart. 753 Left to right: Ella Ellis Murray, President, North Ogden Fifth Ward Relief Society; Orba Ellis Brown, President, North Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society; Ora Ellis Bybee, President, Phoenix Sixth Ward Relief Society. Three of a Family Marvel M. Young President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society THE year 1963 brought an occasion of special importance to Relief Society, for when Sister Ella Ellis Murray was called to be Relief Society president in the newly created North Ogden Fifth Ward, in the Ben Lomond Stake, Utah, she became the third member of her family to serve as a president simultaneously, It is truly a rare coincidence that three sisters have been called to preside over three Relief Societies at the same time, in two different States. Sister Orba Ellis Brown has served as president of the North Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society, Ben Lomond Stake, for 754 several years, as has Sister Ora Ellis Bybee of the Phoenix Sixth Ward, Phoenix Stake, Arizona. These three sister presidents, in every word and every action reflect the wonderful religious training and deep spiritual background which they received in the home of their parents, Charles and Louise Southwick Ellis. May our lives reflect sweetly in the lives of our children, as have the lives and training of the parents of these three outstanding Relief Society presidents, who are doing a magnificent work among the daughters of our Heavenly Father. the Home Blessed Autumn Dorothy J. Smith L. Ooxine out my window I see the signs of a declining year. The shades of golden brown, yellow, and mixed green hues of autumn make me sigh, not a sigh of sorrow, but of relief. The busy year is nearing its close. Children have been home all summer with their noise and activity that go with the hot sultry days. Now they are back in school. The canning is nearly all done. The satisfaction that comes with knowing that you have provided for your family gives you a feeling of comfort. The rows of fruits and vegetables, with the red of berries, beets, and jam, the yellow and green of vegetables lend to the joy of accomplishment. Winter is a time of comparative rest, and we have a'short time to prepare ourselves for another season. The unbroken white blanket of snow on the fields is a restful sight to the eye, and to the spirit. Man is reminded that God is a merciful God. He gives all living things a time to rest, to rejuvenate, and to start over again. He has seen the necessity of rest and quiet. The soul needs a time to evaluate the meaning of its purpose, to look back and be proud, and have a chance to start again and be more perfect and bloom in the rebirth of spring, to grow through the busy months of summer and prepare for a time to rest and be quiet in the autumn of life. God, with his supreme wisdom, knows that man needs a time to sit back and enjoy the blessings of life and be thankful that Heavenly Father saw fit to let us take part in his plan in the seasons of life. Autumn, then, to me is a time of thanks, of quiet and rest. Blessed is autumn. 755 nit Shirley Thulin Have you ever been caught without a needle and thread or even a pin handy when you needed it most? Here is a clever and handy little homemade sewing kit to carry with you to prevent being caught unprepared. Take an old lipstick tube and clean it thoroughly. This is easy to do if you use cleaning tissue and roll it into a tube to wipe out the inside of the lipstick tube. Now use your pinking shears to cut a piece of flannel as wide as the lipstick tube and about two to three inches long. You can pin several tiny safety pins, two or three needles, and two or three straight pins in a row on the cloth. Take three or four toothpicks and break them off if they are a bit too long to fit in the tube. Wind a different color thread on each toothpick, using white, black, and perhaps a color nearest to the shade of the nylons you usually wear. Make a little split at the top of the toothpick to catch the end of the thread so that it won't unravel. Now place the toothpicks parallel to the needle and pins on the cloth and roll them all up as tiny as you can and the roll will fit right into the lipstick tube. Slip the lid on and you have a handy little kit that takes up practically no room at all. 756 a Arékict nf i ile | dea - a c Celia Willden Jensen - Artist of Celia Willden Jensen, Mancos, Colorado, has practiced her delightful hobbies for enough years to keep her always busy and long remembered. She has been concerned for the welfare of women who "'sit around just talking,'' instead of keeping busy with their hands. She has a special gift of piecing ''crazy-patch'' and patterned quilts and is very careful to sort the pieces according to weight and quality of the material, as well as considering the harmony of colors. She is an expert at arranging the batts and putting quilts on the frames. She has carded the wool and made the batts for many of her own quilts and, as work meeting leader in her ward, has been of great help to the young sisters who have been eager to learn the art of quilting from an expert. Mrs. Jensen is also an energetic maker of rugs, having cut and sewed ''miles of rug rags.'' In trying to recall the number of crocheted articles she has completed — bedspreads, tablecloths, and doilies — she says, ''| must have done acres of crocheting.'"" In her younger days she was a midwife, a maker of ''switches'"' (hair pieces), a renowned housekeeper and gardener, and in her later years she has taken care of her grandchildren on numerous occasions so that the young mothers could attend to their Church assignments. In addition to her five children, she reared an orphan niece. In July 1964 she presided as Queen on Colorado Day at the Four Corners Inter-Tribal Pow-wow. "That's true," she says, ''l was a seventy-nine-year-old queen."' 757 AkeE you a mother who dislikes spending hard-earned cash for Halloween costumes? Well, if you are, you are just one of the majority. But what to do about it? October brings Halloween and Halloween means costumes. It is evident, from all the protests, that the pillow-slip ghost of yesteryear is no longer tolerated. This (priceless or centsless) ghost that was such a universal favorite of children forty years ago — the one grandma could rig up in five minutes and at no expense — is today an outcast and no longer considered good company. Every mother wants her child to look as nice as the next one, and have all the fun that life affords. But, three or four dollars is a lot of money to spend for a costume made of shoddy materials, that are literally thrown to- 758 gether, a gaudy, ill-fitting "something-or-other" that will be worn once or twice, then discarded. It is not only a big expense but a real extravagance, if you have several children to outfit. There is one way to beat this extravagance — to cut expenses, yet let your child be the "Grandest Goblin" in the Halloween parade, and, at the same time, add glamor to your child's life and wardrobe. One clever mother has been doing it for years. Her children love it — they wouldn't have it any other way. With a little ingenuity and thoughtful planning she has heaped compliments upon her children. Teachers and classmates alike have appreciated her unique and beautiful costumes. Costumes, did I say? Yes, but costumes just for today —- tomorrow they are practical items of clothing. Some are glamor articles to spice up the wardrobe, to add comfort, enjoyment, and cultural development. Expensive? Not at all. According to this mother's own words, "I just can't throw money away on costumes. I came of pioneer stock, my money must work for me. Thrift is my middle name." For seventy-five cents she bought a remnant of heavy royal blue satin. There was sufficient yardage to make a pair of exotic, well-fitting pajama bottoms for nine-year-old Marilyn. Another remnant, a soft yellow satin with tiny rose and royal blue forgetme-nots scattered here and there, was just perfect for a "'coolie coat" to go with the pajama bottoms. From the royal blue satin scraps, she made bias cording from which she fashioned "frogs" to fasten to the front of the "coolie coat'? And give a Chinese effect. Two full-bloom carnations made of paper' were fastened over the ears. This completed the costume and transformed Marilyn into a beautiful little Chinese coolie maiden, and all for the humble price of $1.50. And the best part about it, Marilyn is still wearing the beautiful yellow and blue pajama outfit as a luxurious lounging ensemble. Christy, the little first grader, joined the Halloween parade in a darling Bo-Peep costume. Mother selected a gay flowered cotton print. She fashioned a tight fitting bodice, square neck, full gathered skirt, and perky ruffled sleeves. Bits of organdy and lace from the sewing box became an adorable little apron. Next, from some scraps, Mother made a wide black belt that graduated to points in front. This 759 OCTOBER 1964 was laced together with a long black shoelace that tied in a bow at the waist. The children fashioned a staff for Bo-Peep, tied it with a large bow, and Christy went to school the happiest BoPeep you ever saw. When the parade was over, Christy had a lovely little dress for church and school. Sandy was a sprightly Jack Frost. She appeared in a jaunty, peaked cap of bright green corduroy and a matching one-piece play dress with zippered front, to which mother had sewed handfuls of gaily colored artificial autumn leaves. Bright red stockings and fancy pointed elf shoes made of black oilcloth, which were run up in five minutes on the machine, completed her costume. Sandy's costume cost less than two dollars, and when the fun was over and the leaves removed, Sandy had a warm and comfortable play dress to wear through the winter. This play dress was such a boon to the wardrobe, it cut down on the ironing, and was always ready to wear. Sandy and Mother enjoyed it so much, Mother used the same pattern the following year. Only this time she purchased a bright yellow-orange corduroy, for the play outfit. Sandy went dressed as Prince Pumpkin. A large cardboard pumpkin was fashioned into a crown. Small colorful paper pumpkins with bright green leaves were arranged in an attractive design and sewed on the play suit. You, too, can have this pleasure. So, mothers, put on your thinking caps and join the thrift parade. Thrill your youngsters with pretty costumes and lovely practical clothes. Requited Bertha A. Kleinman | cannot soar with eagles on the ledge Of yonder peak above the glacier rim, But with the thrush that warbles in the sedge! Can attune to list his vesper hymn. | cannot span the ocean's frothy foam To disembark on some enchanted strand, But flowing crystal laves the fields of home And sates my quest in this my native land. | cannot reach to hail the forest king That towers in his timbered aisle retreat, But where the fronded ferns entwine and cling, | share the royal mantle at his feet, And there upon the emerald coverlet, The sky is mirrored in the violet. 760 The Day After Halloween Janice T. Dixon It happens each October. I resolve that next year — definitely next year— we will buy the pretty little plastic jack-o-lanterns that light up with a flashlight battery. No more messy pumpkins! And each year when the pungent pumpkin odor fills' the stores, and the memories of homemade jack-o-lanterns tug, I weaken — just a little bit. "We'll buy one small pumpkin," I tell the children. "Oh, brother! Look at this neat pumpkin!" nine-year-old Charles calls halfway across the store. "Shhhhh, dear, everyone is listening!" But his enthusiasm is not cooled by everyone's amused glances. ''Hey, I bet I could make a neat Frankenstein with this pumpkin." "It's too big. Let's have one little pumpkin with a pretty smiling face." ""Aaaaaa, who wants a smiling face? We want to scare everybody like this...." He puts his fingers in his mouth and pulls a terrible face. I pretend he belongs to that nice woman next to me busy choosing eggplants. My act works until seven-year-old Steven tugs at my arm. "Charles always gets 761 OCTOBER 1964 to make the jack-o-lanterns. I never get to do anything!" "We'll all work together and make a pretty smiling face on our jack-o-lantern."' "With cross-eyes and jagged teeth and a mouth that looks like this..."" Charles reminds me. "My pumpkin is going to have square teeth and round eyes," Steven insists. "Jagged teeth and cross-eyes," declares Charles. "T want mine to thmile like me," lisps five-year-old Danny, who has just exchanged his front two teeth for two dimes with the tooth fairy. Three-year-old Lucy proudly carries a small round pumpkin in her arms. "Mine," she announces. What can I say, except, "You may each choose one small, tiny, little pumpkin." The storeman has to carry the pumpkins to the car. They are much too large for any of us to carry, except Lucy's pumpkin. "Mine," she says, still carrying hers in her arms. Of course our jack-o-lanterns are the "beautiful-est, the smilyest, the biggest, and the scariest."" Watching the children carve the faces on their pumpkins is much more fun than turning on a flashlight battery in a pretty plastic pumpkin. What pretty plastic pumpkin could match Charles' Frankenstein pumpkin, with jagged teeth and cross-eyes; or Steven's square - toothed, round-eyed pumpkin, or Danny's toothless pumpkin, with a smile to match his? And careful as Lucy was, somehow her jack-olantern's mouth and nose were joined together. One-year-old 762 Douglas had a bite of each masterpiece. Awnp somehow I am coerced into finishing cleaning out the insides of the pumpkins, because, as Danny said, "It's too slippery!" But after Halloween, the jacko-lanterns line my kitchen sink, their brief night of glory forgotten by the children. The insides of the pumpkins are charred, and wax spots dot the bottom. There is nothing that smells quite like spoiled pumpkins, so I have my choice of throwing them out now, which disturbs my thrifty nature, or as always, to prepare them for freezing. With a sigh of resignation I wash each jack-o-lantern, trim off the charred places and wax dots. I cut each pumpkin in pieces, barely cover with water and boil until soft. Then I strain and freeze in plastic containers. I save out several cups of pumpkin and turn on the oven. "Oh, boy!" yells Steven, coming into the kitchen, "Pumpkin cookies! I get to make them!" "T want to bake my own recipe for pumpkin cake," says Charles. Both recipes are favorites of the family and are "child-proof" — at least in our family. The boys don't always sift ingredients, cream ingredients, or even measure accurately. Yet, despite all these handicaps, the pumpkin cookies and cakes are always successful. The recipes work equally well with fresh pumpkin, frozen pumpkin, or store-canned pumpkin. We usually triple the cookie recipe and make twelve dozen at a time. This way they last a couple of days. PUMPKIN COOKIES \, c. Shortening 1% c. Sugar 1 egg 1 ec. Pumpkin % c. Nuts 1 sc. Raisins chocolate chips (optional) 2% c. Flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Soda Y% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Nutmeg 1 tsp. Cinnamon Stir the shortening to soften. Gradually add sugar, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add egg and mix well. Sift flour, baking powder, seasonings, soda, and salt. Add to creamed mixture alternately with pumpkin. Beat after each addition until smooth. Fold in raisins, chocolate chips, nuts, and vanilla. Or — throw in everything and stir cubscout style. Drop on greased cookie sheet. Bake in 375° oven ten minTHE DAY AFTER HALLOWEEN utes. These cookies freeze well — if you have any left over. DIITKADVING CAME 1% c. Shortening 1% c. Sugar 2 eggs 2 ec. Flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Cinnamon 4 tsp. Soda 14 tsp. Cloves Y, tsp. Salt lc. Pumpkin (a little extra doesn't hurt) 1 ce. Raisins, nuts Stir shortening to soften. Add sugar, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add eggs. Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon, soda, salt, and cloves together 3 times; add_ to creamed mixture alternately with pumpkin. Add raisins and nuts. Bake in moderate oven (350°) 50-60 minutes. Serve with whipped cream, or plain, or frosted. Autumn Color After the Rains Eva Willes Wangsgaard Only fall rains could have brought this delight. In drouth years the leaves finish dusty and brown. Summer's thick foliage still vibrant and bright, Gleams like a prism or gems in a crown. Purple, maroon, red, through rose into gold, Contrast of fir and the deep green of pine, Beauty too vast for the senses to hold Spreads from the road to the far timberline. Bright as these pheasant cocks speeding for cover. Listen. Did you hear the flurry of quail? See that far peak where the dark cloudlets hover. A cold white replacement rides in on a gale. 763 Comparative Pn Ld British and American Measures Sandra M. Covey Relief Society Supervisor, Irish Mission In the kitchen, American and English are different languages. An important difference is illustrated below in the measurement of fluid ingredients: BRITISH AMERICAN 1 pint 20 fluid ozs. 1 pint 16 fluid ozs. 1 measuring cup 10 fluid ozs. 1 measuring cup 8 fluid ozs. 1 tablespoon % to 1 fluid oz. 1 tablespoon % fluid oz. Approx. The standard British way of measuring is by pound and not cup as in America. One pound is the term used in British recipes, and the women convert from that. It is possible to purchase a set of measuring spoons and cups of standard American sizes, but, alternatively, a graduated half-pint measure marked in liquid ounces can be used. Ekco Ltd., make a plastic jug which gives both British and American measurements. The American measuring spoon (tablespoon) holds exactly a quarter of an ounce of flour, and in American recipes, a spoonful means a level spoonful. The following equivalents may prove useful: SOLID MEASURES BRITISH AMERICAN 1 Ib. Butter or other fat 2 American cups 1 Ib. Flour 4 American cups 1 lb. Sugar 2 American cups 1 |b. Icing sugar 3 American cups 1 Ib. Brown sugar 2% American cups 1 Ib. Golden syrup 1 cup 1 Ib. Rice 2 cups 1 Ib. Dried fruit 2 cups 1 Ib. Ground meat 2 cups 1 Ib. Lentils 2 cups 1 Ib. Soft bread crumbs 4 cups TABLE AND TEASPOON % ounce flour 1 level teaspoon 1 ounce flour 1 heaping tablespoon 1 ounce sugar 1 level tablespoon % ounce butter 1 level tablespoon 1 ounce treacle—golden syrup 1 level tablespoon 1 ounce jam, jelly 1 level tablespoon Available ingredients may be different from those used in the States and may affect the finished product. 764 COMPARATIVE BRITISH AND AMERICAN MEASURES FLOUR Where American cake recipes ask for a special cake flour, use the best quality white flour available—314 ozs. For every 4 oz. Specified. Graham flour: 100% wholewheat flour. LEAVENING AGENTS When following an American recipe: Either use 1% times the amount of baking powder specified in the recipe few strokes of mixing, then bake immediately. SUGARS In British recipes use castor (granulated) sugar except when another type is specified. The coarse-grained sugar used in most British recipes weighs more by volume than the finer sugar which is common in America. BRITIS a] AMERICAN icing sugar confectioner's sugar use black treacle molasses can be bought in this country or maple syrup "golden syrup'"' can be used. Soft moist brown sugar brown sugar Golden syrup can usually be substituted for corn syrup, sorghum, etc. Yeast one cake of compressed yeast=% oz. Of fresh yeast, or the equivalent of this in dried yeast. Gelatine: 1 envelope =% oz. Ordinary gelatine. MISCELLANEOUS MIXING A recipe calling for 'two minutes beating" means by electrical mixer. By hand, 150 strokes are the equivalent of one minute in a mixer. SIZE OF TINS OR "PANS" These are standardized in America. Those in common use have the following measurements: Bread tin:—9 in. By 5 in. By 3 in. Deep square pan:—9 in. By 9 in. By 2 in. Deep oblong pan:—12 in. By 9 in. By 2 in. Deep round layer pan:—8 in. By 1% in. Deep or 9 in. By 2 in. Deep 8 oz. 1 cup ia No. 1 2 cups or 16 oz. AN SIZE No. 2 2% cups or 20 oz. AMERICAN COOKERY TERMS AND THEIR BRITISH EQUIVALENTS RRITISH AMERICAN o served with ice cream a la mode cheddar American cheese a scone biscuit roquefort blue cheese grill broil a soup, usually of fish, but may chowder be sweetcorn, mushroom, etc. Cornflour cornstarch a water biscuit cracker 765 Or sprinkle the specified amount over the mixture before the last OCTOBER 1964 BRITISH AMERICAN meited butter drawn butter semolina farina fine semolina farola there is no exact equivalent, but graham crackers they are rather like crispbread or unsweetened digestive biscuits mince grind hulled and coarsely ground corn grits or other meal okra, which is used to thicken soup gumbo small meringues kisses salty biscuit, covered with icing and marguerite nuts to grill or roast and serve all plank on a plank of wood an open tart pie fillet steak tenderloin large loin chop tenderloin of lamb rusk crumbs zwieback crumbs Recipes From Scotland Submitted by Kathleen S. Farnsworth Former President, Scottish Mission Relief Society CLOOTIE DUMPLING Phillippa Denard, President Dumfries Branch (Similar to Christmas Pudding, but is eaten the year round in Scotland.) (add 1 teaspoon baking powder per cup of plain flour) 4 oz. Shredded suet Y% cup shredded suet 1 teaspoon mixed spices 1 teaspoon ginger 1 teaspoon cinnamon 766 1 Ib. Self-rising flour 1 Ib. Mixed fruit (dried) 2 oz. Mixed peel (sugared) 4 cups self-rising flour 2 cups mixed fruit (dried) Y% cup mixed peel (sugared) RECIPES FROM SCOTLAND 1 Ib. Treacle (molasses) 1 cup treacle (molasses) 1 cup sugar (8 oz.) 1 cup sugar about 1 cup milk (10 oz.) 1 cup milk, plus 2 oz. Mix all dry ingredients. Then mix in treacle. Mix in enough milk to make a soft dough (about like biscuits). Have a large, clean, white cloth about 30" square. Flour the cloth well. Turn the dough onto the well-floured cloth. Pick up the four corners and tie the cloth with a piece of string. Leave enough slack in the cloth to allow the pudding to swell and expand. Place the cloth in a kettle of boiling water (have about 2" or 3" of water in kettle and be sure it is boiling). Boil 114 to 2 hours. Remove from kettle; place on a plate and fry it in the oven. Serve hot with custard sauce. Custard sauce is made like thin cream pie filling. This dumpling may also be sliced and served cold like fruit bread. SCOTCH BROTH Sheila Morgan Loch Lomondside Branch 1% Ibs. Leg-end mutton 1 turnip 2 quarts cold water 1 teaspoon finely chopped parsley 1 onion 1 tablespoon Scotch barley 1 leek salt and pepper 1 carrot Cut meat in small pieces. Add water, salt, and pepper and simmer gently. Remove scum from soup. Add vegetables and cook 1 hour. Strain, bring to boil, add parsley. Eat broth with oatcakes and butter. The meat and vegetables could be eaten separately, or all may be left together and eaten as good, thick soup or stew. LENTIL SOUP Sheila Morgan Soak a large ham bone in water for 24 hours. Simmer gently for 1 hour. Discard bone. Add grated carrots, thinly sliced leek and onion, lentils that have been soaked in cold water for several hours, salt, and pepper. Cook until thick and well done. Split peas may be substituted for lentils or lentils and peas used. SCOTCH SHORTBREAD Sheila Morgan f British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) Cream together: % ib. Fresh butter 5 oz. Icing sugar % c. Confectioners sugar Knead in the following: 5 oz. Cornflour 1 cup cornstarch 5 oz. Plain flour 1 cup plain flour Knead into Swiss roll tin. (Flatten to about 4%" thickness in a large cookie or roll pan.) Bake at 300° until golden brown, about 114 hours or less, cut in bars 11" x 4". 767 OCTOBER 1964 FRUIT BRAN LOAF Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) 3 oz. All-bran 1 cup, plus 2 tablespoons All-bran 8 oz. Soft brown sugar 1% cup soft brown sugar 10 fluid oz. Milk 1% cup milk 6 oz. Sultanas 1 cup raisins Soak above ingredients overnight 5 oz. Self-rising flour 5 heaping tbsp. Self-rising flour Next morning add flour. Put in greased floured loaf tin. Bake at 350° for 14% hours. Serve cold, buttered generously. This keeps well, improves after standing one day. CANADIAN TART Sheila Morgan British Measurements American Measurements (approximate) Line a 7" pie tin with pastry made as follows: 8 oz. Plain flour 2 cups plain flour 4 oz. Lard v cup lard 8 teaspoons cold water pinch salt 1 tablespoon sugar Work flour, lard, sugar, salt together until it resembles coarse crumbs. Add water and mix gently to stiff dough. Roll and line pan. Filling: beat 1 egg and add 1 cup sugar (8 oz.) 1 cup sugar butter the size of an egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 1 generous cup raisins and currants Mix well and put into the uncooked pastry. Bake at 350° for 1 hour, or until filling is firm to touch. To serve: cut in wedges. This tart is delicious served with vanilla ice cream. TRIFLE (Delicious Scottish Dessert) Irene Little, Secretary, Annan Branch Relief Society Use stale sponge cake or plain yellow or white. Split a layer of cake. Spread bottom half with raspberry or other jam. Replace top half of cake. Cut in slices and arrange in the bottom of a large bowl or deep dish. Pour a little fruit juice over cake. Dissolve 1 packet red or orange jelly (Jello), cool, pour on cake, set. Add a layer of fruit (mixed, mandarin oranges, etc.). Cover with the same kind of jelly (Jello) or a different variety. Continue until bowl is filled. Allow to set several hours. Cover top with whipped cream. Cover generously with coconut. To serve: spoon out into fruit dishes. Add more fruit, such as sliced peaches, pear halves, or sliced bananas. A layer of vanilla blancmange pudding added in the center of the trifle is delicious. Use your imagination. Add what you have and what you like, a "trifle" of this and a "trifle" of that. 768 Minced (ground) b d grated fe) eef in g Pan un r finely di i nstarch) x mashed Potatoes, our. Sa nice 8ravy. Serve ALMOND PASTE or FOR THE TOP OF UIT ¢ K 6 oz Castor) ly CUD groy almonds 8 oz 8round almonds eaten eg €Mon juice to flavor Mix Sugar and round blanched almonds. Add s and knead to 769 British Measurements 12 oz Sugar (6 oz. 'CINg and of lemon Juice to make g Pliable American Measurements (2pproximate) 1% Cups Confectioners Sugar e FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker Relief Society Activities Butte Stake (Montana), Dillon Ward Anniversary Program March 17, 1964 Children, seated in front: Christy Wright, Robin Wright, and Deanne Wright. Front row, seated, left to right: Peggy S. Oliphant; Verla R. Boetticher; Martha Childs; Isabella M. Hartwig; June W. Jones; Lucille B. Swartz; Glenna May G. Morrison. Standing, left to right: Elder Walter Swartz; Bishop Raymond Curtis; Elder Kenneth Morrison; Elder Larry Chaffin; Greta Chaffin; Sylvia Ricks; Jerene Curtis; Emma Nygren; Margaret G. Park; Fay B. Nelson; Lavina Smith; Bea Stokes; Lola Farnsworth; Verla Lovell. Harriet S. Palmer, President, Butte Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 17th we had our annual Relief Society anniversary party, which was a huge success. 'Pattern for Living Toward Ideal Womanhood' was the theme for the occasion. The dinner tables, which marked places for nearly one hundred, were resplendent in spring and Easter motifs. A large three-tiered birthday cake, baked and decorated by Delma Ruegseggar, was displayed on a large mirrored tray. Reminiscent of many springs past, the Singing Mothers chorus captivated the audience, wearing originally designed bonnets in styles of the past, present, and future. An original tribute honoring the visiting teachers was written and read by Ruth Graves. A skit 'History in the Making' was directed by Fay Nelson as the concluding number. It depicted the first organization of the Society. Lavina Smith provided background music." 770 All materia] Submitted for Publication in this department Should be sent through Stake anq Mission Relief Society Presidents. See regulations 80verning the Submitta] of materia] for " Otes From the Field" in the agazine for January 1958, Page 47, and in the Relief Society Handboop of 'nstructiong Ben Lomond Stake (Ogden, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert February 27, 1964 The choristey Wanda G. Chatelain Stands at the Tight on the first row; back of Sister Chatelain, at the end of the Second TOW, are Members of the Standing lighting effects Which Made the Concert live in the €yes and Minds of © audience were made Possible by LaMoine Wall, a Counselor jin the bishopric 771 OCTOBER 1964 Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska) Relief Society Achievement Day May 2, 1964 Second row, seated (back of the children), left to right: Beverly Nye, Magazine representative; Afton Hardy, Education Counselor; Evelyn Doty, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Wakefield, social science class leader; Blanche Rawlings, President; Delores Allred, Work Director Counselor. Sister Rawlings reports: '""The Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society sponsored an 'Achievement Day.' A program and the film 'The Awakening' were enjoyed in the morning, and a luncheon was served at noon. In the afternoon a fashion show was presented by the ward and branch Relief Societies. The sisters and their children modeled the clothing they had made during the winter. A fine display of bazaar items was shown. Approximately one hundred attended, and the success was most gratifying. Winter Quarters Stake is three years old, and there are six wards and six branches." Berlin Stake (Western Germany) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference March 22, 1964 Seated, fourth from the right in the front row: Mary R. Young, member of the General Board of Relief Society; second from Sister Young, on the left: Elsa Durr, President, Berlin Stake Relief Society. Ilse Thiede, organist, stands in the second row at the right; Jean A. Jensen, chorister, stands in the front row, fifth from the right; Sarah L. Johnson of the General Board of the Primary Association, front row, third from the right; Counselor Elise Buchereite, stands in the last row, second from the right; Frieda Pflugradt, SecretaryTreasurer, stands in the back row, first on the left. Sister Durr reports that this conference was a joyful and spiritually uplifting occasion. The German Relief Society sisters were delighted to meet Sister Young and to associate with her during the conference sessions. "The numbers presented by the Singing Mothers were beautifully renderd and well received. This was an outstanding accomplishment, considering the difficulties of distance and transportation." University West Stake (Utah) Honors Officers, Visiting Teachers, and Class Leaders at Luncheon, May 2, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Carrie M. Linford; Lila D. Harrison; Isabel D. McGregor; Camilla E. Kimball. Back row, standing, left to right: Evoline M. Riding; Agnes R. Frazer; Esther M. Tidwell; Edyth J. Romney, Secretary-Treasurer, University West Stake Relief Society; Annie M. Ballantyne, President; Sara M. Creer, First Counselor; Gyneth E. Hunter, Second Counselor. Sister Ballantyne reports: "The University West Stake Relief Society Board honored with a luncheon and program all the ward officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers of the stake on May 2, 1964. There were 240 in attendance, including special guests Camilla Eyring Kimball; Stake President Lamont Peterson and his Counselors Milton G. Thackeray and Merrill G. Wood; and Stake High Council Advisor to Relief Society Thomas B. Montgomery. At a meeting following the luncheon, Sister Kimball related some of her experiences visiting Relief Society organizations in different parts of the world and displayed some articles produced by them. "Of the visiting teachers present, six had served for fifty years or more: Carrie Merrill Linford, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Lila Dansie Harrison, North Thirteenth Ward, fifty-two years; Isabel Durham McGregor, West Twelfth Ward, sixty years; Evoline Mann Riding, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Agnes Rufi Frazer, West Eleventh Ward, fifty years; Esther Milner Tidwell, East Twelfth Ward, fifty-one years." 772 MANELININ OCTOBER 1964 Reno Stake (Nevada), Fallon Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting for Five Years February 7, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Jan Larsen, former president; stake officers: Alta Darney, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanche Richards, First Counselor; Louise L. Bell, President; Dorothea Folsom, Second Counselor; Golden Hyde, Bishop of Fallon Ward; ward officers: June Miller, First Counselor; Flora Miller, President; Jane Joedeman, Second Counselor; Thora Hendrix, Secretary-Treasurer; Wilmuth Crook, former president. Sister Bell reports: "The Reno Stake is proud of the Fallon Ward for achieving one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the last five years. The ward officers held a party honoring the visiting teachers. A luncheon was served, and the program 'A Light Shining' was presented. This one hundred per cent record was attained under three presidents." Utah Stake Honors Relief Society Secretary-Treasurers April 23, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: LaRee Adamson; Louise Cardall, Secretary-Treasurer, Utah Stake Relief Society; Ethel Bills. Back row, standing, left to right: Nadine Tuft; Norma Snow; Phyllis Jacobson; Geraldine Bastian; Afton Halverson. Nellie R. Mecham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "We had a lovely social honoring our secretary-treasurers. All of the sisters in the stake were invited and encouraged to bring a friend, including..»n-Latter-day Saint sisters. Effie Pinegar of the stake board wrote and read a. Uvely tribute to our secretary-treasurers, after which each one was presented with a beautiful hand-crocheted handkerchief. The Singing Mothers of the University Ward, under the direction of Ethelyn Mangum and Louise Wakefield, furnished music for the occasion. Two film strips: 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and 'The Awakening' were enjoyed. Between the film strips, Clair Johnson favored us with a lovely vocal solo. After the closing prayer, light refreshments were served." West Mexican Mission, Hermosillo Branch Relief Society Entertains at Farewell Dinner for President and Sister Turley, July 3, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Maclovia de Montoya, First Counselor; » -ancisca de Ruiz, Second Counselor Concepcion de Ibarra; Mercedes Vda. Dae Graham; Elisa de Guajardo; Santiaga de Gastelum, President; Ireta P. Turley, former Supervisor, West Mexican Mission Relief Society; Socorro de Aquilar; Abigail de Pineda, Secretary-Treasurer; Marie de Jesus de Navarro; Dolores de Sevallos. Back row, standing, left to right: Dolores de Ortega; Abel Montoya, President, Hermosillo Branch; Virgilio Guajardo; Roberto Gastelum and _ child; Harold E. Turley, former President, West Mexican Mission; Mauro Aquilar, Second Counselor; Carlos Pineda. The officers and teachers of the Hermosillo Branch Relief Society gave a farewell dinner for the outgoing mission president Harold E. Turley and his wife Ireta P. Turley. Following a short program, the Turleys were presented with a lovely hand-embroidered tablecloth made by the sisters of the Relief Society. It was given as a gift of appreciation and love to the Turleys for their help and kindness while serving in the mission. The new Mission Relief Society supervisor is Retha S. Turley. 774 North Idaho Falls Stake, Seventeenth Ward "Friendship Day"' April 1, 1964 Mary L. Wilding, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that the picture represents the center decoration of the hall and shows Donna Cramer displaying a picture which she has made. "April first will long be remembered in the hearts of the sisters of the Seventeenth Ward as they, their friends, and neighbors attended our 'Friendship Social.' 'April Showers' was an appropriate theme, as one entered the building from the falling rain outside. A small pink or yellow name tag in the shape of an umbrella was presented at the door to each sister. "Following the invocation by Bishop Lyman Monson, the Singing Mothers beautifully rendered the song 'April Showers.' The original words of the second verse by Laura A. Passey, President, Idaho Falls Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, were written to portray the spirit of Relief Society, and to invite the new sisters to join our happy throng. "The theme 'April Showers' was carried out in the decorations. In the center of the hall, suspended from the ceiling, was a large, twenty-foot wide and fifteen-foot high umbrella, trimmed with pink net and green and yellow plastic. Beneath the umbrella, were eight tables arranged in an octagon figure which displayed food demonstrations of potato croquettes, tomato fritters, apple fritters, applets, and pan-fried cookies. Samples were given throughout the evening to those present. The arts of hat making, sewing, cake decorating, and ribbon flowers were also demonstrated. "Encircling one half of the hall were tables representing visiting teaching, The Relief Society Magazine, the music department, social science, literature, theology, and arts and crafts, as well as home management and sewing. These tables were draped with green and yellow plastic. Each class leader developed her own ideas to represent her lesson department. The spirit of Relief Society was felt as one studied the table displays. There was a table display depicting the history of Relief Society, and a large decorated cake representing the birthday of the 122 years of the Relief Society organization. "Those present were served a lovely luncheon on small tables spaced along one side of the hall. These tables were decorated with white cloths and miniature umbrella centerpieces trimmed in pink, green, and yellow net. The Priesthood members were invited, and special invitations of small pink umbrellas were delivered to the sisters by the ward visiting teachers. There were over 125 who attended. Our objective was to shower the sisters with the opportunities Relief Society has to offer them. We feel this was accomplished by the comments and appreciation expressed by those present. The lovely evening, filled with renewed friendship and love. Concluded with the Singing Mothers presenting 'A Sister's Prayer.' " 776 wd THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 79, 80, 81, and 82) For First Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and that the Lord is bound when you do as he says. MISSIONARY CALLING During the month of March 1832, revelations were received calling three elders into missionary service. (Sections 79 and 80.) Sometimes missionary calls were to specific localities, as in the case of Jared Carter who was called to serve in the eastern countries [States], while others were given a more general area of proselyting. Brothers Stephen Burnett and Eden Smith were told to go to any of the directions of the compass and labor. (D&C 80: 1-3.) There are few callings in the Church that can compare with the missionary call. It provides opportunities to fulfill one's obligation to represent the Lord before the world; to build up Zion by increasing her citizens; to gain a better understanding of gospel fundamentals; and, at the same time, provides a foundation for a life of service at home. The missionary who tries to honor his missionary call finds that the Lord will sustain him in his labors if he will do his part. The obtaining of the spirit of one's calling will bring the powers of the Holy Ghost to one's assistance. President John Taylor calls our attention to the missionary's calling in the following passage:... It is for us to magnify our calling and honor our God in any and every position that we may be called upon to fill.... I would say that this Priesthood is not for the honor of man, not for his exaltation alone; but it is imparted to man in order that he may be made the medium of salvation to others.. _. Talking of the Elder, why he is a herald of salvation; he is a legate of the skies; he is commissioned of the great Jehovah to bear a message to the nations of the earth, and God has promised to 777 OCTOBER 1964 sustain him. He has always sustained His faithful Elders, and He always will (Journal of Discourses 24:35). ——- Mv While on his mission to the Eastern States, Elder Jared Carter was joined by his brother Simeon. These two missionaries labored for a period in Bolton, New York, on the shore of Lake George. While conducting meetings in that place, they met John Tanner, a wealthy resident of the community, who had invented a wheel chair to carry himself because of an infected leg which doctors had despaired of ever healing. He had been told that he would never again be able to walk. Mr. Tanner's presence at the meeting was prompted by his desire to confound the Mormon missionaries because of their belief in the ministry of angels and The Book of Mormon. Impressed by their message, however, he invited them to his home that he might learn more about their beliefs. Mr. Tanner confessed that he was converted to their teachings, but, because of his physical condition, he eould not be baptized. Whereupon, the following conversation ensued: Elder Jared Carter said to him, "You believe in the power of the Lord to heal your leg, do you not?" Tanner said he did most assuredly. Then Elder Carter said in a loud voice, placing his hand heavily on the shoulder of the sick man: "John Tanner, in the name of Jesus Christ I command you to rise and walk!" The ailing man got out of his chair, but hesitated to set his lame foot on the floor. "In the name of the Lord," said the Elder, "set down your other foot, and do not be afraid!" Tanner set it down. It was healed! 778 He could walk without any difficulty —as well, in fact as he had ever done. He strode up and down the room, praising God for the miracle (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 75, 1940, page 291). The three men walked to the lake and Mr. Tanner was baptized. Two years later he sold his possessions in New York, and moved to Kirtland, Ohio, to join the saints. Subsequently, Brother Tanner used much of his wealth to build up Zion. One of the well-known experiences of missionary success was the record made by Elder Wilford Woodruff in the British Mission in the year 1840. While laboring in Staffordshire on his birthday, he was directed by the Holy Ghost to go south. Obedient to this inspiration, Elder Woodruff traveled to Herefordshire where he met Mr. John Benbow, a wealthy farmer, who told him that over 600 people of the "United Brethren" faith might be taught. Elder Woodruff, with the material aid of Mr. Benbow, preached to these people and, in a short time, all but one of them accepted the true Church of Jesus Christ. A further example of the sustaining power of the Holy Ghost in his ministry came about in an interesting manner. At the request of a minister, the local constable attended a meeting to arrest Brother Woodruff for preaching the gospel. While the peace officer waited, at the request of the missionary, for the end of the meeting, he became convinced of the truth delivered there and requested baptism. Two clerks of the Church of England were also sent to one of the meetings, and both of them were baptized. (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Essentials in Church His- loucestershire, 1800 brought into the s E is to live Worthy to TeCeive the inSPiration of the Holy Ghost. One has learned the 80Spel, the Lord will bring knows the truth of the Bospel, he Will not teach living Prophets.; course, © Persons jt Was impossible to 1 Perfect organization of OCTOBER 1964 there were not enough to form these different quorums, the Elders presided, because they held the Melchizedek Priesthood. The Lord, however, had a perfect organization for His Church, and He gave it unto them when they were ready to receive it (Conference Report, November 1901, page 75). An important truth is given in verse 2 of Section 81 regarding the Presidency of the Church. Brother Williams was told that Joseph Smith, the President, had received the keys of the kingdom of God and that these powers would reside in the Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood. In August 1830, the Lord referred to the time, when, in June of the preceding year, Peter, James and John, had conferred these keys and a dispensation of the gospel for the last time. (D&C 27:12- 13.) Briefly, the keys thus restored, together with those later conferred, gave the rights, privileges, and powers necessary to carry out all of the functions of the Priesthood upon the earth. In Section 81, Brother Williams was informed that he was to counsel with the Prophet. The counselors were not to receive revelation for the Church, but they were entitled to inspiration that they might act in unison with the President on all matters which came before them. Emphasis is given in the revelation of the need for prayer to receive the full blessings of leadership. (Verse 3.) In addition to his Presidency duties, which would also involve helping the weak and those in need (verse 5), Brother Williams was told that he should proclaim the gospel, and then he would be able to do the greatest good for his fellow 780 men and also for the glory of God. (Verse 4). Faithful performance of Brother Williams' calling, as is true of all Latter-day Saints, would give him a crown of eternal life in the Father's mansions. (Verse 6.) Regardless of the office held in the kingdom, there is need for each member of the Church to do missionary work. The month before Section 82 was received, the Prophet Joseph Smith was counseled to organize the saints in Zion for their temporal benefit. (D&C 78:3-4.) Shortly after arriving at Independence, Missouri, a_ general council of the Church was convened, at which time the Prophet was sustained as the President of the High Priesthood to which office he was ordained on the 25th of January, 1832. During an intermission of the council, a difference between Bishop Edward Partridge and Sidney Rigdon was settled, and then the revelation recorded in Section 82 was received. The Lord recognized the settlement of this difference between the brethren and said that as they had forgiven each other, so also he would forgive them. (Ibid., 82:1.) Since all mankind will be judged by the law to which they are responsible on the earth, men will vary in their responsibility to account for the deeds done in the body. For of him unto whom much is given much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation (D&C 82:3). The principle that greater light and understanding bring greater responsibility, should appeal to everyone as a just principle. For example, if a person does not have an opportunity to hear the fulness of the gospel, then he should not be held to that law. It is also true that if one does have the opportunity to know the commandments of that law, and does not live them, then he should lose the blessings of living that law. Although one may learn the letter of the law, some may claim that they do not understand the necessity of complying with the commandment. What of them? Elder James E. Talmage has this informative answer:... Such may ask: Are men to suffer penalty in the hereafter because they cannot understand what is required of them in mortality? The degree of their culpability is to be determined by the fundamental cause of their ineptitude in matters spiritual. Failure to comprehend may be due to bias or to lack of desire to know.... Are you unable to realize that baptism is essential to salvation? Perhaps the cause lies in the fact that you have never developed the essential condition of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; or, perchance, you have never repented of your sins. Faith and repentance, as the Scriptures aver, are prerequisites to effective baptism; and it is as unreasonable to expect a faithless unrepentant sinner to comprehend the essentiality of baptism as to expect one untrained in the rudiments of arithmetic to understand algebra. Wilful ignorance of Gospel requirements is sin. Man is untrue to his Divine lineage and birthright of reason when he turns away from the truth, or deliberately chooses to walk in darkness while the illumined path is open to his tread. Positive rejection of the truth is even graver than passive inattention or neglect. Yet to LESSON DEPARTMENT every one is given the right of choice and the power of agency, with the certainty of his meeting the natural and inevitable consequence (Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 ed., pp. 270-271). Latter-day Saints are more responsible before the Lord because they are under covenant by baptism, by temple ordinances, as well as by the enlightenment of the Holy Ghost. 'What I say unto one I say unto all" is a truth which has application many times in these revelations. Although a truth may be spoken to one or several people, usually it is applicable to the many. It is just as true today as in 1832 that the adversary is gaining ground and his darkness reigneth to a great degree upon the earth. (D&C 82:5.) This condition brings about this warning to the world: And the anger of God _ kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and none doeth good, for all have gone out of the way (Verse 6). To the brethren in Missouri (and to all members of the Church) the Lord counseled them to sin no more, and "unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return" (D&C 82:7). After quoting Ezekiel, chapter 18, verse 24, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary gives this explanation:... God forgives the repentant sinner so completely that "his transgressions shall not be mentioned unto him'; on the other hand, the righteous, who turns away from righteousness, cannot hope that his former life will save him. The principle works both ways, and is, therefore, eminently just (page 490). 781 OCTOBER 1964 aep As a preface to instructions regarding the brethren's mission to Missouri to manage the affairs of the poor under the order of Enoch in Kirtland, as well as Zion, the Lord set forth this truth which is similar to another oft-quoted one. (See D&C 130:20-21.) I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D&C 82:10). The meaning of this passage is well known. The Lord operates the universe, his Church, and the plan of salvation, by law. When the law is observed, the blessing of that law follows. In the operation of the law of consecration, it was intended that each person should manage his stewardship so that not only his family would profit but that the Lord's storehouse would be filled to meet every need, "Every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God" (Verse 19). If the brethren privileged to live this law of stewardship were to break their covenants, they "shall be dealt with according to the laws of my Church and shall be delivered over to the buffeting of Satan until the day of redemption" (Verse 21). The brethren were also advised "and this is wisdom, make unto yourselves friends with the mammon of unrighteousness and they will not destroy you. Leave judgment alone with me for it is mine and I will repay" (Verses 22-23). The Saints were to treat their nonmember friends with kindness, to live at peace with them, but 782 never take to their bosoms principles of unrighteousness. The gospel teaches that one should refrain from sinning, and a way to accomplish this is to keep from the areas of temptation. Tolerance does not mean acceptance of principles that are contrary to the Lord's way of happiness. One can be friendly with those who do not accept Latter-day Saint standards of conduct, but tolerance is not indulgence. Four sections of the Doctrine and Covenants have made up this lesson. We have learned that the Lord gave instructions on missionary work that are applicable today; that the faithful missionary is promised the Holy Ghost to direct him in his labors: and that the powers of the Priesthood are available to the diligent. Regardless of position in the Church, no one is exempt from missionary responsibility. Finally, we learned that the powers of darkness are present on the earth and diligence in keeping the commandments is necessary. Tolerance for people not of our faith was enjoined, but tolerance does not mean acceptance of their ideas and practices which are incompatible with the covenants which the Latter-day Saint has made with God. OUESTIONS FOR NISCLISSION ' t 1. What are the benefits that can come through missionary service? 2. Tell of the progress of missionary work in England in 1840 as an example of the fulfillment of Section 79:3. 3. What is the obligation of the missionary (and the teacher in the Church) to teach what the Lord has revealed? 4. What is meant by the keys of the kingdom and whc has the use of them? LESSON DEPARTMENT Who receives the benefit of their use? 5. Explain what is meant by the scripture "unto whom much is given much is required." VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 60 — "'... That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea, Even an Hundred Fold..." (D&C 82:18). For First Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded. One of the misfortunes in life is the tendency of all of us to underestimate the talents and abilities with which we have been blessed. Most of us never realize nor develop more than a fraction of our potentialities. The reason this is true, is that we fail to use and improve upon the talents with which we have been blessed. Utilizing our talents not only develops them, but also lays the foundation for the growth of additional talents. One of the great truths of life is that as we utilize, develop, and magnify our abilities, we gain the power and the strength to move on to higher and more important accomplishments. This thought from Ralph Waldo Emerson has been frequently emphasized as a truism, that as we continue in the performance of any task that task becomes easier, not because its nature has changed, but because our ability to perform it has improved. In other words, there is no doubt about the truthfulness of the statement that "practice makes perfect." The reality and accuracy of this message from the Doctrine and Covenants, that as we improve upon our talents we gain additional talents, was realistically demonstrated in the personal experience of a certain individual. This individual had received a beautiful patriarchal — blessing. Among other things, this blessing stipulated that she possessed talents which she had not adequately developed. 783 OCTOBER 1964 As the years Passed the only Slamoroys areas, such 48 IN music thing this individual] Could ye. Or in the arts. But all o us, b Member g Out her blessing Was Practice, can imp ve our talents his Statement, ang she became of self-expression, of being better Increasing] More worried about listeners, of having ore under. Er failure to €velop her talents, Standing hearts, of being better nl TaCt, sghie came Convinced Wives, hers and neighbors, a actual] » She a blesseq and of eing ett rh emakers. With very few talents, © can, if €verthelesg » aS ig impr ve o Character. Mpro urch r ' Pportunities the good Seeing 1 ourselves and others; and in discoy ring beauty In the urch ¢ apa ae, a The Conmonplace hings of life. Charged each of files respongj. Through More pl] asant attitudes ities to the best of her ability, a ~ re d = ° ara and She found th t the accomplish. Cheer et A fod. Ment of each new task Made her ath, to ica eg = vena next 48signment easier, Almost " & ll have: abe déiea anknowin = found she had ut w. Osoever hath not from Sveloped ta "eli Self-expres him shalj be taken awa even that Sion, leadership, Organizational he hath" (Matt, 13. 12) ae ability, and many others she had words fro ae east "Maud Not realized She Possessed. Muller" by J P This igs the type of ¢ allenge Open to al] of us, n Greenleaf Whittier, are often It Ough we May not realize it, €en blessed ue or n, the sad dest are these, ght have With Many talents, been." » Ss °PPortunities for €rvice come As we template the j porOur Way we hould 8Tasp each One ance of q lopin nd multiply. Willingly and nth Slastically and ng our talents, let Ss Member Perform each to the of our hat our lives Stretch into eter ability We do so we will find nity, and th Only things we can Ourselve €veloping additional take with ys are our talent, and A ilities ) ~ Promised jn the, llities ang € characters we Octrine C ts, our tal. Ave built throu the applicaents will mul Ply, "even a hun tions and experiences of his life red fold.' Certainly It b It is trye that not all of ys have | great talents; IN some of the More eS << * hewn Hee — um nin Zion Canyon National Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Remember In times of trouble The enduring strength of stone, The stubborn life grasp of the cliff tree Rooted in rock, The red grandeur of eternal canyon walls, The soothing song of the perpetual river, And even, too, the fragile fern, the maidenhair, And how it beautifies the crevice where it grows. And remember, Over all humanity, the world, the clouds God curves the infinity of his skies. 785 Park Willard Luce LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature Elder Bruce B. Clark Lesson 4 — Poetry of Faith in God and Man — Part Il (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 71-90) For Third Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To show further how spiritual values and faith in God and man have been expressed through poetry. Last month we examined several poems by William Wordsworth as evidences of the poets' traditional affirmation of spiritual values and traditional faith in God and man. This month we turn to another English poet, Robert Browning (1812-1889), to explore further the poetry of faith. Browning was equal io Wordsworth as an affirmer of lofty ideals, and even greater as a poet —possibly the greatest English poet since Milton. His brilliant dramatic monologues, dramatic soliloquies, and psychological soul-studies probe as meaningfully into human personality and character as any poems ever written; and his long masterpiece, The Ring and the Book, is one oi the great poems of the world. Browning's writing is complex and difficult, but wonderfully rewarding. The words "robust optimist" have so often been used to describe Browning that they now seem almost part of his name. 786 Fortunately, they fit this great man whose total affirmation of life both here and hereafter is so vigorous that it is attractive even to readers who may not share it. Strangely, his most widely known statement of optimism, '"God's in his Heaven—All's right with the world," spoken by a naive little girl in his drama Pippa Passes, is an extreme view that Browning recognized as unrealistic. Although Browning knew that there is much wrong with man's present world, he firmly believed that God is in heaven ultimately controlling the universe and that the potentiality of man in this life is great and the confidence with which he can lcok forward to life beyond death is equally great. Occasionally Browning speaks of himself and his views, as in the "Epilogue to Asolando" when he describes himself as One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, Never doubted clouds would break, Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better, Sleep to wake. At other times Browning speaks his views not directly but through the words of one of his characters, as in the great soul-study "Saul" where the redemptive power of music is explored, or in "Fra Lippo Lippi' when the worldly but exuberantly likeable Fra Lippo says, This world's no blot for us, Nor blank; it means intensely, and means good. And earlier says, referring to his purpose in painting, If you get simple beauty and naught else, You get about the best thing God invents. But, even more vividly than when Browning speaks explicitly through himself or through his characters, he ironically communicates his views to us indirectly and upside-down through his unattractive characters. In fact, the bulk that we know about Browning's specific views we infer in this manner. We sense his admiration for sincerity and honesty and simple goodness because the proud, jealous Duke of Ferrara in "My Last Duchess" is so arrogantly materialistic, and because the dying Bishop in Saint Praxed's Church and the soliloquizing monk in the Spanish Cloister are so sensually worldly and (the latter at least) so hypocritically LESSON DEPARTMENT self-righteous. We know that Browning believes man has the responsibility and opportunity, in this life, to work towards his own eternal salvation because the despicable Johannes Agricola (see "Johannes Agricola in Meditation") and the degenerate Caliban (see "Caliban Upon Setebos') believe otherwise. And these are only a few of many similar poems by Browning. Out of and through all his poems Browning emerges not only as a great poet but as the most vigorously optimistic writer of his age, with an unwavering faith in God and immortality and a great confidence in man. We now turn more fully to two poems "__A Grammarian's Funeral" and "An Epistle of Karshish"— to explore some of the details of Browning's faith. A Grammarian's Funeral. We especially feel Browning's vigorous affirmation of life in the several poems, including "A Grammarian's Funeral," that develop his doctrine of "success in failure," the '"'philosophy of the imperfect" —that man should direct all his energy toward achieving high goals, even impossibly high goals, for to set low goals and achieve them is to fail, whereas to set high goals and strive unceasingly toward them is to succeed, even though the goals may not be fully reached. Browning would on this point agree with the pathetic Andrea del Sarto (in his poem of that title), who broodingly acknowledges that "a man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?" He hated all forms of avoidable mediocrity and half-effort. For him, anything 787 OCTOBER 1964 worth doing was worth doing well, with complete energy and devotion. Part of Browning's purpose in "'A Grammarians Funeral" is to catch the inexhaustible thirst for knowledge of the scholars of the early Renaissance. Although the term "grammarian" may suggest otherwise, the dead grammarian is a learned scholar, loved and honored by his disciples; and he is being carried to the top of a lofty mountain for burial at sunrise. The speaker of the poem is a disciple especially devoted to the dead grammarian, and he is talking to the other pallbearers as he leads them to the burial spot. In the first section of 28 lines the speaker points out, as the bearers climb the mountain, that the mountain peak is the "appropriate' spot for burial because it is lofty as the scholar in learning was also lofty. "Our low life was the level's and the night's." says the disciple. ""He's for the morning." In the second section, lines 29 to 72, the speaker points out how his master spent the years of his youth and young manhood searching, searching—unknown, unrecognized, withdrawn from life in a total dedication to learning. "Long he lived nameless" as he "left play for work" yearning "let me know all!" And in the long closing section, lines 73 to 148, the total search to know all continues. Some who know him criticize the grammarian for not living while he has a chance. "Time escapes; live now or never!" they say. But he answers, "What's time? Leave Now for dogs and apes! Man has For- 788 ever." And back to his books he goes, physically half dead, intellectually even more dedicated. Now, years later, he is dead, and his disciples are carrying his body to the burial spot. Did he learn all? No, the goal was impossibly high. He learned much, but not all. Nevertheless, in the devoted pursuit of a high goal that he could not quite reach he succeeded more than lesser people who set and achieve little goals. Says his disciple, If we draw a circle premature, Heedless of far gain, Greedy for quick returns of profit, sure Bad is our bargain! A little later he further explains: That low man seeks a little thing to do, Sees it and does it; This high man, with a great thing to pursue, Dies ere he knows it. That low man goes on adding one to one, His hundred's soon hit; This high man, aiming at a million, Misses an unit. That, has the world here—should he need the next, Let the world mind him! This, throws himself on God, and unperplexed Seeking shall find him. Thus "trusting death"—that is, having confidence in the eternal progression possible through immortality—the grammarian accepts 'earth's failure" as the price of "heaven's success." And his disciples honor him by burying him on the mountain peak, for "lofty designs must close in like effects." Here's the top-peak; the multitude below Live, for they can, there; This man decided not to Live but Know— Bury this man there? Here—here's his place, where meteors shoot, clouds form, Lightnings are loosened, Stars come and go! The problem for the modern reader of this poem is in deciding not to side with the grammarian's critics who felt that he was wasting his time in a grubby search for knowledge, that he would have been wiser to live life to the fullest as Browning advocated in other poems. But Browning's point is that whatever one chooses to do should be done with enersy and enthusiasm. And devotion. Pillowy, "lukewarm," easy, directionless, undisciplined mediocrity was as distasteful to Browning as St. John in the Book of Revelation recorded it as being to Jesus I (Revelation 3:15 -16 reads: "I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot. I would thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will Spue thee out of my mouth."') An Epistle of Karshish. Browning's long and complex poem called "An Epistle, Containing the Strange Medical Experience of Karshish, the Arab Physician" is perhaps the Most successful effort in the world's poetry to recreate the tremendous impact of Christ's mission upon an ancient non-believer who IS so overwhelmed by it all that in bafflement he almost believes. The poem is not history and should not be read as history. It is an art creation, attempting to capLESSON DEPARTM ENT ture the spirit rather than merely the factual details of how Christ's life and message must have affected those who only half knew and understood it. Karshish and Abib are imaginary characters. The Epistle purfrom Bethany in Judea by the traveling scholar-physician Karshish to his master, Abib. The first two sections, through line 61, are merely introductory as Karshish tells Abib of his trayels to a number of places, different people and things he has seen, and various medicines he has used in the treatment of epilepsy and other sicknesses. The reader wil] almost certainly find these lines tedious and not very meaningful, as Browning intended. Then Karshish, almost as an afterthought, Says, "Yet stay." Something is on his mind that he wants to talk about. Before the reader moves further in the poem he should study the account in John 11:1-44 of Christ's raising of Lazarus from the dead, for it is about Lazarus that Karshish wishes to talk. He has met Lazarus and been puzzled by him. "The man had something in the look of him," says Karshish in line 69, something that Karshish cannot forget, Lazarus, having felt the power of Christ, is a man incapable of doubt. And first—the man's own firm conviction rests That he was dead (in fact they buried him) —That he was dead and then restored to life By a Nazarene Physician of his tribe: —'Sayeth, the same bade "Rise," and he did rise. (lines 97-101) 789 OCTOBER 1964 Karshish is both intrigued and baffled by Lazarus. Karshish does not himself know Christ—is, in fact, not even of the Jewish faith. And he does not really believe Lazarus. Yet he cannot fully doubt him. Lazarus has the unshakeable faith, quiet yet absolute, of one who simply knows. "This grown man eyes the world now like a child" (line 117.) His conviction needs no arguing to support it. He serenely knows, and Karshish, a non-believer, is deeply moved by the whole experience. And so the "epistle" goes on, line after line. Often an expression comes into Lazarus's face '"'as if he saw again and heard again his sage that bade him 'Rise' and he did rise," says Karshish. Again and again Karshish starts to end the letter to Abib, and then goes on talking about Lazarus, unable to dismiss the incident from his thoughts. One might suppose Lazarus to be a madman or a fanatic, says Karshish, but it is not so—the man is "harmless as a lamb" (line 232). Patiently, steadfastly, unwaveringly he waits for the death that will take him back to his Master. The whole thing is incomprehensible to Karshish. In the section beginning with line 243 Karshish says to Abib, you may wonder why I have not sought out '"'the Nazarene who wrought this cure" to learn for myself all about him. But I cannot, Karshish explains, for he was killed by a mob of people because he was accused of wizardry and then failed to stop an earthquake. (Obviously Karshish is all confused about the facts of 790 Christ's death, just as a person in Christ's time might well have been confused when getting the information through hearsay, as Karshish did. Browning makes the '"epistle" all the more realistic by this brilliant handling of the probability of confusion.) In the passage beginning with line 267 Karshish, now almost overcome by what he is saying, comments that Lazarus believes his healer was actually God: This man so cured regards the curer, then, As—God forgive me! Who but God himself, Creator and sustainer of the world, That came and dwelt in flesh on it awhile! —Sayeth that such an one was born and lived, Taught, healed the sick, broke bread at his own house, Then died, with Lazarus by, for aught I know. Of course this simply could not be, says Karshish, and asks Abib's "pardon for this long and tedious" letter (line 283). I have talked much too long about the whole thing, he says—and then goes on talking longer about it. So tremendously has he been impressed that, try as he will, he cannot cast it from his mind. The thought that finally overwhelms him most of all, in the brief closing passage of the poem, is the magnificent concept of God as a being of Love as well as of Power: The very God! Think, Abib; dost thou think? So, the All-Great, were the AllLoving too— So, through the thunder comes a human voice Saying, "O heart I made, a heart beats here! Face, my hands fashioned, see it in myself!' And not only a being of love, but also a being, divinely perfected, in the glorified form of man himself. The whole thing is utterly beyond comprehension for Karshish, but also beyond dismissal. He cannot believe, yet he cannot not believe. And so brilliant is Browning's handling of the whole poem that the reader is fully caught up in the wonder of it all, just as Karshish was. Christ, the Creator and Redeemer of the world, and mankind's loving Elder Brother! Note to Class Leader The material on Browning given here is taken from pp. 71-90 of the Relief Society literature text. In addition to this interpretive material, the text contains a more extended discussion of Browning and a full print (with explanatory notes) of "A Grammarian's Funeral" and "An Epis'le of Karshish," which should be used in the wards and branches for this month's lesson. If these poems by Browning seem too complex for use in some Relief Society groups, the literature text in this section on "Faith in God and Man" also contains several shorter poems, LESSON DEPARTMENT with interpretive discussions. These are intended as supplementary, enrichment selections and may be used as desired to meet the special needs of wards and branches for discussion groups in the homes. They are excellent selections for brief, stimulating analysis. The poems are as follows: "The Lamb" by William Blake, "I Never Saw a Moor" by Emily Dickinson, "Little Jesus" by Frances Thompson, "The Windhover" and '"God's Grandeur" by Gerald Manley Hopkins, and "Still Falls the Rain" by Edith Sitwell. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. Is it really better, as Browning says, to set difficult high goals and strive towards them even though they may not be fully attained than to set easy low goals and attain them? Why? 2. Discuss the effectiveness of the short lines in "A Grammarian's Funeral." 3. How successful is Browning in "An Epistle of Karshish" in taking you back two thousand years to the time when Jesus walked in person on the earth, unknown and unrecognized? 4. Why does Karshish find it more difficult and more wonderful to think of God as a Being of love than just a Being of great power? 5. Why does Karshish's confusion about the true nature of Christ's death make Browning's poem even more realistic than if Karshish had all the details correct? 791 = SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballii Lesson 17 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations —Continued For Fourth Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations. ZION is built of perfected family circles. All devices, divine and human, for man's betterment, to be effective, must recognize the training that comes out of the home (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 80). FAMILY: A SACRED COMMISSION The family is a sacred institution ordained of God. It insures his spirit children intimate, stimulating, and loving environment for their development during the most impressionable period of their lives on earth. According to the _ scriptures, marriage was intended for all men and women, it being necessary in order for them to fulfill the purpose of their creation. 'Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord" (I Cor. 11:11). And in Mark 10:7-9 we read, "For this cause [marriage] shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; And they twain. Shall be one flesh...." In the instructions 792 to the first couple, the Creator made clear the importance of children in his plan (''multiply and replenish the earth'') and the responsibility of parenthood was accepted. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters" (P of GP, Moses 5:12). Children become members of the Church and the Church is judged by the way the members reflect its teachings. The kind of member the child becomes depends largely upon the family environment in which the child develops his basic attitudes toward life and its purpose. The duty and obligation of parenthood is to teach the children correct principles and to set the proper example before them. Thus knowing right from wrong, it is the responsibility of each person to make his own decision. PERFECTION IN FAMILY LIVING With our accumulated knowledge of and experience in family living, together with the divine guidance and counsel we have received, and with the possibility of personal revelation to the Priesthood holder for the welfare of his family, we should be producing family units that are near perfection. According to this, if our families are functioning as they should, it would be possible for us to eliminate most of the social ills known to family life. We should be free of such problems as crime, delinquency, divorce, desertion, and conflict in general. There has never been more help available for the family organization than there is today. What do the results show in your home, in your ward and stake? Let us examine our own homes first, not in relation to the big things just mentioned, but in relation to the small things that may, eventually, lead to larger and more serious problems. Within your own home is there dishonesty, deception, or a lack of forthrightness in the dealings among the family members? 'To what extent is selfishness apparent in the family interaction? Does the true spirit of love dominate where the personal concern for other family members comes _ before self? Does anger dictate your discipline measures? Is there unbridled criticism of one another? You see, these things and many other happenings of the home become a part of the child that goes forth from that home, and all the things he experiences each day become a part of him for the moment and for the years to come. Let each one check carefully the daily family experiences and evaluate them in terms of the best information or knowledge and LESSON DEPARTMENT practice available to him. Are we developing young men and young women in our homes who will be able to make virtuous decisions? Are we justifying the availability of divine guidance and counsel in the performance of our duties as parents? Divine inspiration is as available to the Priesthood bearer in the home performing his duties as the leader of his family, as it is to the Priesthood bearer in the operation of any other office or calling in the Church. Because of the importance of the family in its influence on the children as members of the Church, and society in general, the power and influence of the divine is, and always has been, within easy access to those who inquire and are worthy to receive this influence. It is living the gospel that brings the blessings of heaven. OPERATION OF FAMIL A JOINT PROJ By way of emphasis may we again call attention to the fact that the man is not without the woman in the sight of God, and that the fulness of the Priesthood is possible only through the sealing ordinance of a temple marriage. In such a marriage "they twain shall be one flesh." This being the case, it is logical to conclude that there is equal responsibility for the success of the family unit. The marriage we speak of is eternal, and the total experience of this life has a direct bearing on the nature of the eternal relationship. DISTINCTIVE CALLINGS In the operation of the family unit there should be no competi- 793 OCTOBER 1964 tion between husband and wife for leadership. They have distinctive callings and unique qualifications, the use of which complement each other in carrying out the duties of a Latter-day Saint home. In making a living the father may be fully responsible for the income of the family, but the frugality of the mother and her wisdom in expenditures make possible the family economic wellbeing on the income of the father. Biologically, the father and mother make distinctive contributions to each child, but the nurture of the developing but unborn baby produces a closeness between mother and child that a father may never know. Yet in the stability and security the father provides, including the counseling and guidance of the baby to maturity, the father can and should supply a need that a mother by the very nature of her calling may never produce. In general, the father brings the family in touch with the world outside the home, preparing each member for the realities of the contacts with society, while the mother creates within her home a clean, wholesome place of security. Not alone through purchasing power, but by her inventiveness and creativeness she fashions a home that has a uniqueness all her own. Truly, to her children there is no place like home. But, here, as in other sit 1- ations, it is a joint venture inzsmuch as father supplies che material essentials and mother fashions these things into their home. The sum total of the joint ef- 794 forts of father and mother in the home is to produce an environment where each tiny tot can find ample stimulation for continual growth and development in body, mind, and spirit. The teachings, illustrated by the living examples of all members of the family, particularly the father and mother, provide a major influence in shaping the total behavior of the new baby. The real test of character is found in the ability of the grown child to make decisions when away on his own that are in harmony with the values taught in his home training. What values do you want the children to have? How sacred are the values you have observed? Are they in harmony with the design of the Creator? Can they produce the best results in the life of your child? ' THE HOME SHOULD DO In considering the values of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in recognizing that values remain as values in the minds of people only as organized effort is brought to bear on teaching and applying these values to life situations, it seems that the following are some of the very important things that the home must do. It must develop: 1. A religious atmosphere. Religion is our way of life. In it there must be confidence in the reality of God and his Son Jesus Christ. This is the base of our belief. With the help of the Holy Ghost every child eight years of age can have this witness. (D&C 68:25.) Prayer is the medium of contact with God. The home experi- ence filled with humility and faith provides an atmosphere conducive to the development of a favorable attitude toward prayer. Each child should petition divine help in the solution of daily problems. The stimulation of association with the spiritual side of life should be just as natural and regular as physical and intellectual growth and development. Parents have the obligation to teach and train their children in the observance of family prayer, in the payment of tithing, the observance of the Word of Wisdom and other fundamental virtues. 9. Respect for law and order. Free agency is the right of intelligent choice, the right of decision. Freedom means the privilege to act within the prescribed limits of society. In its true meaning freedom does not allow one person's freedom to infringe upon the rights or freedom of another person. Knowing the law and living within the limits set, is the essence of freedom. The first contact with law and order comes in the family situation. Rules of conduct clearly defined and administered with wisdom in the home develop within each child his attitude toward law and order in his community, nation, and the kingdom of God. The home experience can develop within the child an attitude, either positive or negative, towar' every venture in life. From the positive point of view much can be done here to establish a proper evaluation of self. With thoughtful guidance, confidence can be LESSON DEPARTMENT developed in the child's ability to solve his own problems and make his own decisions. The following points may be helpful in building confidence that may result in a successful life: (1) Help the child to understand the true meaning of discipline, to give proper recognition to authority, and to recognize the place and importance of obedience and conformity. (2) Make sure that the child knows the meaning and value of work. There is no substitute for hard work in any success formula. Of equal value in this formula is a recognition of the importance of organization of one's time, and the recognition of one's ability in relation to effort put forth. (3) Create in the child a never-ending thirst for knowledge, together with a systematic and_ related arrangement of facts toward one's objective. (4) Help the child develop an enthusiasm for life, his work, and for his religious convictions. (5) Above all, develop within the child humility with a respect for and an appreciation of God in his life. In brief, a child is 4 product of his home life more than of any other single influence. The development of character comes from the performance of daily tasks in light of the values that provide the basis of one's philosophy of The most important single thing parents do in the process of training children is living the example that harmonizes with the values being taught. 1. What evidence can be found in modern scripture that marriage is ordained of God? 795 OCTOBER 1964 2. Are parents equally responsible REFERENCES for the success of their family? Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 3. Does the Priesthood in the home 8, 121, 131, 132. Increase the parental responsibility? Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Explain. Church Government, Chapters 7, 8, 9. 4. What is the real test of character? Widtsoe, John A: Discourses of 5. How important is the home in' Brigham Young, Chapter XVII. The development of citizenship? 6. What are the essentials of a success formula? Pot of View Is /mportant Leona Fetzer Wintch HEN we are tired, it is often because we are tired of something, not from the work we are doing. Disorder and confusion always bring frustrations and fatigue. The core of weariness might even stem from boredom. These doldrums are usually self-inflicted. The world is full of exciting, creative things to do, if we will only look up and forward. Each one must map out his own solution to overcome the tendency to fatigue by working systematically. We can all profit by routinizing many household tasks so that they are mechanically performed; some of these are immediate clearing of dishes, routine morning bedmaking and brushing up of rooms. Energies can then be reserved for more meaningful and enjoyable activities, such as learning a new skill or helping the children read. Being well-organized, mechanizing routine tasks, taking short, but more frequent vacations, and finding new, creative work will give the mother of the home a more happy, healthful outlook which will be reflected in everyone around her. Best of all, she will be able to accomplish more and be less tired. THe flesh pots of yesterday were dearer to Lot's wife than the beauty of today or the adventure of tomorrow. For all of us, looking at the past should be a sometime thing; the past should never become a dwelling place. It is well to keep distant goals in view to give us the vision without which we perish, but the duty of this day, this hour, and even this moment is our only true concern. This moment, this hour, and even this day can bristle with glad excitement if we listen for the magic in a loved one's voice, or see the pink and purple in the desert sage. The well of living water at which we drink is not yesterday's stagnant pool, nor tomorrow's anticipation. It is today's sweet flow that quenches human thirst. If we sing with our hearts, no rankling ashes of regret can chain us to Lot's wife and her pillar of salt. 796 distorted, and a Passing breeze ruffling the Water m lur it completly hat I ¢ see of others Is lik he Teflection, distorteq. Cannot tel] another' Innermost thoughts and feelings, T cannot tell what he Teally js like, ords and actions are Not plain €nough, Since this lS So, how can Judge another? God has told me to deal in forgiy to live With al] my life; Only one aWay from, 'T at person js Myself. MCE that js 80, I had bett T make myself Into the kind of son I wil] enjo I had etter Improye Myself ever day, for the bette; I behave, the easier I will live with myself Thad b tter practice the habit of looking at life with 4 smile, not a frown, the Only person | AVE to live With al] my life, But the kind of Person ] am wil] influence the kind of tends aw to myself 0, improving Prove my ¢ ances of having Wonderfy] Persons as friends, Myself will im. "8 a4 plain box of little Worth and ter coat of lacquer, In the end | nd becomes a thi lS more lacquer than the Cauty and high Price, Coat after coat to my Character Am | using skil] and Tejecting the bad? €auty of Character j, Something we al] esire, along with the peace and joy that aCcompany it. T should like ¢ oF Worth to God. 0 be a Person OVE js the most effective Tevenge that Was ever vented, for jt heals breaches instead deepening them, Stnke out jn anger. If the other person Strikes back, | seem justified for, see he has hit € again. The fight cont; es, If the Person meet, € with calm understanding, T am put in my Place as an €Te is on] Shame, j{ Must men MY Ways or be thought 4 baby, he person Who uses true love and Understanding; seeking healing, not hate. 797 look into a Pool and See m Infant who 'S Tuled by anger, no Teason. "lend's face reflected there, But the Image jg €Te is no Satisfaction for me in that HAWAII Tours to October 12th TOURS TO OAKLAND TEMPLE Preview and Dedication BEAUTIFUL MUSIC FOR LADIES THREE PART VOICES ABIDE WITH ME; October through November TOURS TO THE ROSE PARADE in Pasadena, California 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen...........20 —GIVE ME rey ne ' YOUR POOR—Berlin................. Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 clIF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen.....25 MUSIC—Spross _...222......-eee eee30... LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT PRAYER—Verdi __.. W.0....2...202c ceo20 Ethel Jaco HOUSE TO THEE—Madser.......20 Of elegance, Of cunning curve against curve In intricate feathered counterpoint! And then such jewel colors — Emerald, sapphire, topaz — On throat and small sleek head! Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 i i 1 Please send the music indicated | above. I 1 On Approval [ Charge! | | | ' ' With beauty, 4 (_ompanyWith life.; MTT 15 E. Ist South! / Salt Lake City 11, Utah _. ETERNAL LIFE—Dungan.............25 oe. IN THY FORM—Medsen...........20 _. HEAVENS ARE TELLING—Haydin o.. Ssssesceseseeee25 for Joy—Stephens _...........0........20 YsLORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen...................20 _LORD, HEAR OUR _—LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS 'llPRAIRIE LULLABY—Rich.............20 CO Money Enclosed a City and State aonnnseeereeeeceeeneteneennneene Da nes Mie | December through January Mar gar et Lund i ours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 A,. Wood Duck on Water thel Jacobson Such an extravagance When these woods know you no more They will have lost What made them glow most brilliantly And pulse most breathlessly DEPARTING Travel the 1. Mexico & Acapulco.......... November 28, 1964 2. Hawaiian Christmas Cruise.......... 0cDecember 20, 1964 I:. Rosebowl Football Game.. December 30, 1964 ri ay! © Aftica cccJanuary 3, 1965 Book of Mormon Lands G0 MURDOCK oat i (Central America................ January 16, 1965 FeNaditeowehrors. Of 6. —setseecaesee oeee 0February 6, 1965 These Worry-Free, Quality, 7. South America.................. February 26, 1965 All-Expense-Paid Tours: 8. Book of Mormon Lands............ March 6, 1965 SEND FOR FREE BROCHURE AND FULL PARTICULARS... MAIL COUPON TODAY! SHSOHSHSHHSSESHHSHSSHSHHESEHSHOHHEHEHSEOSEHOOEESEH RECS Murdock Travel, Inc, 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone: 328-3161 Please send me my free brochure and full particulars on the following numbered tour(s) a — NEWS IN FOOD PACKAGING AND STORAGE FOR THE HOME OTCHPAK ac (4 SCIENCE HAS OPENED UP A NEW WORLD IN CREATIVE PACKAGING Commercially proven and dependable, these amazingly strong polyester film pouches, heat sealable in seconds with a small kitchen appliance, are now available to the homemaker. They are less expensive than tins or jars and reusable. Resistant to all chemicals, rust, rot, mold, moisture, vermin, and air tight; they are non creasable and tearable, non crackable and breakable when subjected to temperatures of —70° to 240°F. Pouch sizes vary from % Pt. To 1 Gal. E Exceilent for LDS Food Storage Program. Store 2 Yrs.' supply ANY PLACE! @ Flavor-seal prepared meals for freezing and eating months later. An exciting new concept in meal making. Savings in time, food, work, space! ® Leakiess ''cook-in-pouch" container for freezing fruits, vegetables, meats. @ For canning fruits and jams. Economy, simplicity, space saving! ® Carry pre-cooked meals in a weightless container on camping, vacation, and hunting trips. No tin cans, no bottles, no messy dishes, pots or pans. ®@ Miscellaneous packaging for every member of the family — limitless possibilities: Coins, tableware, paint, seeds/bulbs, precious documents, etc. © Seal and freeze banquet leftovers. No waste. No flavor loss months later! @ Save $200 a year on food bill alone. Money back guarantee if you do not believe you have saved the cost of your Scotchpak in 90 days. Priced no higher than any other small kitchen appliance. Order Today From:— ECONO PAK, FREEPORT CENTER, CLEARFIELD, UTAH 84016 799 valuable inOciety Maga. Ound to Service 25; ver — $5 95 inetd ~~ Po ny all Orders. A, listed ROSE PARADE TOuR -05 8 doys—December 26 to January 3 via San Francisco GS and INTERPRE TATIONe (trom lhe tes i> "Our OF 'HE py Department of Audio-Visual Communication i TOVo, Utah FOR MORE EFrfec,, APDp 7 days—Decembe, 27 to January 3 Via Las Vegas and San Diego ROSE PARADE TOUR NOW available from: Brigham Young University tah 7% 1.20 'acting packet plas 10° 33 1/3... "cord containing readings ar4 Teachi Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah a bs) Reading Time is here again 1 OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, An Anth- | ology of Literature, Volume I, (The Individual and Human Values) by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas @ The exciting Relief Society reading course for '64-'65! @ Great literature from the pens of Browning, Wordsworth, Burns, Emerson, and many others! @ A must for every LDS library! Only $2.95 — 15 cents postage 2THE LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE and COVENANTS, Volume III, Sections 77-106 5) Roy W. Doxey @ The latest volume in a series analyzing the Doctrine and Covenants! @ Sections 77-106 as interpreted by General Authorities of the Church from Joseph Smith's time to the present! @ A remarkable study by one of the Church's foremost authorities on the Doctrine and Covenants! Only '$3. Qo ttt e ee eeeneasseneeeneseneneneeeeneeeoenss SS Sz — Deseret Book Compan — SS 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Dear Sir: Enclosed please find check [] money order heseret 00 [] I have an account, please charge []. Amount enclosed: $........................ For the Ritbve numbered | COMPANY c ] books: 1 2 | 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Se City... ZpState... ———_ Aa 7 SF on Residents of Utah add 34%% sales tax—R. S. Oct. 64 SALT LAKE CITY 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ° Name.......................................................... JJ ] Addr esS.... 002... 2. Ccececceeceeeeeeeen enna cece cece eee eeeceeeneeeenas Volume 51 Number 11 November 1964 Lessons for February how much we enjoy the wonderful, truly inspired, and 'uplifting Magazine. Since being away from the States (two years now), my appreciation for the Magazine has doubled. | find much wisdom in its pages; and it makes me proud to be a member of the Church and to serve with my -husband and children out here so many hundreds of miles away from our home in a_ valley of the mountains. It gives a different sense of proportion to all things. Mrs. D''On Hansen Yarraville, Victoria Australia May | tell you - Last December 1963 | began receiving our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. It was a Christmas gift from my sister Mrs. Ray E. Harris of Midvale, Utah.. My husband, who was a nonmember of the Church began reading it and now he loves the Magazine, also. Last April he and our thirteen-year-old daughter were baptized into our wonderful Church, and we have never been happier. My wonderful husband has bought a new bookcase for holding all his Church books. Mrs. Bernard O. Walker Napa, California | am a convert to the Church and have been a member for a year now. | enjoy participating in Relief Society very much, and | reaily anticipate the arrival of the Magazine. It has done so much to strengthen my testimony. | know that I-will build a better home because of the inspiration of the Magazine. Karen V. Morris Big Spring, Texas | cannot begin to tell you the many happy hours | have spent reading and learning all that my Relief Society Magazine means to me. It teaches all of us to have a better understanding and brings us closer to the kingdom of God. Phoebe Farnsworth Pocatello, Idaho 802 The Relief Society Magazines have been my friends for many years. They keep me from feeling so alone. Each one fills my needs and gives me strength. They have contributed to my spiritual growth' and have heiped me to be a better mother and homemaker. Mrs. Julia Walker Mesquite, Nevada While visiting teaching four months ago, we were welcomed into the home of a sweet young Japanese mother who, at that time, was not interested in the Church or the message. My companion and | subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine for her as a gift. Stake missionaries and other visiting teachers kept in touch. - She and two young sons -have since been baptized into the Church. The mother is now serving as second counselor in her ward Relief Society, an energetic, devoted member, whose influence is being felt for good in her own family — her widowed mother and parents: in-law, and her sisters. We are truly grateful for the excellent and welcome guest each month — the Magazine. Genevieve Lindsay Moreland, Idaho Not long ago | received a card from my home town in Idaho that the sisters there were sending me a Relief Society Magazine each month. They began in January, and with each new Magazine | look forward to its. Interesting a new investigator. In our proselyting activities, many people have been interested through this inspiring ladies' Magazine. Elder Alan Rich Crane New Zealand Mission | really enjoy the Magazine and find myself anxiously awaiting its arrival each month. The stories and poems hold great interest for me, as | have wanted to try my hand at writing for sometime. Mrs. Linda Joan Simons Spring Lake, North Carolina The Relief Society magazine Volume 51 November 1964 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special! Features 804 Home, the Child Training Center Belle S. Spafford 810 "Take My Yoke Upon You" Marianne C. Sharp 813 Happiness Louise W. Madsen 815 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fictlon 823 Our Roots Go Deep' Frances C. Yost 840 The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 2 Mabel Harmer Genera! Features 802 From Near and Far 826 Editorial: Gratitude Marianne C. Sharp 828 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Lessons on Talking Book Records Again Available for the Sightless Picture Kits for Theology Lessons Available 829 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 847 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 880 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 831 Special Rolls for Christmas Melba Christensen 834 A Welcome Christmas Gift Vilate R. McAllister 836 Colorful Felt Pictures June F. Krambule 838 "Little... Acts of Kindness and of Love" Elsie C. Carroll 839 Crocheting Is a Fine Art for Callie Haggard Lessons for February 855 Theology — The Revelation on Priesthood Roy W. Doxey 861 Visiting Teacher Message — ''Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" Christine H. Robinson 863 Work Meeting — Teaching the Gospel in the Home — Introduction Alberta H. Christensen 867 Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part I Robert K. Thomas 871 Social Science — Priesthood Function and the Community Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 801 Sound of Storm and Praise — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart Snow to Snow, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 809; Signature of Faith, by Enola Chamberlin, 812; Grace for God's Bounty, by Ethel Jacobson, 830; Time, by Evelyn Fijeldsted, 846; Undefeated, by Ruth H. Chadwick, 866; Our Garden Gate, by Rowena Jensen Bills, 875; First Grand Addition, by Leora Larsen, 876; Hold Back This Autumn, by Linnie F. Robinson, 876; Brief Hour, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 876; Another Season, by Christie Lund Coles, 878; Design, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 879. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 o year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected monuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. HOME The Child Training Center President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual * General Conference, September 30, 1964] "THE wisdom of the ages" is a standing to discern judgment; phrase frequently used, implying I have done according to thy word: that the experiences of eons 0 lo, I have given thet & bs:. Understanding heart; so th time have proved certain statehath peen none like thee before thee, ments to be true and certain _ neither after thee shall any arise like courses of action to be judicious, unto thee (1 Kings 3:5, 9-12). Prudent, sensible, and good. In the history of the world, perhaps The importance of an undernone other, save the Master himstanding heart for those who self, ls SO well known for his wiswould govern others, and the wise dom as is King Solomon who sayings of King Solomon constiLord appeared in a dream by wisdom words of Solomon worthy night to Solomon who had sucof contemplation by mothers of ceeded King David as ruler of the Church today are these: Israel, and God said, "Ask what "Tyain up 4 child in the way he IT shall give thee?" and Solomon should go: and when he is old, he replied: will not depart from it" (Proverbs 92:6). Give thy servant therefore an un Today social life has bederstanding heart to judge thy people, 48 that I may discern between good an come complex and social ills proa And the speech pleased the nounced. Mothers sometimes Lord that Solomon had asked this wonder if indeed it is possible to thing. And God said unto him, Berear the child so as to assure the cause thou hast asked this thing and c of mahast not asked for thyself long life; — of thommey neither hast asked riches for thyself,. Nor hast asked the life of thine eneEver before us are unsettling, mies; but has asked for thyself undereven frightening reports and ac- counts of temptations and existing evils which beset the paths of boys and girls, All toc many children are being caught in the web of destruction. In view of existing conditions, social studies and the development of social welfare programs are rapidly increasing, with emphasis being placed on remedial measures and social case work techniques to deal effectively with problems. The remedial measures must be administered, in large measure, by social welfare institutions, Valuable as these may be in the treatment process when a child has fallen by the wayside, is not the better approach the preventive measure through early training in the home by wise and righteous parents? Church _ leaders have long taught us that the character of our homes and the teaching we give our little ones play a determining role in the character and behavior of the adolescent child and, later, in the life of the child grown to manhood or womanhood. From time to time we hear an echo of this from those whom the world regards as authorities. In the Deseret News of August 19 there appeared a report of a paper presented at the First International Congress of Social Psychiatry in which Dr. Eleanor Glueck of Harvard Law School, an eminent criminologist, said the mother plays a determining role in whether a child js to become a delinquent and later, perhaps, a criminal. Dr. Glueck declared the three vital factors which determine the mother's influence on the child are the amount of supervision given, the HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER amount of discipline she is able to infuse, and the amount of cohesion she is able to bring into existence in the family. THE Church gives us the broader view, the greater concept of Our responsibility to our children, It gives to us first an understanding of what was meant by Solomon when he said, "Train up a child in the way he should go." The "way he should go" is made unmistakably clear, The Church further gives us specific counsel as to how to guide him along the way through our day-by-day home teachings; then it undergirds us with marvelous Priesthood quorum and auxiliary programs. While, through unfortunate circumstances or perhaps unjudicious action on the part of parents, a child may fail to receive the firm and wise direction required to avoid the pitfalls of life, I believe our Church has a vast majority of competent, successful mothers, and our young people, generally speaking, merit our confidence, At times, even one who strays from sound parental teachings returns in later life repentant because of those teachings. Only recently a son who had been carefully taught by righteous parents, four years of age, told me a fascirecalcitrant youth and young manhood, my parental teachings remained ing influence and held the line to tirely rid myself of them, and, finally, they led me back to right living and happiness," 805 NOVEMBER 1964 It seems human nature to talk much of the one who goes astray and call little attention to the countless numbers who follow the path of right. President McKay referred to this and, at the same time, expressed his confidence in the youth of the Church as follows: So while we solicitously call attention to the tragedies in the stream of human life, let us not be unmindful of the much greater group who move steadily and successfully along, avoiding the sandbars and rapids of sinful indulgence and spiritual decay, whose noble lives confirm and increase confidence in the growing generation. As we seek the lost sheep, let us be appreciative of the "ninety and nine" that are safe in the fold. (Motherhood — A Partnership With God, compiled by Harold Lundstrom, pp. 4-5). I recall attending a dinner not long ago with a group of nonLatter-day Saint women who were active in civic and social welfare programs. Considerable concern over the growing antisocial behavior of youth was expressed. The group seemed in general agreement as to the need to strengthen the American home as a means of improving conditions. At length a woman seated next to me directed two pertinent questions to me. She inquired, (1) "Do you have any juvenile delinquency among the youth of your Church, and if so, do you have any statistics comparing the percentage of delinquents among you with the national percentage?" (2) "Also, you have extremely high standards of home and family life, as well as a rigid set of behavior disciplines. How effective are these as controls in the lives of your young people?" 806 I had no figures I could give her. I could not in honesty say we had no delinquency, but I felt confident in saying our standards and teachings brought forth good fruit. Without hesitancy I said I felt they produced an abundant harvest of upright, law-abiding men and women. I was mindful of the more than 11,000 young missionaries now serving the Lord in the mission field; I thought of the tens of thousands in years past who have done so. There came to my mind an impressive sight I had just witnessed of thousands of young men and women crowding into the Tabernacle for the Mutual Improvement Association conference — chosen to be leaders because of their worthiness in this marvelous youth program. I thought of the many young men who are in bishoprics and stake presidencies; I thought of one young man, the excellence of whose home training I knew so well, recently being chosen of the Lord through his prophet to be an apostle — a witness for Christ to the world. I thought of others similarly taught and _ similarly called who are today a power for righteousness among the nations of the earth. I thought of the endless number of intelligent young women of faith and testimony presiding over Relief Societies throughout the Church. A visit to a campus branch Relief Society is a heartening and inspiring experience. Yes, I thought of a conversation I had had in one of the large eastern cities with a little twelveyear-old scout who had been carefully trained by a righteous and beautiful mother who had just passed away. The boy had been on a week-end Scout outing. With face aglow, he told me the group to which he belonged had. Been: singled out by a national leader for special recognition and privilege. The national leader had said "How is it that so many fine boys belong to this one group?" With certainty that he knew the answer, the child had said to me; "We were all Mormons." A seemingly endless chain of evidence of the fruitfulness of Church teachings, inculcated in children, in large measure, by righteous parents in the home Passed in review before my mind. I felt the effectiveness _ of our Standards and discipline is best measured as directed by the Lord and recorded by St. Matthew: "Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them" (Matthew: 7:20). Wat I like to regard as a great body of scripture—words spoken by the Lord and by our latter-day prophets through inspiration of the Lord and recorded for our study and use—fortify us in our struggle to train our children in the way they should go. May I present a brief sampling of these: The admonition of the Lord recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants 68:25-28 js sufficiently familiar to most of us that I feel it is not necessary to read it. For those unfamiliar with this scripture, I commend it to you as good reading. Latter-day Saints have always been taught that marriage was divinely instituted and that temple marriage is the sure foundation upon which to build a good HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER and an eternal home. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared that "marriage was an institution of heaven, instituted in the garden of Eden; that it was necessary that it should be solemnized by the authority of the everlasting Priesthood"' (Joseph Smith's Teachings, 1912 ed., page 103). President McKay made this fervent plea: Oh may our youth throughout the land realize that they have within their grasp the possibility of that form of marriage more to their happiness in this world and their eternal union and happicome than can President J. Reuben Clark reminded us of the fundamental and eternal relationships of the family as follows: The family, looked at broadly, is as nearly basic to the principles and plan of the Restored Gospel as any principle of which I know. We have a Heavenly Father and Mother, the eternal parents of the spirits of us who are here. And those spirits were created that they might come to this earth and receive mortal tabernacles so that in the due time of the Lord we may lay away the mortal taber-. Nacle: then in due time we shall resume it, and become the perfect soul, the body and the spirit reunited.. _- The family ' President Joseph Fielding Smith sets forth our duty in rearing our children: Tt is the duty of parents to teach children the Saving principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ so that they 807 NOVEMBER 1964 (Ibid., page 148), Particularly IMportant j _ — —_ Competitive world. Discipline - embodied in the President John Taylor spoke of 80spel of Christ It is funda- € need to educate our c Mental to 800d child rearing, but 0 afford them opportuni must be wisely exercised, instruction and learning, as fo]- Brigham Young early taught lows: Latter-day Saint Parents wise Principles of child government: We do not want a posterit 66 9 nt... Of passion" (lbid., Page 23). It igs noteworthy that today, Elder Orson P ratt enlarges, as When individual] liberty jg threat. Among us in Some instances: Sponsibilit for teaching Do not Correct your children in pane Pp TNciple, Say. Ia Presi anger. Be deliberate and calm in your c counsels and Teproofs, but at the same The home js the best place in the sme use ear nestness and decision, world to teach the highest ideal in the error you may See, for this will So ly, perfect liberty of action so long as Courage your family, and they wil you do not trespass upon the rights begin to think it ig "MPOssible to and Privileges of another (Lbid., Please you; and after a while they Page 6). Will become indifferent as to whether they Please you or not.. _ € So stern in your family 80vernment en th ear and dread (Ibi Page 29) Most effective means of teaching Our children, Howard Elder Harold RB Lee emphaunter puts it im these words Sizes the need for the Spiritual] « € should be good examples to touch: "The Maintenance of our children, for the greatest Spiritual] Contacts, the exercise teaching is done by Way of ex. Of family Prayers, the constant ample |,. This jis the great chalattention to Church duties, have lenge of Parenthood" (Tbid., all been some of the things that Page 51), have helped these four L. D. S.] Latter-day Saints have often omes to be Successfy]" (lbid., referred to themselves as a pe- but as distinctive. Elder Richard L. Evans declared: The word peculiar is not peculiar to us; it is peculiar to scripture. A word by which the Lord describes a generation that he will have, peculiar in purity, in honor, in righteousness as indicated in both Old and New Testament texts (Ibid., page 45). In our homemaking and child rearing, then, as in other things, we must be a peculiar people. In a day when views and patterns with regard to homemaking and the role of woman are marked by change from that which has been traditional, we do not follow that which is heralded as modern and progressive and which is popularly acclaimed as being new and exciting, only save as it squares with the teachings of the Church. It is true that in today's world it requires eternal vigilance to keep children in the path of virtue and truth. But we may take comfort in the fact that this is not only possible but a general accomplishment among Latterday Saints who adhere to the It is ' HOME—THE CHILD TRAINING CENTER teachings of the Church, as is attested by the thousands of fine boys and girls among us. I commend our Relief Society mothers. I am particularly grateful for the lives of our young mothers, many of whom have a number of young children. Their courage, their love of truth, their desire to know and to follow counsel, their faithful Church attendance bid well for the next generation. It is an inspiration to see them gather for their Relief Society meetings, with their little ones clustered about them seeking to learn the way they should go. May the Lord ever bless our mothers with understanding hearts and the wisdom to train their children in the way they should go so that when they are old they will not depart from it. May their fears with regard to rearing their children in today's changing and troubled world be supplanted by the peace of heart which comes through adherence to Church counsel, I sincerely pray. Snow to Snow Eva Willes Wangsgaard Spring buds opened bright and brief. Petals fell for summer's sake. Autumn thinned out leaf by leaf. Winter's falling flake by flake. Gold to green to gold again Buried on the crystal plain. 809 ""Take My Yoke Upon You' Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General. Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 'September: 30, 1964] As I was reading in: Matthew recently, 1 was impressed by some verses which I feel sure most of us could repeat from memory: Come unto me, all ye that Jabour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and jearn of me; for I am meek, and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, den is light: and my burAs I read this comforting invitation I wondered, what is the yoke of the Savior for me, a Latter-day Saint woman, which we all should take upon us, and what makes the buréen light? As I thought of the yoke of the Savior, I decided that for a married wornenit wouhd, first of ali, be striving for perfection as a wife and mother. No woman can find rest in her soul it she is not daily seeking to become better in these two most important responsibilities. The burdens of life are ever pressing upon Us, and if we do not keep our eyes single to these two fundamental duties, our souls are- 810 without rest, unrighteous burdens crush out the joy, and leave boredom, frustrations,' and unhappiness in its place. To be a joyful wife we must honor the Priesthood im our homes and support our husbands in righteous endeavors. We must keep our homes: in order and make them havens of peace and love. To be a joyful mother we must devote ourselves to our children; teach them to respect the Priesthood,. Be obedient to their fathers, and do the. Part of a mother in training them in light ana truth. As 1 considered further yoke of the Savior for a woiMman, I naturally considered activities to which I have devoted my tne. I po on the time i, have spent in Relief Soerety work. Is that a part of the yoke? I quickly decided that Relief Society offers the opportunity to help a woman take upcn herself the yoke of the Savior and find that his burden is light. What does Relief Society give to a woman to bring rest unto her soul? The answers came so fast I could hardly separate them. Swiftly pictures flowed through my mind of the teachings and training I had received in Relief Society from the time I first joined before I was married. Relief Society is used by the Lord, I decided, to give to a daughter, at the proper time, truths and practice in those truths of which she stands in need. As wives and mothers in our homes we act as individuals in meeting our problems, seeking through prayer the _ solutions. When we become members of Relief Society, however, we learn and are trained in the midst of our sisters. We have a basis of comparison. For instance, we may feel our own burdens are almost heavier than we can bear. Then we become acquainted with a sister whose burdens are such that ours assume a paler hue. On the other hand, we may hear a sister complain of her burdens which, to us, seem rather paltry. And we learn a lesson — many lessons — from the associations with our sisters: the burden of one of us may seem of small moment to another, but each woman has her burden. When we are in Relief Society, no longer are we alone in our problems — we are one with the sisterhood of the Church and our outlook is broadened. Wuat if a Latter-day Saint woman is called to serve in the Sunday School, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, or the Primary? As women, we answer these calls willingly and receive great blessings and joy therein, but service "TAKE MY YOKE UPON YOU" in no other organization gives to a woman as a woman the light and truth she can gain personally from devotion to Relief Society. This is true because Relief Society was divinely established by our Heavenly Father for his daughters. How does Relief Society help us to take upon ourselves the yoke of the Savior? The assistance we receive is manifold. First, we become students of the scriptures on an adult level, through lessons written especially for women. Just during the years since I came in the Presidency we have studied slowly and thoroughly the life of Christ, The Book of Mormon, and, now, the Doctrine and Covenants. As we have studied, we have searched the scriptures. As we study and discuss subjects in a spirit of prayer, enlightenment and understanding swell within us. We strive to follow the admonition of the Prophet Joseph, "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward." We are helped to decide, as mothers, whether Johnny should be given the money he asks for, and if Mary should be allowed to go to the party. All the understanding which comes to us in Relief Society becomes a part of us to help in making our own minute-by-minute decisions. WE learn to serve others and to increase our talents. Relief Society was to act upon these words, as the Prophet Joseph instructed, "'Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" The service we give in Relief Society 811 NOVEMBER 1964 builds and strengthens many facets of our characters. We learn to be obedient to those over us, and learn to give unquestioned loyalty to them. Our own personal wishes are submerged. This engenders unselfishness and trains us in humility. We learn to accept responsibility. We are often asked to undertake a task which we feel is beyond our capabilities; however, we accept the task and, as we accomplish it with the help of the Lord, the yoke becomes easier. We learn to nurse the sick, to comfort the sorrowing, to discern the needs of our sisters. Relief Society provides a great opportunity to increase our faith, and then the further opportunity to prove our faith by our works — to step beyond our own doorsills and emulate the example of the Master who went about doing good. The Savior did not restrict his service to his own loved family members. Remember he asked, ''Who is my mother? And who are my brethren?" And answered, "whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother." Can a Latter-day Saint woman take on the yoke of Christ and wilfully ignore and deny the Relief Society? The Savior says, "Learn of me for I am meek and lowly of heart." Is there a better way to learn to be meek and lowly than by serving our neighbors as directed by those in authority? Is there a better way to increase our testimonies than by studying in this divine organization whose motto is "Charity Never Faileth'? If we do not have charity, the pure love of Christ, to motivate our thoughts and actions, we are nothing. Shutting ourselves in ivory towers alone to study and learn the scriptures is not taking the yoke of Christ upon us, nor can we love the Savior, pray for the sick and afflicted, and then turn our backs on them. He has said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." As we approach ever nearer the Savior while doing work such as he did, we receive rest unto our souls. As we take upon us his yoke, we find it is easy; the joy of accomplishment, the satisfaction of service, our increasing love for the Savior do make his burden light. May we all live to know the truth of his promise 'For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light," I pray. Signature of Faith Enola Chamberlin Across immensity of sky, No footprint trail to show, No slim-bent tree, no wide-lined map, Migrating bird wings go. Only the signature of faith Edging the high-still dawn, Blazing across the midnight sky Is there to lead them on. 812 Happiness Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964] HapPINEss is the purpose and design of existence. To gain happiness and to contribute to the happiness of others are foremost goals of living. A happy and contented life has been called "the eternal quest of mankind." To be happy is the ultimate goal of all ambition, all endeavors, all hopes and plans. True happiness stems from a quality within ourselves — a quality that is both innate and acquired. Happiness comes from within and is mostly simple goodness and a clear conscience. No one can be happy without some feeling of satisfaction with himself. In a searching self-scrutiny one usually finds much to be done to bring about this satisfaction with oneself. Self-discipline is a necessary ingredient. As Abraham Lincoln once said, "Most folks are about as happy as they make up their minds to be." Almost every human being can be happier than he is. A more optimistic. Outlook, greater altruism, vigorous social service, facing life's realities and difficulties with firmness, and having a zest for living, characterize the happy person. A sense of humor is necessary. It is sometimes hard 'to realize that, for the most part, one makes his own happiness. While happiness comes from within ourselves its focus must needs be outside ourselves. We must seek it unselfishly, finding ways to bring joy to others. Loving service brings a wealth of joy in return. This we know to be true, for experience has shown us that if we have hurt someone that hurt clouds the sun for us until it is remedied. Contentment is one phase of happiness, contentment with life as it is lived. 'To be content with what we possess is the greatest and most secure of riches' (Cicero). This does not deny ambition, preparing for a better life, desiring more of the riches of this world. This does not mean we have to stay at the same level. Rather, contentment is the joy of being happy with what we have along the way. Many young couples with the husband still in 813 NOVEMBER 1964 school live in rather meager circumstances, yet live in deep contentment. They are preparing for more plenteous living but are happy along the way. There are always those who believe that happiness can _ be bought; that money, possessions, things to be owned, places to go automatically bring happiness. This is seldom true. "Money may buy the husk of things, but not the kernel. It brings you food but not appetite, medicine but not health, acquaintances but not friends — days of joy but not peace or happiness," according to Henrik Ibsen. Before one sets his heart upon something it would be well to examine how happy they are who already possess it. One definition of happiness for thoughtful examination is: "The - happiest person is the person who thinks the most _ interesting thoughts." 'How essential it is," taught William Lyon Phelps, "to be able to live inside a mind with attractive and interesting pictures on the walls." What a delightful way of reminding us that what we are within may grow more beautiful with the advancing years if we have stored treasures of study, experience, and education in our minds. Nothing exceeds the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking. Work, work that is interesting, work that we love is happiness. No one is happy who does nothing. Idleness is anything but happiness. Few persons realize how much of their happiness is dependent upon their work; good hard work that affords an outlet for all their talents and abilities. Real life is love, laughter, and 814 work. To accomplish, to achieve and exceed our goal — this, too, is happiness. Happiness comes to us in many ways. There are moments of transcending happiness, and many moments of quiet happiness in simple, ordinary things. Someone has said that you should not seek happiness as if it were the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, but among people living a full rewarding life. Each day should bring its own rewards. "Faith is the foundation of all things, including happiness," is one of President David O. McKay's "Ten Rules to Happiness." With faith nothing is impossible. The peace of mind and serenity of heart that are necessary come through faith in the Lord and understanding and living the gospel. Religious principles are engrained in the hearts of truly happy people. The deepest joys are spiritual in nature. Happiness is love at home. The wealth, fame, power, or riches of the world cannot compare with the joy of love between husband and wife shared and enhanced by loved and loving children. No peace is so sweet, no security so firm, no joy so complete as love at home. This kind of love was with us in our heavenly home before we came to the world and will be with us in our eternal home and family life. True happiness then is love, contentment, self - discipline, work, service, enlightenment, faith, and the blessings of our Heavenly Father. May we all live to experience happiness in its fullest measure. Report President Belle S. Spafford and Official [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General ConInstructions ference, September 30, 1964] Sd a yi PRESIDENT B LLE S. SPAFFORD DELIVERING REPORT Seated back of President Spafford, left to right: Sara |. Tanner, wife of President N. Eldon Tanner, Counselor Marianne Cc. Sharp; Counselor Louise w. Madsen, President Joseph Fielding Smith, Adviser to Relief Society; Jessie E. Smith, wife of President Smith; {da J. Romney, wife of Elder Romney, Elder Marion G. Romney, Adviser to Relief Society. AX regular feature of the Officers of Relief Society presidents and Meeting of the General Relief other officers. Society Conference is a report of the status of the organization as ORGANIZATIONS revealed in the annual report for At the close of 1963, there was the previous year, together with 4 total of 389 stake Relief Sonew official instructions and a cieties, an increase of thirty-eight few suggestions from the General over 1962. There was a total of Board relative to the conduct of seventy-four mission Relief Sothe work of the Society. Figures cieties, an increase of five over for 1963 show growth of the orthe previous year. There were ganization in both the stakes and eight new mission district Relief missions, and accomplishments Societies created, making a total reflect good leadership on the part of 362. 815 NOVEMBER 1964 Since January 1964, eleven new stakes have been created and two new missions, making a present total of 400 stakes and seventy-six missions, which for the most part, are represented here today. At the close of 1963 there was a total of 6,353 ward and branch Relief Societies, an increase of 382. MEMBERSHIP At the close of 1963 there was an enrollment of 262,002 women, an increase of 13,836 — of whom approximately 3,000 were nonLatter-day Saints. It is recognized that this substantial membership increase has been the result of intensive effort, wisely directed by Relief Society presidents. Relief Society membership is so vital to Latter-day Saint women that presidents are urged to continue to be aware of the importance of enlisting as members all Latter-day Saint women within the respective wards, and of bringing into activity the sisters who, for one reason or another, have become inactive. Women, generally speaking, are anxious to contribute their talents and skills to worthwhile programs, if they feel they are genuinely needed. Such contributions from nonmembers or inactive sisters should be _ invited. They often result in women becoming active members. The work meeting, the Singing Mothers choruses, bazaars, social activities offer excellent opportunities for such contributions. The compassionate services ofttimes require sisters with special skills and aptitudes. Nonmember or inactive sisters may be enlisted for these 816 services. Two-session Relief Societies, for which instructions are available at the General Board offices, have been found helpful in some wards in increasing membership, particularly where there are a number of working women. Well-conducted nurseries make possible the enrollment and attendance of mothers with young children who otherwise might feel they could not affiliate with Relief Society. As an aid to Relief Society in conducting good nursery programs, the General Board now has available for purchase at the General Board Office a nursery kit which includes a booklet entitled "Our Relief Society Nursery — Book II," and also a book and cut-outs for a one-yearprogram unit entitled "Living in Jesus' Day." The cost of the kit is $2.25. The Home Teaching Program of the Church provides a valuable new avenue for enlisting women as active members of Relief Society. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents acquaint themselves through their bishops with procedures in making use of this resource. ATTENDANCE Attendance increases are gratifying. During 1963 there was in excess of 7,000 more women present at the regular weekly meetings than during the previous year. EDUCATION Figures show that last year 22,182 class leaders brought spiritual and intellectual development to the Society's 262,002 members. Courses of study were Well received and Met the interOf this text, Not Only wil] this ests and needs of the Sisters. Make the lesson discussion more The theology Course for 1964. Interesting and beneficial), but the 65 is a Continuation of the Study book will Prove a Valuable addiof the Doctrine and Covenants, tion to the home library, beginning With Section 76 The Socia] Science Course, "Hj. Dispensation, and the Sisters have The following Interesting coma *esponsibility to themselves and ment on the Course "Divine Law: nig ha Pr €ir families + be fa liar With and Chu Government" wa lS volume of Scripture recent] to me th e Visiting teacher Messages President f an Overseas Stake 'Truths to Liy Tom the "4 number Problems former] Octrine a Ovenants " from €nCcounter, d t cers who ology, Present, emphasize, and have Cleared away as wo have lustrate Specific charactey and studied the lessong °n Church Personali ty traits Necessary in the overnment," conduc a tteray Saint =e NEW ORDINATED The literature Course for 1964 COURSE oF STUDy IS entitled « Ndividua] and um alues Seen A Specia] announcement relaT. Rough erature." he elief j € toa ne Series of lessons de OCiet €neral Boa d has Prosigned t p thers Pport Vided for Use in the literature err hy ds in teaching the Course, for © two years ahead, 80Spel in ¢ hom » Will entail a textbook entitled « of the some Modification; lans foy th est Book, Compiled and edited wo eeting SCuSsions for Y Dr. Bruce B » Current] 1964 » 4S Well a Modificatig alrman he epartment f inaf, W proced S Presently be Nglish B Oung Upj ing followe Is the esire of versity, w tha ch pter Written by hurch leaders to € a conObert S, a fellow EngCentrated ffort Strengthey, ish teacher w th D lark Parents jn teaching the SoSpel in € textbook ay be r € homes armony with Chased from Deseret ook commendations the Ompany at the no! Price of hurch Correlation Ommittee, a $2, ber co Rem ttance must Series of elve | SsOns for uSe in accompany Order you know elief So; beginning In Jany each Society lS authorized to pur avy 1965, ha Tepared to € textbook or the use Of the 0 be used b e€ Melc lzedek Class leade h r,! Board, Tiesthoo In rder to accom. OWever, SUggests the esirability Modate S course, he followin NOVEMBER 1964 October, November, December 1964, will be presented as announced in the June Magazine. The last five of this series of discussions will be reserved for use later. (2) In lieu of these five discussions, planned for January through May 1965, the new coordinated lessons will be taught in the work meeting, the first of which will be published in the November Magazine. The comprehensiveness of these new lessons makes it seem advisable to allow thirty minutes for their presentation in the work meeting rather than the twenty minutes recommended for the present discussions; (3) Beginning in October 1965, the new coordinated lessons will become the social science course and will be presented by the social science class leader October through May, at the regular social science meeting. During the summer months, they will be presented by the social science class leader in the summer' work meeting, in a thirty minute period. As you know, no lesson is planned for the fourth week in December. It will be necessary, therefore, to reverse the order of the social science and literature meetings beginning October 1965, in order to accommodate the twelve lessons planned for the coordinated social science course. Only seven lessons will be planned for literature for the 1965-66 year. The new coordinated lessons will be under the direction of the education counselor. It is recommended that the sisters who teach the coordinated lessons in the work meeting meet in the social science department at the 818 leadership meeting January through April 1965, and that a portion of the time be used to assist these class leaders. In other words, the stake social science class leader will assist ward class leaders in both the course on Divine Law and Church Government and on the new coordinated lessons. LESSONS FOR INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES In order to be more helpful to the sisters of the Indian Relief Societies, a lesson manual for the use of these Societies is being issued by the General Board and is available at the General Board office, price $1.25 per copy. The manual contains three sets of lessons as follows: Theology — eight lessons from The Book of Mormon Literature — eight lessons on Latter-day Saint Church History Social Science — seven lessons on The Essentials for Happy Family Living A set of fourteen pictures; a map for use in the Church history course; and a chart dealing with The Book of Mormon plates suitable to augment the Indian lessons, cost $2.75 plus postage, are available at the Deseret Book Company. Stakes and missions having Indian Relief Societies are urged to encourage their use of these lessons. They should purchase the manual and the visual aids and make regular use of these materials. Some of the Indian sisters may desire to purchase the manual for themselves. A sufficient number has been prepared to allow for this. Indian Relief Societies will use the new coordinated lessons be- ginning in 1965, following the plan as outlined above. NO HANDWORK DURING LESSON PRESENTATIONS A question which has persisted through the years is as follows: May the members do handwork during the presentation of the lessons? The General Board in no way alters the position taken on this matter as early as 1940, which is as follows: The sisters should not engage in sewing or any type of handwork in any Relief Society meeting except the work meeting, which is primarily for these activities, To engage in handwork during the presentation of a lesson divides the attention of the class member, it is not conducive to her active participation in the lesson, since She is less WORK MEETING The work meeting, second to the theology meeting in attendance, was unusually successful in terms of interesting women in Relief Society, and in training them in the homemaking arts and skills. The Sisters completed a total of 1,054,894 articles. Of this number, 687,091 sewed articles, ods of better REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS homemaking tasks were learned, The ideals of homemaking embodied in Latter - day Saint teachings were discussed, It is felt that this Meeting is highly productive in helping the sisters of order, cleanliness, thrift, and spiritual strength. It is noted that there is marked improvement in the work meetings where there is Planning in advance for the twelve monthly appropriate still need consideration in some Activities should be suited to the membership as a whole; financial costs, either to the organization or to the individual members, should be carefully Weighed, and programs should be in harmony with the 8eneral purposes and character of the work Meeting as outlined by the General Board. (The new coordinated lessons will require that at least a portion of the time be a formal] meeting. ) AS an aid to work meeting leaders, the General Board js issuing a new booklet entitled, "Work Four Seasons to Fill the Measure of the Year," A limited Society of $1.25 per Copy. It will be advantageous for work meeting leaders planning to attend the work meeting department of this conference to have this booklet in their hands during the meeting. We are sorry issuing this 819 NOVEMBER 1964 either of these booklets to each stake and mission. Following this conference, a larger supply of the work meeting booklet will be ready, thus making it available for purchase through the stake or mission for ward and branch work meeting leaders. Requests have recently reached the General Board for directions on how best to handle money for work meeting supplies. Experience has taught us that a careful estimate of costs of materials and supplies for approved work meeting activities should be made. A check signed by the secretarytreasurer and _ the president should be issued to the person designated by the president to make the purchases, When purchases are made, a listing of the purchases, together with the sales slips and any unused money should be turned over to the secretary-treasurer who will make the proper entries in the record book. Generally speaking, the General Board discourages charge accounts. A few Relief Societies have inquired as to whether the General Board approves setting up a petty cash fund for the purchase of small items as needed, such as thread, scissors, etc. This is also discouraged since a precise accounting of expenditures of small amounts of Relief Society money is as mandatory as is the accounting of expenditures of larger sums, and it is often difficult to keep track of small amounts. Also, careful advance planning takes into account all such needs, and purchases are made along with other materials, supplies, and equipment. We call your attention to the Mormon Handicraft Work Meet- 820 ing Supplies Department located at 21 West South Temple. This department is maintained exclusively as an accommodation to Relief Society organizations. It is operated as a wholesale business, thus benefiting the Relief Societies financially as well as making suitable materials conveniently available to them. Since the Supply Department is not a retail business, sales to individuals as such are not allowed. VISITING TEACHING Recognizing the value and importance of visiting teaching in the program of Relief Society, we are deeply grateful for the marked increase in the number of visits and the quality of teaching being done by the Society's 113,680 faithful sisters who month by month, rain or shine, go forth as emissaries of Relief Society to Latter-day Saint homes. There were in excess of 4,300,000 visits made during 1963, an increase over the previous year of approximately 200,000. MAGAZINE Highest commendation is due Relief Society Magazine representatives who, encouraged by Relief Society presidents, increased the paid subscriptions by 15,827, making a present paid circulation of 217,397. You will be pleased to know that the circulation for this October will be 223,000. The editorial staff of the Magazine deserves praise for the physical attractiveness of the publication and for the general excellence of Magazine content. MUSIC It is the responsibility of the ward chorister, planning with the organist, to select songs to be sung by the congregation as a part of the regular procedure of the weekly Relief Society meetings. By carefully reading the previews and lessons in all departments and planning together for each Relief Society meeting, and through suggestions received from the stake chorister and organist at the leadership meetings, the ward chorister and organist will be able to choose music that will correlate with the subject to be studied. The message of the lesson to be taught on each of the respective meeting days is enhanced where the congregational songs correlate with the lesson. Where a class leader wishes a special musical number to augment the lesson during its presentation and emphasize its message, she may arrange for such music herself, as she would arrange for any other special feature or teaching aid in connection with the lesson. It is a courtesy, however, for her to acquaint the chorister with her plan. If she wishes to enlist the help of the chorister in obtaining a special musical number, she may do so through authorization of the president. SINGING MOTHERS Singing Mothers activities are proving to be a missionary for Relief Society and the Church and are bringing cultural and spiritual development as well as joy into the lives of participants. Outstanding concerts have been held in many areas. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS At the close of 1963, the Society had approximately 3,000 Singing Mothers choruses with 42,000 sisters participating. COMPASSIONATE SERVICES Compassionate services continue to expand with the growth of Relief Society and the growth of the Church. These services of loving, tender mercy symbolize the heart of Relief Society, enriching the lives of those who serve and blessing those who are served. The following figures are heartening: Mee 1963 crease Days care of the sick 32,666 1,9384-+ Visits to Sick and Homebound 390,566 24,744+- Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services 596,349 98,059-+- NURSING SERVICES There are 3,674 wards and branches maintaining a current list of nurses within their respective areas. The General Board has long emphasized the importance of this, along with the importance of women taking training for the nursing profession. Excellent short-term courses are offered in practical nursing. Courses leading toward a baccalaureate degree are also available. Our own Brigham Young University offers such training. Relief Society would be remiss in meeting its responsibility to the sick if it failed to concern itself with the training of nurses. I call your attenton 821 NOVEMBER 1964 to the article, "Nursing and Nurse Training in Relief Society," by Irene B. Woodford, Relief Society Magazine, September 1964. CHURCH WELFARE PARTICIPATION The sisters continue devoted support of the Church Welfare Program as is evidenced by the following figures: Family Visits Made Increase Under Direction of Bishop 100,969 3,454+ Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects 902,221 7,264+ It is our understanding that some changes are anticipated in designations of members of Relief Society presidencies and also in meetings and procedures as they relate to Relief Society's cooperation with the Church Welfare Program. Such changes will be announced at the proper time by the Church Welfare Committee. We assure the brethren that the full support of Relief Society will be forthcoming as changes are made. INTER-STAKE FUNCTIONS Sisters, we are noting a growing tendency for two or more stakes to join together for a special function, such as a Homemaking Institute, a Magazine Promotion Workshop, or a Class Leaders' Institute. Specialists usually appear on the program and tremendous effort is put forth to assure the success of the undertak- 822 ing. Often considerable costs are involved. The General Board does not endorse such multiple _ stake activities. Most of the good derived from such activities could be accomplished within the individual stakes and, in most instances, within the framework of the approved and regularly scheduled programs and meetings. It is a convenience to the sisters to have functions within their own wards or stakes and more sisters receive development. Also this is the orderly procedure of the Church. Where deviations from this regulation seem desirable, the matter should be referred to the General Board for approval. EXERCISE OF FRANCHISE One other matter seems appropriate to call to your attention. This is a national election year. Relief Society women of the past worked long and hard to win the right to vote and to hold public office. We urge you to exercise your right of franchise. Be informed on the issues, learn all you can as individuals from reliable sources about the candidates, and vote according to what you believe to be in the best interests of good government. The woman's vote today is an important one — it should be an informed one. CONCLUSION May the choice blessings of the Lord continue with you during 'the forthcoming season as you give humble and inspired leadership to the Relief Societies of your respective stakes and mission districts. Our Roots Go Deep Marion Coombs kissed each loving child and waved them all off to school. Wally had left almost at daylight for the electric shop. He had a television set he had promised to get repaired and delivered by noon, and it was a cantankerous job, he said, which would probably take a lot of time. Marion sat down by the window to watch the children out of sight as they skipped down the street toward school. She needed to give herself a much-needed Moment of rest, too. As she glanced out of the window she saw her neighbor, Vera Holly, dressed most becomingly, get into a car at the curb and drive off with a strange man. Marion's eyebrows raised slightly and she murmured, "Well, what do you know?" Frances C. Yost Marion mastered her mind and brought it back to her own world and her own problems, Let's see, none of the family will be home for lunch, so she wouldn't have to bother about that. There were the makings of a nice stew in the frig for supper. The family liked stew, but she needed something to glorify it. How about a grapefruit and avocado salad? A strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert would be just super. Marion could almost hear the family's "ah's" of approval at the very sight of a dessert piping hot from the oven, and freezing cold from the frig. She would make two big pies while she was at it, and the family could have seconds all the way around. Marion cleaned up the house in good time, and started making the crust for the pies. But her 823 NOVEMBER 1964 mind wandered back to Vera Holly. Where had she gone? Who was the fellow she had driven off with? "Marion Coombs, will you curb your impulsive thoughts?" she chided. Yet, thinking about the Holly family was part of her living. They had bought these houses side by side before either couple had any children. Marion remembered the day she and Wally had moved in. Vera and Jim had come over to help them with the heavy furniture. They had even set out the trees together. These dear old evergreens, quaking aspen, and silver maple trees now shaded their homes as if they had been planted by Father Adam... Well almost. As the children came along, they, too, had become fast friends. Many a ball game they had had across the street in the park together. Lately, since young John Holly and Wally J. Were big enough, their fun had included bowling and overnight fishing excursions with their fathers. Marion remembered the day the Holly house had caught on fire. There hadn't been a great deal of damage, and yet the house was smoked up in every room, and Marion had invited the family to come over and sleep and eat at her home until they could renovate and repair the damage. Marion remembered, too, one day when her own little Susie had come up missing. She and Vera trudged every street in the area on foot. How they could have used a car that day! They had finally found little Susie up on Elmer Drive in a swimming pool. It had been Vera Holly 824 who had presence of mind enough to administer artificial respiration and mouth-to-mouth breathing. She owed a lot to Vera Holly. Jim Holly hadn't spent as much time with her and Wally lately as he used to. Well, he hadn't spent as much time with the family either. He was so tied up in his real estate business, which was booming in all directions. Poor, dear, faithful Wally was still plugging away in the electric repair shop on a hit-and-miss salary. But they managed and were happy, and that was what counted most. Yet it was hard to see one's friends who had started out with nothing, just the same as yourselves, to watch them advance and be successful financially. But, Marion told herself, money wasn't everything. She wondered again about Vera Holly, and where she was spending the day. Marion found time to study her literature lesson for Relief Society, and to read the Doctrine and Covenants assignment for the theology lesson. She even pasted pictures in her Book of Remembrance before the children came home from school. At last the clock's hands moved themselves to four-thirty, and the children, one by one, shouted "Mother," as they came in the front door. And in answer to each one she replied sweetly: "Right here, dear." It was nice having the children around her, Marion thought. She liked to hear how Wally J. Was coming with his advanced math, even though she couldn't help him anymore, because he had surpassed her in the field of arithmetic. She liked the recipes which Susie brought home from her home economics classes to try out on the family. She liked the seventh grade science lessons which Dale read aloud to her. Life was good, she had a 800d family, Just then Vera Holly turned in the driveway. She was at the wheel of a new royal blue station wagon. Marion could tell by the I on Vera's face that it was her own Car, and it was completely paid for. If Vera came over bragging about it, she would - - she would. Arion didn't know what She would do. Probably start crying with envy. "Marion," she said, "get hold of yourself! Why the idea of being jealous because someone gets a new car. Shame! Shame! Shame!" She knew if Vera Holly was in trouble, was becoming jealous and wanted to weave a her eyes, added a bit of lipstick, and slipped out of the door and OUR ROOTS GO DEEP walked over to the Holly resjdence. She rang the back doorbell. "Oh, Marion, I'm So glad you came over." Vera was busy preParing a quick spaghetti supper and a tossed Salad. "T thought you could use this Strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert." 6 You see, I've been gone all day, and I'm tired. Marion, it's a long story and I'll have to Start at the first. Bit. "Jim opened up that Windemere building area, and he said that if I wanted to, we could get one of those choice lots and build anew home. We looked at house plans, but you know, Marion, the new modern homes aren't homey and cozy like yours and mine. "Our whole family talked it Over, and we took a secret ballot vote. Would you believe it, we all voted to stay right here. The children like their friends here, and their tree house. We planted these dear old trees, you folks and Jim and I, and well, you just can't pull up roots like that. Our roots go deep, Marion. "I told Jim what I wanted was a car of my own. So that when you and I wanted to 80 shopping, or take the children on picnics or for a swim we could go. Jim and Wally always have the family cars, and I thought how nice it would be if I could drive you to Relief Society when you have all those visual] aids to carry, J thought about the time we hunted for little Susie when she was (Continued on page 879) 825 EDITORIAL ©amuel Johnson said, "Gratitude is a fruit of great cultivation"; and Aesop wrote "Gratitude is the sign of noble souls." Latter-day Saints are taught to express gratitude to the Lord many times daily — in secret prayer, before each meal, in family prayers, and in testimonies before one's fellow men. Gratitude is expressed as the result of the ability to buy a new car, new household appliances, a new home in a new subdivision, new clothes, vacation trips. Gratitude means a pair of shoes for a child, food for a family, money to pay the doctor bill, the light and heat bills, to keep the family car running. Gratitude means a child on a mission, a calling in the Church, the payment of tithes and offerings, service to others, the healing of a loved one. Circumstances under which people live vary widely, but not the necessity of feeling and expressing gratitude for every blessing. There are, however, trials and tribulations, heartaches, sickness, even partings from loved ones. It takes great faith to be grateful for such experiences; the human soul cannot, at times, rise spontaneously in gratitude. Yet one knows that experiences are given as a testing, Volume 51 November 1964 Number 11 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Gratitude and that this life is to prove the individual. As one looks back over a time of dire distress, often the good which emerged can be traced, although at the time it seemed impossible to find it. It may be long afterwards before gratitude fills the soul. The Lord decreed, ''In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."' This may be viewed as a curse — forcing men to work hard, or it may be viewed with gratitude as an opportunity to work. The understanding and attitude of the individual make the difference. A mother may work long hours in homemaking, disciplining children, encouraging them, serving them, cleaning, sewing, cooking, nursing, gardening — at the end of the day, however, her gratitude and satisfaction well up to the Lord for work well done, and the ability to perform the duties which devolve upon her, a sign of a noble soul, according to Aesop. Almost everyone needs practice in cultivating and expressing gratitude, in searching out and acknowledging the good both in tribulations and blessings. As one approaches an attitude of gratitude for all things, one reaches nearer the avowal of the Savior ''Not my will, Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith 827 but thine, be done."' —M. C. S. = | Notes to the Field Relief Society Lessons on Talking Book Records Again Available for the Sightless The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department for the Aid of the Sightless has prepared on talking book records the Relief Society Study Courses for October 1964 to May 1965. These courses include theology, the visiting teacher messages, work meeting discussions, literature, and social science. These recordings have been prepared for the use of the blind only and will be sent free to any blind person desiring them. Requests should be sent to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department for the Aid of the Sightless, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84111. Picture Kits for Theology Lessons Available A picture kit for use as a visual aid in presenting the theology lessons for 1964-65 is available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, price $1.00, plus 10c for postage. The kit consists of pictures of the home of John Johnson, Hiram, Ohio; the home of John Tanner, Bolton, New York; Adam-ondi-Ahman; temple lot at Independence, Missouri; the first First Presidency of the Church; the First Presidency 1901- 1910; William W. Phelps; Hyrum Smith: President Joseph Fielding Smith; President David O. McKay. The picture kit prepared for the 1963-64 theology lessons is also available at the Deseret Book Company for the same price. The pictures included in this kit will be found useful also for the continuing lessons of the theology course. The kit contains the following pictures: The Prophet Joseph Smith, Newel K. Whitney, Lorenzo Snow, Wilford Woodruff, Orson Hyde, President Joseph F. Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Frederick G. Williams, and Edward Partridge. 828 Ramona W. Cannon RECENTLY in Bogota, Colombia, South America, your columnist had the pleasure of meeting SENORA INES DE MONTANA of the staff of The Spectator, a daily newspaper with a national circulation. She and her executivehusband had both written for the paper, and when he suddenly died, she felt that she could never write again. ''We always went over each other's work," she said, ''and discussed so many things. It was not respectable for girls to go to college, so he was my university." She finally forced herself back to work and is now reputed ''the best woman journalist in Colombia." She believes in the power of the press for good, and has been of invaluable help in causes such as the training and employing of the physically handicapped. The international organization of Alcoholics Anonymous recently cited her at a public meeting for her help. Mrs. Montana mentioned a visit of hers to Salt Lake City. "'It merits its reputation as the cleanest city in the United States,'"' she wrote. In conversation, this warm, charming, courageous woman smiled and said, '"'And those Mormons — no coffee, no tea, no tobacco, no liquor!'' NANCY LADY ASTOR, born in Virginia, who became the first woman to sit in Great Britain's Parliament, died in a London suburb, May 2, a few days before her eighty-fifth birthday. Elected to the House of Commons to succeed her husband when he was elevated to the House of Lords, she served for twenty-five years. Her last public appearance was eighteen months ago. Witty and sharp-tongued, Lady Astor fought for many causes, principally women's advancement and everybody's abstinence from liquor. MRS. OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, of Salt Lake City, author of thirty-five published books, and for many years a newspaper woman and writer of magazine articles, has been named Woman of Achievement of the Year by the National Federation of Press Women. MRS. ORA PATE STEWART, author, poet and lecturer, recently won two national awards sponsored by the National League of American Pen Women. One was first prize for her Book of Remembrance in the national genealogy contest of the organization. The other was second prize for her entry, "Moment of Truth,'"' in the humorous verse department. MRS. MAUDE B. BURNELL, ninetythree, of Portland, Maine, as chairman of the East Baldwin Branch of the American Red Cross, was the dynamic and successful leader in the 1964 fund campaign, wherein her group raised 200 per cent of its quota. ''Grandma" Burnell has now resigned her position in Red Cross volunteer service, explaining ''My legs just aren't what they used to be." DR. EDITH SANDS heads Long Island University's Business and Financial Department. In preparation for her book How to Select Executive Personnel (Reinholt, New York), she talked and sent questionnaires to eighty-two American business leaders. Only four per cent of the nation's executives are women, though women make up one third of the nation's labor force. The National Manpower Council learned through research that women are as capable as men of high achievements in technical and scientific fields. 829 the Home inside and out Hal Rumel Grace for God's Bounty Ethel Jacobson This food, dear Lord, Bless, gracious Lord, Will sustain us in health Orchard and field, Culled from your bounty — And all the goodness The wide-flung wealth They richly yield. Of grain and fruit And we who offer And vine and seed, Our thanks to you Each ripe in its time Are your loving children. To fill our need. Bless us, too. 830 Melba Christensen BASIC SWEET DOUGH 1 c. Milk or dered milk plus % C. Granulated sugar hed flour (sifted) % c. Powde water 4 c. (about) enric cooled to lukewarm. D and til it springs bac 2 eggs - beat un i poard. 1, Dissolve yeast 2. Add eges, salt, add 1 c. More il bubbles form on Ww d with a damp bulk in a grease 90°F). Dough can be shaped after on oth, and knead in as much of the d canvas oF d into desired yoll shapes. Filled rolls shouid towel in a warm pl ched down for sec remainin: 5, Bake © be baked at 375° R CHRISTMAS TREE FILLING FO Boil together for 1 minute: Y tsp. Cinnamon 1 c. Raisins, ground 1 c. Brown sugar 831 1 cake compressed yeast lc. 2 c. Apples, finely chopped 1 tsp. Salt My C. Shortening Y tsp. Salt NOVEMBER 1964 1. Roll out % recipe of Basic Sweet Dough which is ready for shaping on lightly floured board or cloth into rectangle about 12 x 16 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet so that the length of dough goes across width of cookie sheet. 2. Brush center of rectangle with melted butter; sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Spread center of rectangle with filling. 3. Bring upper corners of dough down to meet the center of the lower edge. You will have "extra" dough at the base of tree. Roll vertical edges of center back and clip rolled edges. Gently stretch tree so that it fills cookie sheet. 4. Trim dough from lower edge saving half for trunk. Roll dough to form trunk. Clip the outside edges of tree with long diagonal cuts. Twist to form branches. 5. Cover with a damp cloth and let rise in a warm place until double in size and bake at 375°F. About 20-30 minutes. When baked, frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with cherries, citron, and nuts. FRENCH CHRISTMAS LACE — Make Basic Sweet Dough. Let rise twice and during second rising prepare the filling. FILLING: Boil together for one minute: 2 c. Apples, finely chopped % tsp. Salt 1 c. Raisins, ground % tsp. Cinnamon, ground 1 c. Dark brown sugar, firmly packed 1. Cool. Then roll out % of Basic Sweet Dough into 14 x 8 inches. Gently transfer to greased cookie sheet. 2. Spread filling down center in strip about 4" wide. At each side of filling make cuts 2" apart, making cuts 2" long into dough. This makes 7 strips on each side. 3. Cross alternate strips across center filled section. On last strips, tuck under and seal. Cover with damp cloth and let rise until double in bulk. Bake 30-35 minutes at 375°F. Frost with Snowtop Frosting. Garnish with Marachino cherries, nuts, and green and red citron. CROWN ROLLS %2 recipe of Basic Sweet Dough 1 tsp. Cinnamon, ground % Cc. Melted shortening Ya c. Nuts, finely chopped % c. Brown sugar, pecan halves firmly packed seedless raisins 1. Use % recipe of Basic Sweet Dough. When dough is double in bulk, punch down. 2. Shape dough into walnut size balls. Dip balls in melted shortening and roll in mixture of brown sugar, Cinnamon, and chopped nuts. 832 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT 3. Arrange layer of balls in greased 9" tube pan; sprinkle with pecan halves and raisins. 4, Fill bottom of pan, then add another layer of balls until you have the pan one half full, and sprinkle with more pecan halves. 5. Cover with damp cloth and let rise to rim of pan (angel food cake tin) about 40-50 minutes. 6. Bake at 375°F. Until browned, about 35 minutes. Turn out of pan immediately and cool on cake rack. Serve hot or cold. SWEDISH TEA RING Roll out % recipe of Basic Dough about 16" x 12". Spread with butter, then with citrus filling. Roll up like jelly roll and place on greased cookie sheet in a circle, then cut with scissors and twist. Citrus Filling — Mix together: grated rind of 3 oranges grated rind of one grapefruit 1 c. Granulated sugar CINNAMON ROLLS — BEAR CLAWS — BUTTERFLIES Roll out dough, brush with butter, shake on sugar and cinnamon and a handful of raisins, roll up and seal edges. Butter a string and put under roll, cross, and pull. This cuts without mashing. To make butterflies, cut cinnamon rolls about 2", then take a wooden spoon handle and press center down. Bear claws, cut 3 slits. DATE-NUT FILLING 1-1/3 c. Pitted dates (finely cut) 1/2 c. Water 1/2 c. Granulated sugar 1/3 c. Walnuts, chopped 1. Add water, sugar, and dates; cook over low heat until completely blended and thickened. 2. Add nuts. Cool. Use as spread on rolled dough. GLAZES To glaze the top of breads or rolls, use either the egg white or yolk with a teaspoon of water added. The whole egg may be beaten slightly and used also. Use a pastry brush to apply just before rolls are placed in the oven. SNOWTOP FROSTING Y% c. Powdered sugar Y% tsp. Extract 2 tsp. Water Mix into smooth paste. 833 A. Welcome Cohnxr1stimas Coift Does it embarrass you to have to dig and delve among the necessities you carry in your purse to find your pen, or your pass, or your address book, while an amused onlooker watches and waits? Then make yourself a "Tydee" to do away with such embarrassment. For materials, you will need only some smooth cardboard, a small piece of felt yardage, black or a gay color, and sewing thread. First decide on the size that will fit easily into a purse. (About 7x5¥% inches will fit into most purses, or the Tydee can be made longer and narrower as desired.) Cut a piece of cardboard the desired shape, and try it in the purse. There should be an inch or so space around it, at least. Now lay the cardboard on the felt and cut with pinking shears two pieces (for the back and front of the Tydee) about one-half inch larger than the cardboard. Or you may fold the felt and cut it double, but in this case lay the cardboard even with the folded edge, which will be the bottom. Consider the contents of your purse, plan carefully, and decide what size pocket will fit each item. Allow enough room, so they will not fit too tightly in the pockets. Don't cut separate pockets for each of your trinkets, because you can more easily cut a strip which reaches from side to side, and divide it into pockets, as desired, 834 Vilate R. McAllister by stitching up and down between them. Mark off the width of each pocket and stitch the strip to the Tydee along the lower edge. Then divide into pockets with up and down stitching, being sure to backstitch firmly at the top, so the strip will not come loose. Narrow compartments would accommodate such items as lipstick, chapstick, bobby pins, nail file, etc. A wider strip could be divided to hold address book, pen, pencil, or note pad. A place for a comb can be made by sewing a 1% inch deep strip across the top of the Tydee. On the back of the Tydee other pockets can be _ stitched. Two compartments about the same size will make containers for the driver's license, personal cards, tickets, library cards, glasses, checkbook, or wallet. Decide which articles you need most frequently, because, unless your purse is large, you cannot make enough pockets for everything. After the pocket compartments for both sides have been stitched, sew up the Tydee % inch from the edge on three sides, pockets outside, of course. Insert the cardboard you used for measuring as stiffening, and sew the remaining edge. Cardboard may have to be trimmed a little, if you did not leave enough seam allowance. Now fill the pockets, and see THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT —- PO? POrwmwu YU wy a i a i SUGGESTED DIMENSIONS AND POCKET COMPARTMENTS FOR "TYDEE" PURSE ORGANIZER 7 x 5% inches how handy it is to have everything in order. You may attach your coin purse to the upper part of your bag lining, or to the Tydee, with a bit of ribbon, so it will be easier to find, and less easy to lose. Your handkerchief and the few other objects left out of the Tydee will not be a problem. If you have more than one purse the size of the Tydee or larger, you can change the Tydee from purse to purse with ease. If you have a purse too shallow for your pen and pencil to stand upright, you can sew strips near the top of your Tydee in a horizontal position, and leave them open at the end. The pen will slide easily into such a pocket, and will not get lost in the bottom of your purse. When you get yourself supplied, remember your friends and relatives who would thank you for such a thoughtful, if inexpensive, gift. 835 Colorful Helt Pictures June F. Krambule For making an unusual and decorative picture, Mrs. John Fishburn of Ogden, Utah, took two pieces of plyboard, one-half yard of burlap, afew feet of screendoor beading, and several small squares of felt, put them together, and the colorful result was a pair of pictures that are something to crow about. The pictures represent weathervane roosters, made for the budget price of about $1.55 and designed to accent the Fishburn's earlyAmerican multi-purpose room. Mrs. Fishburn details the project this way: First secure two 11" by 16" (or any other desired size) pieces of plyboard and burlap. The burlap is stretched tightly across the front of the plyboard and glued securely to the back. The mitered corners may need to be tacked. Next, select in dimensions needed for the size and number of pictures you are making, about six squares of felt found in most department and _ fabric stores. These should include black felt for the weathervane, red or orange for the rooster's comb, and a variety of yellow, green, and brown shades that blend together. These, of course, may be varied to suit your own decorating color scheme. 836 To trace the patterns directly from the design given here, would make a very small rooster. However, it is not a difficult process, using this design as a guide, to outline and make your own pattern of each separate piece, keeping in mind the proportions represented in the illustration. Each separate piece of the pattern, when outlined to your satisfaction, can then be traced on a fairly heavy paper. When each piece is numbered correctly, the patterns are ready to be transferred to the felt for the cutting process. Pin the pattern securely on the felt and cut out the felt accordingly with very sharp scissors. Glue the felt pieces to the burlap in the order numbered. Dotted lines indicate sections of the pattern covered by pieces placed on later. Letters suggest the colors that may be used, and the numbers indicate the sequence in which the pieces of felt are glued on the burlap. Narrow' screendoor beading which may be found at almost any building supply store is carefully glued or tacked in place, two inches in from the edge, to give a framing effect. Good luck with your roosters. Cut carefully, glue neatly, and your friends will crow about your pictures, too. THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Pattern designed and used by Mrs. John Fishburn to make colorful felt pictures for less than a dollar each. Numbers indicate order in which pieces are placed on the burlap-covered board. Color Code: Rred, Oorange, G-gold, Grgreen, 8 - black, Br - brown. 837 "Little... Acts of Kindness and of Love'' Elsie C. Carroll In borrowing a line from Wordsworth for my title, I purposely omitted two words. He wrote "little, nameless, unremembered, acts of kindness and of love." Such acts as I am thinking of may be unremembered, and nameless to the persons who performed them, but they are long remembered, identified, and cherished by the recipient. My life has been made richer and happier by innumerable such acts. Only today I answered my doorbell to find a pretty little girl with a box of fresh picked raspberries a neighbor had sent — berries from the few bushes in her back yard which her family could well have relished. This family knows the joy of sharing delicacies with others. On last Valentine's day the children of a family who had moved into their new home across the street from me a short time before, and with whom I had not really become acquainted, brought me a beautiful valentine lunch — including heart-shaped sandwiches, cookies, and salad, and with a cute little valentine on which they (or their remarkable mother) had written: 'When you need someone to do errands, call us.'"' This was followed by their names and telephone number. That was the first of many such acts that give the true meaning to the word neighbor. One time when I was returning to Utah from a stay in the East with my two small children, my little daughter became sick. She needed my full attention. Her three-year-old brother wanted to run up and down the aisle and to annoy the passengers generally. I was beside myself with anxiety and embarrassment. This had not been going on long when a pretty woman came to my very apparent need. She captured my son and took him to her own seat in the other end of the car. During a long afternoon and evening she entertained him, relieving me of an embarrassing situation and keeping him happy. When we reached my destination she helped me off the train into the hands of waiting relatives. A life-long regret is that in thanking her for such a wonderful kindness, I did not learn her name or address. But I shall never forget her. She remains in my memory as a lovely angel. Hers was not a little act of kindness; it was too big to be measured. Another act of similar dimension came as a blessing years later. I was returning to my home after my daughter's marriage, and her departure for her honeymoon. My son was away. Neither one would ever be at home again, except for visits. I had adjusted as well as a woman can to years of widowhood, but now a new adjustment faced me. It was dusk when I drove into my garage. The house was dark, and lonely. It could never be a real home again, it seemed to me at that desolate moment. It took me some time to find courage to walk to the house. I contemplated going to the home of a relative or friend — at least for this one night. But, I realized it would be as hard the next night, or the next. It was a new life I was facing, and it was up to me how I faced it. Finally, I unlocked the door and went inside. I turned on a light and started toward my bedroom where I intended to throw myself on my bed and release the pent-up tears that were choking me. I felt that I could weep forever. My doorbell rang. Reluctantly I answered it. There stood my friend Nellie. Before I could speak she said: "Here I am with my nightgown. I knew how hard this first night with Helen and Charlie both gone would be. Tomorrow will be a new day, and the sun will be shining. But I didn't want you to be alone tonight." A little act of kindness and of love. No! It was a big act, and it helped more than Nellie could know. She may have forgotten it. But her act. With so many others that have blessed and brightened my life, will never be unremembered by me. 838 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Crocheting Is a Fine Art for Callie Haggard Mrs. Callie C. Haggard, Laveen, Arizona, has often looked at her crochet hook and her balls of thread, and considered a multitude of opportunities for creating designs of artistry and usefulness. She declares that her handicraft hobbies keep her busy and happy, and these qualities are evident in the many exquisite articles which Mrs. Haggard presents as gifts to her relatives and friends. She has made hundreds of crocheted doilies and dish towel sets, embroidered pillowslips (with crocheted edgings), and many smaller decorative items. She has made many quilts for her children and grandchildren, and the making of quilts, when Mrs. Haggard was a young woman, paid for piano lessons for her daughters. She has made many articles for Relief Society bazaars and has instructed groups of young women in handicraft skills. For fifty years she has been a faithful visiting teacher. Her progeny number nine children, forty-two grandchildren, and seventy-nine great-grandchildren. She refers to her loved ones as the crown of her long and happy life. 839 The Turn of the Wheel Synopsis: Elsa Breinholt meets Clay Knowlton, an American sergeant stationed with the United States Army in Heidelberg. He is a member of the English-speaking branch of the Church. In her own branch a recently arrived member is Karl Ernst, who accompanies her and her mother and sister home to Sunday dinner. On the following Sunday Elsa asked Brother Meyer if she might attend Sunday School upstairs. "T am anxious to have every opportunity to improve my English," she said. 'Maria will play the organ in here." "For today — if you wish," he agreed. "'But we must not lose you altogether. We need everyone we have — and more." "Yes, I know. And I promise B40 wha, nN Mabel Harmer CHAPTER 2 that it will be only for this once. At least, it will not be very often." Brother Meyer answered her beguiling smile with a fatherly pat on the shoulder and turned to greet other members of the branch. As Elsa climbed the stairway she asked herself, "Now, am I entirely honest in persuading myself that I am coming up here to better my English?" Not quite able to answer, she took a seat at the rear and looked around. There were some few whom she knew but many who were strangers. The military personnel of the United States Army base, with their families, made up the greater part of the congregation. There were also a few tourists and some missionaries, tourmg Europe on their way home from various countries. She did not see Clay Knowlton and had to acknowledge a slight pang of disappointment. She also had to admit that, if the improving of her English had been her primary objective in coming up, it had not been her entire aim. She was both pleased and surprised, therefore, to meet him on the steps outside, after the service. "So, there you are!" he exclaimed. "Here I come to your Sunday School especially to meet you — and you are not there." Elsa's cheeks colored. She might have convinced herself that she had gone upstairs with no ulterior motives, but he would most certainly believe otherwise. She was rather glad that Maria joined them at that moment and asked with outrageous candor, "Did your friend sleep in again today?" "No. He has gone to Holland for the week end. He claimed that he had to see the acres of tulips in bloom, whether I was left to walk or not. I did manage to get a ride with one of the other families, however. One of these days I shall have my own car. Then you and I will take a long ride wherever you wish." "Good! I hope that it will be very soon." "No more than do I," agreed Clay heartily. "I see that my people are ready to leave now, so I'll have to hurry. See you all later." He left, and Karl, who had been talking with Brother Meyer, but THE TURN OF THE WHEEL constantly casting glances their way, came over to join them. Sister Breinholt, who had been visiting with other friends, also hurried over. '"'You will come home with us to dinner, I hope?" she said to Karl. "Thank you very much. I would surely like to," he replied, "but I have been invited home with the Meyers today." "That is too bad." Her face showed genuine disappointment. "Some other time, then. And how is the work coming?" "Fine, thank you," Karl replied. "I am going to be kept very busy... Which is just what I wanted." The three said their goodbyes and left for home. "I like Brother Knowlton the best,' remarked Maria as they walked along. ''He looks just like a movie actor. Maybe his hair could be a bit more red, or golden, or something. But his eyes are nice and blue and he is so tall." "The best of whom?" asked Elsa, pretending innocence. "The best of your two young men, of course. Kar] is nice, too, and he has a gorgeous smile. But Clay is the most fun. Don't you think so?" "T hadn't even thought about it," answered Elsa coolly. 'And they are certainly not my young men." "Then you had _ best start thinking," reproved her mother. "A fine young man like Karl will not be left unnoticed for very long. There are too many single girls around." "But none so beautiful as Elsa," said Maria complacently. "If he prefers them, that is up to him," smiled Elsa, putting her a" 841 NOVEMBER 1964 arm around her younger sister's shoulders. A few days later, as she was preparing to leave the shop, she was surprised — and pleased — to have Clay drop in again. "I want one of those cute little Hummels," he said. "It's my sister's birthday. You make the choice. I'm sure that you can do it much better than I." "Thank you. This one is a great favorite," and she held up the figurine of the two children under an umbrella. "That's fine — for a starter. I'm going to send as many as I can, one at a time. Jean is fourteen and something of a doll herself.""' He walked around the shop, looking at different items. Holding up a small clock, he said, "T understand that next Monday is a holiday around here, Easter Monday." "Yes." Elsa took the clock and wound it up so that the cuckoo would perform. "Then, how about going on a boat trip up the river with me? I am told there are some lovely medieval towns where one can stop for lunch, and that the whole trip is very beautiful." Elsa hesitated only a moment. There was no really good reason why she shouldn't go. It had been a long time since she had enjoyed a treat like this, and it would be an almost perfect way to spend the holiday. "All right," she nodded. 'Shall we leave early? Then we could go as far as Hirschorn and have plenty of time to visit the castle, as well as having our lunch." "It sounds great," agreed Clay. 842 "T'll call for you about ten. I have my own hack now." "Hack?" repeated Elsa, puzzled. "Car. Automobile. One of the fellows who was leaving to go back to the States sold me his." When she arrived home Elsa told her plans to her mother with some diffidence. While Sister Breinholt was not enthusiastic about the outing, neither did she disapprove and even offered to pack a lunch. "Thank you, no," Elsa replied. "We'll stop for lunch either at Hirschorn or Eberbach. That's part of the fun of going." It was a beautiful, bright day and so many people were taking advantage of the holiday that every chair on the deck of the pleasure boat was filled. All along the green, sloping banks of the river were families with their blankets spread on the grass and their heavy food hampers close by. Elsa thought that she had never seen such a peaceful, lovely scene. As they entered the first lock, and the boat slowly rose, Clay said, "I've never been on a river like this before. Out West our streams seem to rush down as if they were in a hurry to get somewhere." "Is everything in America in such a hurry?" she asked. "Oh, no. As a matter of fact, I doubt if we work nearly as hard as you do. You should come over and see." "I am going to." She spoke as if it were quite taken for granted. "Good! That's a fine idea. Do you plan to go right away?" "No. I wish that I could. But I have no means to go now. However, I am saving my money, and it will not take too much longer. Then, of course, I must have a sponsor." "That will be easy."' Clay made it sound as if it were a sponsor for an outdoor picnic. "Anyway, I imagine it will. My folks would be glad to sponsor you. I'll write at once. I suppose you don't happen to have any friends or relatives over there?" "Relatives, yes — but not in Utah. That is one reason I am so anxious to go. My grandfather went many years ago when he first joined the Church. Two uncles went also. They have farms in Idaho and have done very well. Their children have had fine educations, and all are prominent in their communities. The grandparents are dead now. My own father was the only one in the family who did not go. He died in the war. I feel very deeply now that I should go — and work to bring over Mother and Maria when I can." "Good," Clay nodded his approval. '"'And do they also feel this way?" "Mother, no. She is quite willing to stay here. She loves Heidelberg. She loves Germany. Especially now that there is work for everyone. Maria is like me. She also has the wanderlust. And, since there are only the three of us, Mother would go if we did." They settled back in their deck chairs to watch the passing scene as the boat moved slowly up the river. "This is like something out of a storybook," Clay remarked, "to be floating past medieval towns and ancient casTHE TURN OF THE WHEEL tles with a golden-haired princess." "Who tomorrow will turn back into a shopgirl,"' smiled Elsa. "No, that is merely a disguise. She will still be the princess, merely waiting for her knight to come and claim her." Elsa, with little imagination, could almost believe it was true — especially when she looked up at the old castle on the top of the hill. Ordinary mortals could not possibly have belonged in such a romantic setting. THEY decided to stop at Hirschorn and perhaps take a later boat on to Eberbach, or save that trip for another day. As they walked ashore Clay remarked, "This place looks so interesting that we may decide not to go back at all. We may just decide to move into the castle and take over. Perhaps you are one of the descendants, and the castle really belongs to you anyway." "If we do move in, we'll be awfully lonely," she replied. ""The last of the Hirschorn family died out nearly 300 years ago. At least, the last son died. There was a feud between the members of the Hirschorn family and the lords of Handschusheim. Both families were fearful that their lines would die out and hoped for the birth of sons. The last two fought a duel in Heidelberg, and that was the end of their families — at least as far as males were concerned." "That may be. But I still think that you must have a valid claim. Shall we go up and see if Elsa is carved on one of the great wooden doors? And I rather think 843 NOVEMBER 1964 there will be a great key hanging by the side with a notice that reads, For Elsa." "Then let us go by all means, but — " as she turned towards the shops — ''after lunch. I doubt if we will find a table set in the banquet room labeled For Elsa." They walked through the old town with its quaint, half-timbered houses, until they found a cafe with an outdoor eating space in a garden. The food was both substantial and savory but, with their healthy young appetites, they would have enjoyed plain boiled beef and cabbage. Afterward, they sat in the shade and talked, forgetting that there was a key on the castle door waiting for Elsa, until the proprietor reminded them by taking the cloth from the table and shaking it vigorously, almost in their faces. They were too happy to mind this slight discourtesy and went away, climbing the hill towards the castle. They went as far as the ramparts, only vestiges of which now remained. "I think. Perhaps that we should turn back," said Elsa. "I'm not sure what time we can get a boat. And we should reach home _ before dark." "Then you will never know if the key still waits for the princess," said Clay, shading his eyes and looking upward, as if he might determine even from that distance. "On the other hand, it will give us a wonderful excuse to come again." "Yes. And if the key has hung there for 300 years, it will stay for a few more weeks — or even years," Elsa smiled. 844 THEY walked back down the hill and soon afterwards caught a boat. There were some students aboard, one with an accordion, and all with vigorous voices. Many of those aboard, including Elsa, joined in the songs. Clay sang along in English, if he happened to know the song. When they came forth with "Du, du liebst mir im Herzen," he was able to join in with his own version of German. "Our glee club sang that in school," he explained. "Only I didn't appreciate it at the time." The sun had set behind the western hills by the time they arrived back in Heidelberg. The last golden rays lit up the towers of the great castle on the hill and the Old Bridge. "T could sure fall in love with this town," said Clay, as the boat drew up to the landing dock. "Tt's no wonder you read so much romantic stuff about it — like the Student Prince, for instance. Do you suppose that the girl Kathy married someone here, after the prince was shipped out, and that she was one of your ancestors?" "No," Elsa replied gravely. "T'm a princess of the House of Hirschorn — remember?" "Sure." Clay took her arm to guide her up the steps. "But that was earlier. When the fortunes fell, your great-grandmother came here and was a waitress at the inn. Are you really serious about going to America?" "Really. I am quite serious." "Okay. We'll get going on it. Since you speak English so well there should be no trouble in getting work." As he left her at the house, he said, "Auf wiedersehen — and thanks for one of the loveliest days in all my life."' ''And mine," she replied. 'Auf wiedersehen." She ran up the steps, and when she entered the house was surprised to see Karl sitting at the supper table with her mother and Maria. "Hello," she said, slipping off her sweater and joining them at the table. '"Aren't you eating awfully late?" "Yes," agreed her mother. "We have been working as long as the light lasted. Karl has been helping us to clean up the garden and put in some tomato plants. He has been working here all day." Her tone implied '"'While you have been gallivanting off up the river." "How good of you," said Elsa smiling. 'You must come and help us eat all the tomatoes.... If they grow, that is,'' she added mischievously. "They will grow," Karl answered emphatically. "That I promise. They must grow if I am to help you eat them. I will watch over them like a fend parent." ' Kart left soon after they were through eating, saying that he would look in after his plants very often. No sooner was he out of earshot than Sister Breinholt said, with a deep sigh of satisfaction, "My, but that is a fine young man!"' "And handsome," added Maria. "Of course, he isn't quite so tall as Clay, but he has beautiful hair — so thick and almost black. And he has a wonderful smile." THE TURN OF THE WHEEL As her mother looked to her for confirmation, Elsa agreed heartily. 'Yes, he is indeed. I hope that he does well in his work here. And he will surely be a great help in the branch." "All day he worked in the garden," said Sister Breinholt, nodding vigorously. 'And what do you think! He has promised to build us a small greenhouse. Then we can have vegetables and fruits early in the season. He thinks that he can do it for about two hundred marks. That would mean only a little more than fifteen dollars from each one of us." Elsa hated to throw a damper on her enthusiasm, but she knew that this was the time. She drew a deep breath and said, "I'm sorry, Mother, but I cannot help. I am going to save as much as I can. In the fall I may have a chance to go to America." "Go to America!" exclaimed her mother, as if such adventures were completely unknown. "Why _ in the world would you want to do that?" Elsa sighed. They had been over this ground many times before. But before it had been only a dream. Now it could easily become a reality. "You know why I want to go. Because there is opportunity there for young people. Our grandfather left everything here to go over and help build up the Church and the State. His sons and grandsons have reaped all the benefits so far. I would like to share in it, too. I think that he would like to have me share in it." "But you have so much here," her mother went on incredulous- 845 NOVEMBER 1964 ly, '"'a good job — nice friends — a good home." "Working in a shop is not such a wonderful job. And it will never be any better. I have no other prospects." "But perhaps you will get married," her mother persisted. "So pretty a girl as you is bound to get married. So far there have not been many young men in the branch. But now there is Karl...." "Mother!" Elsa interrupted. "You haven't the slightest notion that Karl may be interested in me. Perhaps he has a girl back home who is waiting for him to send for her." That was a possibility that Sister Breinholt had not considered. She was taken back and speechless for a moment. But for a moment only. "No. I can tell from the way he looks at you. Besides, he would not dig in the garden all day for an old woman like me." That gave her another idea. With an infinitely sad look, she asked, '"Would you leave your mother now that I am growing old?" Elsa laughed and went over to give her a light kiss. "You are not old at all, Mother, and you know it. Anyway, you and Maria may decide that you want to come to America, too." "Indeed we might," agreed Maria. "And I'll pay for your share on the greenhouse. Who knows — I may get your share of interest in the young men who have been wearing our path thin." Elsa put her arms around her sister's shoulders. "I am willing to give you any shares that are mine to give,' she said. 'You already have my old job. You are more than welcome to all else." (To be continued) Time Evelyn Fjeldsted Time is the one great friend of man Drawing back the portals of each day. Previewing man's eternity, Time directs him on his way. Time heals all the wounds of man, Gently veiling every scar; Teaching by experience, The way of peace — the way of war. Time, the truest friend of man, Though seeming harsh, is always kind. Even memories too keen to bear, Are dimmed by time in every mind. 846 FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Directions for Submitting Notes From the F ield Tue Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors or presidents. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanists, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be visible. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. 847 NOVEMBER 1964 Puget Sound Stake (Washington) Conducts ''Friendship Fair'' May 22, 1964 This display of lovely quilts and other articles of handicraft from the Bremerton Second Ward, is representative of the many booths and displays which made this "Fair" an outstanding event, long to be remembered in Puget Sound Stake. Ethel B. Whiting, President, Puget Sound Stake Relief Society, reports: "We sent out and personally distributed 1,000 invitations, not just in Tacoma; but all over the stake, with the help of the presidents and visiting teachers. We had a fifty-minute program at one o'clock in the afternoon, and repeated it at seven o'clock in the evening, with a member of the stake presidency speaking at both programs. A group of fifty Singing Mothers from six wards sang 'Why a Singing Mother Sings' and 'Beside Still Waters.' A panel of four sisters described Relief Society in an appealing and instructive way by means of a question and answer demonstration. The dramatization was written by Violet Nerdin, stake social science class leader. "The cultural hall was beautifully decorated with ferns and spring flowers to represent a garden path. The booths were arranged around the hall, and work displays were placed on tables on the stage, with others below the stage. Two sisters demonstrated cake making at one table, and two more showed how to make gifts out of felt from simple patterns. Beautiful original oil paintings and pastels brought many comments. The handwork was varied and outstanding. In the patio, small tables, covered with blue and gold cloths, were grouped. Two large serving tables were arranged most attractively with punch, cookies, open-faced sandwiches, and fruit breads. There were about 350 in attendance." Mount Graham Stake, Lordsburg Ward (New Mexico) Relief Society Honors First Executive Officers, May 5, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Lillie May Malone, First Counselor; Mabel A. Lines, President; Edith B. Bradberry, Second Counselor; Fannie A. Hill, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right, present officers: Helen G. Richins, First Counselor; Betty Joe B. Farnsworth, President; Maxene R. Jones, Second Counselor. Sister Hill, in the front row, is presently serving as secretary-treasurer. Millie Kelly, President, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports: "This special event honored the first executive officers and also commemorated the thirty-ninth birthday of the Lordsburg Relief Society, which was organized May 5, 1925. This was the first time these four sisters had been together since March 1926. What a wonderful reunion! "The program, including a short history of the time these four women served together, was presented by Ruth B. Barnes of Safford, Arizona. A song 'Teach Me, Lord,' was beautifully rendered by the Singing Mothers, and a poem composed by Bishop Allen A. Hill was read by him. A skit 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand' was presented by Helen G. Richins, Grace T. Wright, Louise K. Lytle, Lola D. Richardson, June H. Hill, Elna M. Pace, with Ora P. Nelson at the piano. "Another highlight of the evening was the reviewing of a book on the history of the Lordsburg Relief Society since its organization, complete with pictures of every executive officer, and all other officers and class leaders, except eleven. Several group pictures were also shown. The material was collected and compiled by Fannie A. Hill. Stake Relief Society President Millie Kelly and three other members of the board were present. Refreshments of dainty homemade cookies, decorated mints, frozen banana punch, and nuts were served." 848 NOTES FROM THe FIELD 849 NOVEMBER 1964 West Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, January 25, 1964 At the right in the front row: Cleone Jones, chorister (in dark dress); at the right in the fourth row, at the piano (in dark dress): Sarah Stolworthy, organist. Margaret L. Jones, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports that 112 Singing Mothers participated in this chorus. Andes Mission (South America) First Relief Society Presidency Organized February 1964 Left to right: Clara Vasques, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary Davidson, work meeting leader; Dina Santillan, Work Director Counselor; Lilly Rodriquez, President; Edith Barrani, Education Counselor. Sister Rodriquez reports: "The Andes Mission is proud to announce the organization of its first mission Relief Society presidency. The new presidency, composed of local members, is responsible for directing the twenty-six organizations throughout Peru. The Church is growing rapidly in Peru, and Relief Society now has 407 members. As a new presidency, we are delighted to have our own local organization and are very pleased with the response of our members. "The convention of the Relief Society of the Andes Mission was held the 11th-12th of February, 1964, in the mission home. 'There were thirty-one sisters in attendance, representing the districts and independent branches. The discussion presented during the first session was on visual aids to help the sisters develop their lessons. During the second session the lessons for the new year were presented, after which a workshop was held, where each sister was able to present, or to help present a two-and-a-half-minute talk, using visual aids. The new literature lessons were presented by Yolanda Abregu, who wrote the lessons, which are on the Peruvian literature. The third session was a planned workday meeting. For the fashion show in the evening, the local sisters and their children modeled clothing that could be made in work meetings, introducing skirts and shirts with the Inca motif. During the last session discussions were presented for the presidents and secretaries separately. The concluding session was an inspirational testimony meeting in which the spiritual feeling among the sisters was bonded." Sister Vivian W. Nicolaysen is Relief Society supervisor of the Andes Mission. Idaho Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Conference March 8, 1964 Standing, back to the piano (in black dresses): chorister Helen Thomas and organist Karma Kunz; at the right (in dark dresses): Thelma B. Tovey of the General Board of the Primary Association and Irene W. Buehner of the General Board of Relief Society; standing back of Sister Tovey and Sister Buehner is Arlene T. Torgesen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society: Sister Torgesen reports: "All seven wards of our stake are represented in this group and nine members of the stake presidency and board. This picture was taken after our stake conference in March. The music by these lovely singers added much to the beauty and spirituality of the meetings. They are invited to sing many times as ward groups and they sang at the Relief Society closing social and friendship day of Idaho Stake, in June 1964." 85) iss: Pt] 3 7 4? R p.; e & ay - - ~ v ra 4 "s. EJ mes 4) ¢ beled el week } '.; p. Ov we b r + F a 5 f + ye 806 Pave Q1314 JHL WOUd SILON i < i % * A & NOVEMBER 1964 Grand Junction Stake (Colorado) Relief Society Presents ''A Festival of Arts" April 10, 1964 Betty Christensen and Eudona Ficklin, left to right, are seen displaying a picture frame painted white, with flowers arranged on a blue velvet background. A tiered satin fruit arrangement and a "marble" centerpiece are also shown in the picture. Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 10, 1964, the Grand Junction Stake Relief Society presented "A Festival of Arts," culminating approximately a year's efforts in handiwork by the sisters of the stake. Work meeting leader Eudona Ficklin and Second Counselor Betty Christensen were responsible for spearheading this project. Over one thousand members and guests thrilled with us as they viewed the festival. The objective was to introduce the purpose and activities of Relief Society to our friends and neighbors through our theme 'Nothing to sell — just something to share.' "The members of the stake Relief Society board welcomed the guests as they entered the cultural hall and explained the 'Relief Society Picture,' which was portrayed by displays from each department in large gold frames. Attractively arranged Relief Society Magazines were presented to interested guests. "Lavender, turquoise, and rose canopied booths captured the eye in a beautiful garden scene, where hundreds of beautiful displays of handiwork were proudly shown. Some of the booths were: 'Stitches of Love' (the clothing display); 'We Did It Over' (new things from old); 'A Hook, a Needle, and a Spool of Thread' (the fancywork booth); 'The Staff of Life' (bakery booth); 'The Cover-Ups' (aprons, of course); 'The Bedtime Story (quilts and pillows). Then there were 'The Knit Shop' and "Talent in Action.' A garden scene was the setting for two lovely mannequins, modeling hand-sewed wedding gowns, and displaying a hand-decorated wedding cake. "To further interest our guests were two authentic and exquisite foreign cookery scenes entitled 'Under the Yum-Yum Tree.' These featured a Hawaiian luau, complete with grass shack and pretty maidens who gave away delicious tidbits; and a Japanese scene. With blossoming cherry trees and a lovely lady cooking sukiyaki on a habachi. "We feel that the Lord certainly blessed us in that so many hearts were stirred — not only in admiration for the creative beauty they saw, but with a desire to know more about the gospel, which is responsible for our wonderful Priesthood-inspired Relief Society." Midvale Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, May 2-3, 1964 Stake chorister Mellisa Beckstead (in white dress) is seated at the right in the front row; the fourth sister at the right of the pulpit is chorister Maxine Allmendinger; and the third sister is Marguerite Wright, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society; standing in the back row at the left is First Counselor Laura Tripp. Sister Wright reports: "Each month at Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special music. Our Cumorah (Spanish) Branch sang in Spanish when they furnished the musical number." B52 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 853 » ntl nied Bakersfield Stake (California) Presents "Treasures of the Home" at Social, May 2, 1964 Standing, left to right, officers of the Taft Ward Relief Society: Joyce Stuker, First Counselor; Maralyn Wood, President; Roberta Booth, Second Counselor; Irene Hoff, Secretary. On the tabletop are painted dish towels, a soap swan, marble jewelry, knitted slippers, a plaque made of ribbon flowers, a chart for herbs, a scrapbook for use in the nursery, made from an old Christmas card album, as well as many other attractive handwork items. Several exquisitely made quilts are displayed in the background. Beryl Lewis, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports this delightful and rewarding event: "We first met in the chapel of our stake center at two o'clock in the afternoon, where a brief introduction to Relief Society "The Singing Mothers sang two numbers, and the drama "'Creation's Masterpiece,' by Leah Frandsen of Glendale Stake was presented. Kay Bell, foreign foods, candy mints, swan soap, Bulgar wheat and its uses, seed pictures, and many other special features. Sara Eagleston, stake work meeting leader, demonstrated ribbon chrysanthemums, and Maude Hutchison of the stake board demonstrated magazine binding. 854 F Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 61 — The Revelation on Priesthood (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:1-42) For First Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To understand the importance of the Priesthood in the salvation of man; the special blessings available to this generation of Priesthood bearers; and the importance of the Priesthood as reflected in its oath and covenant. INTRODUCTION From the spring until the fall of 1832, the Prophet Joseph Smith continued the revision of the Bible. In July the first copy of the Evening and Morning Star was received by him. This brought joy to the Prophet and the saints because they now had a publication in which to present the message of the restoration of the gospel to the world. This publication also served as the printed depository of many revelations since bound copies of the revelations did not come off the press in quantity until 1835. It will be remembered that of the 1833 edition all save a few copies of some of the forms of the unfinished book were destroyed when a Missouri mob destroyed the press upon which it was being printed. This new periodical was also a means through which the saints could answer the false charges which their enemies made against them. During the month of September the elders came in from their missions to report their stewardships. While thus engaged on the 22d and 23d of that month, the Lord opened the mind of the Prophet and gave him a remarkable revelation on Priesthood. NEW JERUSAIL EM a Wo TEMPLE Section 84 begins with the assertion that the Church is to 855 NOVEMBER 1964 gather the Lord's people as predicted by the prophets. Moreover, the gathering place at that time, and also in the future, is the city of New Jerusalem where the saints will stand in the last days. (Verses 1-2.) A prophecy is made concerning the temple which will be erected in that city located in the western boundaries of the State of Missouri, the place already dedicated by the Prophet. In this prediction, the Lord says that the temple upon which his glory would rest would be reared in this generation. (Verses 3-5.) Inasmuch as that temple has not been built within an hundred years of 1832, some members of the Church have wondered about the length of a generation. Although a generation, under certain conditions, is mentioned in The Book of Mormon as an hundred years (Helaman 13:8- 11), the term, under other conditions, refers to an_ indefinite period. For example, Jesus said that it was an evil and adulterous generation that sought after a sign (Matt. 12:39), and in our dispensation the Lord said that "this generation shall have my word through you" (Joseph Smith) (D&C 5:10). From these examples, it is clear that the dispensation of the fulness of times is considered a generation, for the people of our time are still receiving the word of the Lord in the revelations received through Joseph Smith. There is no way of determining the number of years meant in Section 84, verses 4 and 5. There are two things to be known, however. First, that the Lord has said through his Prophet that the 856 temple will be built in this generation, and second, that from the time this announcement was made, the leaders of the Church have never departed from the Lord's intention. PRIESTHOOD GENEALOGY This revelation dealing with Priesthood appropriately begins with information about the building of the temple. The temple is the sanctuary where the highest ordinances and blessings of the Priesthood are received. (D&C 124:25-42.) Next, we find the genealogy of the Priesthood as held by Moses. (Ibid., 84:6-16.) The Priesthood is eternal and continues in the true Church. (Verse 17.) THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD After referring to the Lesser or Aaronic Priesthood as a part of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the powers of the Higher Priesthood are stated in this way: And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God Therefore, in the ordinance thereof. The power of godliness is manifest. And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh; For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live (D&C 84:19-22). The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the key to all the spiritual blessings of the gospel. The knowledge of God and the true plan of salvation is possible only through the divine means which the Lord has established. Life eternal is unavailable without the ordinances of the gospel administered by the authority to seal those ordinances on the earth as they are sealed in the heavens. The mysteries of the kingdom of God, as administered in the temple of God, are reserved for those who desire exaltation. These ordinances are for the faithful and not for the world. (Matt. 13:10- 13; Alma 12:9-11.) In Section 84, verses 21 and 22, it is said that in order for one to see the face of God, and, therefore, to know him, the Priesthood is necessary. ANCIENT ISRAEL In Section 84, attention is directed to the experience of the children of Israel in the days of Moses. (Verses 23-27.) Moses endeavored to teach the principles of exaltation to Israel, but they hardened their hearts and thus denied themselves the opportunity to enter into the Lord's presence. Moses held the Higher Priesthood and, while on Mount Horeb, the Lord gave him the fulness of the gospel with its principles and ordinances of exaltation. When Moses saw the idolatrous condition of the Israelites, he broke the tablet of writings. Another tablet containing the law of carnal commandments, as mentioned in Section 84, verses 26 and 27, was given him and the Melchizedek Priesthood was taken away from Israel. In the revision of the Bible by Joseph Smith, we find the following, which is in harmony with Section 84: And the Lord said unto Moses, Hew thee two other tables of stone, like LESSON DEPARTMENT unto the first, and I will write upon them also, the words of the law, according as they were written at the first on the tables which thou brakest; but it shall not be according to the first, for I will take away the priesthood out of their midst; therefore my holy order, and the ordinances thereof, shall not go before them; for my presence shall not go up in their midst, lest I destroy them. But I will give unto them the law as at the first, but it shall be after the law of a carnal commandment; for I have sworn in my wrath, that they shall not enter into my presence, into my rest, in the days of their pilgrimage Thus ancient Israel lost its opportunity to receive the ordinances of godliness to receive the knowledge of God. With the loss of the Higher Priesthood, the Aaronic Priesthood administered a preparatory gospel, or law of carnal commandments, until the coming of Christ in the meridian dispensation. There were times from Moses to Christ when the prophets held the Higher Priesthood, but it was not conferred upon others as it is today. (Teachings of the Phophet Joseph Smith, page 181.) JOHN THE BAPTIST John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, was raised up by God to make straight the way of the Lord. We are informed that he was baptized while yet in his childhood and the Priesthood was conferred upon him by an angel of the Lord. (D&C 84:28.) The New Testament says that he was called of God. (Luke 3:2.) SONS OF MOSES After mentioning that the Priesthood — Melchizedek and 857 NOVEMBER 1964 Aaronic — has offices as appendages (D&C 84:29-30), reference is again made to the temple to be constructed in Jackson County, Missouri. These few verses are highly interesting because they point out a service to be performed by present-day Priesthood bearers and the functioning of the temple in the New Jerusalem. It is said that the sons of Moses and the sons of Aaron shall offer an acceptable offering in that temple, and that these brethren will be filled with the glory of the Lord in that house. (Verses 31-32.) But who are they today that have the promise of officiating in the temple when it is built in Independence, Missouri? The Lord answers in this manner: For whoso is faithful unto the obtaining these two priesthoods of which I have spoken, and the magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies. They become the sons of Moses and of Aaron and the seed of Abraham, and the church and kingdom, and the elect of God (Verses 33-34). These are Latter-day Saint Priesthood holders who honor and magnify their callings — in other words, those who keep the commandments and answer to the calls made upon them to function in the Priesthood. IMPORTANCE OF PRIESTHOOD Two important aspects of Priesthood are made known in verses 35 to 42 of Section 84. First, the acceptance of the Priesthood by the Priesthood bearer: And also all they who receive this priesthood receive me, saith the Lord; 858 For he that receiveth my servants receiveth me; And he that receiveth me receiveth my Father; And he that receiveth my Father receiveth my Father's kingdom; therefore all that my Father hath shall be given unto him. And this is according to the oath and covenant which belongeth to the priesthood (Verses 35-39). In these verses one is promised the highest blessing available to the child of God — eternal life. This is expressed in verse 38 in the most complete way possible. All that the Father hath shall be given to him who accepts the Lord through his servants. Acceptance of the Lord's servant means completely obeying the will of the Lord as given by his ancient and modern prophets. That one may understand the binding force of this promise, the revelation refers to the oath and covenant of the Priesthood. The second important responsibility pertaining to the Priesthood is found in these words: Therefore, all those who receive the priesthood, receive this oath and covenant of my Father, which he cannot break, neither can it be moved. But whoso breaketh this covenant after he hath received it, and altogether turneth therefrom, shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come (Verses 40-41). Attention is directed in the foregoing words to those who possess the Priesthood. The authority to bind and seal which God gives to his faithful sons is of such importance that a covenant (agreement or contract) is made between the recipient and the Lord. In essence it is: if you abide by the law of the Priesthood, every blessing within my power to give will be granted you, even to become as I am. Every man who has received the Melchizedek Priesthood has received the oath and covenant of that Priesthood. This agreement pertains to the Higher Priesthood and not the Aaronic. (DHC V: 555.) FIRST REQUIREMENT OF THE OATH AND COVENANT From the foregoing scriptures regarding the responsibility of the Priesthood member and the Priesthood, Elder Delbert L. Stapley of the Council of the Council of the Twelve suggested the necessity of faithfulness or obedience to gospel standards. He then asked the following questions that the elder might evaluate his faithfulness: (These questions are also applicable to every member of the Church.) 1. Can a man be faithful who does not abide by the first two great commandments, to love the Lord God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and his neighbour as himself? 2. Can a man be faithful who is not honest and truthful in all dealings and relationships with his fellow men? 3. Can a man be faithful who does not honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy, attend the Sacrament and priesthood meetings; also worthily fulfil all other duties in keeping with his callings and obligations that day? 4. Can a man be faithful who does not plan and arrange for daily family prayer in the home? 5. Can a man be faithful who does not teach his children the true principles of the gospel of Christ and then set them a worthy example by living according to those truths? 6. Can a man be faithful who does not observe and keep the Word of Wisdom? 7. Can a man be faithful who does not pay an honest tithing and fast offering? LESSON DEPARTMENT 8. Can a man be faithful who does not obey the law of chastity and is not morally clean in his life and habits? 9. Can a man be faithful who does not, through obedience and sacrifice, prepare himself worthily for the holy temples of God where he can receive his endowments and sealings in the higher ordinances of the gospel and thus bind his family happily and eternally together in love and understanding? 10. Can a man be faithful whe does not honor and obey the laws of the land? (Conference Report, April 1957, page 76). The foregoing questions only point up some areas of responsibility. Other measures of faithfulness might also be suggested, but each one of those mentioned is highly important in keeping the oath and covenant of the Priesthood. SECOND REQUIREMENT OF OATH AND COVENANT In order to give further guidelines of responsibility, Elder Stapley reminded the general conference that the second requirement of the oath and covenant of the Priesthood is to magnify one's calling (D&C 84:33), and then he proceeded to ask the following questions: 1. Can a man magnify his office and calling without honoring and abiding in the priesthood faithfully and worthily as a devoted and true servant of God? 2. Can a man magnify his calling without giving spiritual and humble dignity to his office? 3. Can a man magnify his calling who refuses to accept positions and responsibilities of trust when called upon to serve by his stake president, bishop, or other constituted authority? 4. Can a man magnify his calling if he is not obedient to gospel standards 859 NOVEMBER 1964 and requirements, and if he also fails to be amenable to the counsel and direction of righteous men who are properly called and approved by the people as their authorized leaders? 5. Can a man magnify his calling who refuses to sustain by his faith, prayers, and works those whom God has called and ordained to preside over him? 6. Can a man magnify his calling who does not use his priesthood in righteousness for the blessing and benefit of his fellow men? 7. Can a man magnify his calling who does not banish all iniquity from his soul, that he may gain favor with God and thus enjoy power in the use of the priesthood to bless people? Again, may I summarize by asking, "Can a man magnify his calling who is not willing to sacrifice and consecrate all for the building of God's kingdom in righteousness, truth, and power in the earth?" (Conference Report, April 1957, pp. 76-77). THE PENALTY The letter and the spirit of this revelation on the oath and covenant of the Priesthood give emphasis to the binding force of this covenant. The Lord says that he will hold inviolate the agreement as long as man honors and magnifies the Priesthood. (D&C 84:40.) The responsibility for maintaining the contract is upon man. Man is on trial, not God. The seriousness of this oath is also pointed up by the fact that he who altogether turns away from the Priesthood shall not have forgiveness. (Verse 41.) Because 860 this expression "shall not have forgiveness of sins in this world nor in the world to come," is associated with the penalty received by the sons of perdition (Lesson 57, July 1964), it should be known that all men who so turn away from the Priesthood may not, as a necessary result, become sons of perdition. It is possible for the unfaithful Priesthood bearer to become indifferent to keeping the commandments and to fail to magnify his calling, yet never to receive the light and understanding nor fall to such depths of wickedness as to become a son of perdition. It is apparent, therefore, that the loss of forgiveness entails the great punishment of being denied the Priesthood in the future life. Without the Priesthood no man may enter into the exaltation. This lesson should point out the importance of the Priesthood to all members of the Church. No one in the Church should take lightly any responsibility assigned him by the servants of God. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is meant by "the genealogy of the Priesthood," and who received this authority first on the earth? 2. Who receives the oath and covenant of the Priesthood, and what is the penalty for breaking it? 3. What does it mean to magnify one's calling in the Priesthood? Be specific. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 61 — "Watch, for the Adversary Spreadeth His Dominions" (D&C 82:5). For First Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To emphasize the fact that Satan is working exceedingly hard to capture men's souls and that we must be eternally on guard. Since the war in heaven, when Satan and his hosts were cast out, their evil influence has struggled continuously to capture men's souls and to thwart the Lord's work. Evil has always been in the world but the adversary has been particularly aggressive in attempting to spread his dominion during those periods when the Priesthood has been on the earth. This is undoubtedly why, since the restoration of the gospel, we have been repeatedly warned to watch and be alert to the temptations of the evil one. Never during the history of the world has our Father in heaven's kingdom progressed more rapidly. Consequently, probably more than at any other time in history, the adversary has marshalled his forces to obstruct it. Our modern lives are crowded with temptations. Pressures are brought to bear upon us from all directions — the advertisements we read, the radio, television, movies, books, and plays — all of these, at times, in a variety of ways, tempt us to lower the quality of our morals and to give in a little here and there on our standards and principles. These are the devious ways the adversary employs to ensnare us little by little until he has us completely in his power. These are the little temptations which are made so enticing and attractive and seem so harmless in and of themselves. These are probably the things about which the prophet Nephi warned us when he said that in latter days, there would be many who would say: Eat, drink, and be merry; nevertheless, fear God — he will justify in committing a little sin; yea, lie a little, take the advantage of one because of his words, dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this; and do all these things, for tomorrow we die; and if it so be that we are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we shall be saved in the kingdom of God (2 Nephi 28:8). 861 NOVEMBER 1964 The devil has always worked thus. He knows that if he can encourage us to take a few "little steps" in his direction, he may ensnare us and lead us the whole way. This is why we must be eternally vigilant against the temptations of such things as haughtiness, envy and pride, of giving vent to uncontrolled irritations or angers, of succumbing to the demoralizing effects of selfishness and jealousy. We should avoid the inhibiting effects of discouragement and doubt and should cleanse our minds and attitudes from fault-finding and contention. These are some of the so-called "little," easy-to-slipinto character weaknesses which dull the conscience and make it easier to yield to the bigger things that, eventually, will lead us away from the Spirit of our Father in heaven. In our vigilance against enticements of the adversary, let's be aware of our own _ individual weaknesses, recognizing that the evil one seeks to tempt us where we are most vulnerable. Despite the buffetings of Satan and the temptations he throws in our paths, we should remember that these are a part of the Lord's plan for our growth and development. "Temptation, is an important factor in man's probation; for by resisting it, the soul is developed and made stronger" (Whitney, Orson F.: Saturday Night Thoughts, page 310). In teaching his sons, the prophet Lehi explained this eternal principle when he said:... For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not 862 so... Righteousness could not be brought to pass... If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness.... Wherefore, man could not act for himself save it should be that he was enticed by the one or the oth- - er (2 Nephi 2:11, 13, 16). How can we fortify ourselves so that we can clearly distinguish good from evil and avoid being enticed by evil influences? The Book of Mormon prophet Mormon told us how we might know good from evil when he said:... The Spirit of Christ is given to every man, that he may know good from evil! Wherefore, I show unto you the way to judge; for every thing which inviteth to do good, and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the power and gift of Christ; wherefore ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of God. But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ... And serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil (Moroni 7:16-17). President Brigham Young told us how we could overcor? Evil when he said, "When temptations come to you, be humble and faithful, and determined that you will overcome, and you will receive a deliverance" (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 82). The great prophet Alma also instructed, "humble yourself before the Lord, and call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear" (Alma 13:28). Let us heed the warnings of the Lord and his servants and continually be on guard, watching, "for the adversary spreadeth his dominion." Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1: Introduction (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, January 1965 Objective: To introduce the present course of study and to define its relationship to the Family Home Evening Program of the Church Tuis lesson introduces Teaching the Gospel in the Home, a Relief Society course of study designed to correlate with the current Melchizedek Priesthood quorum lessons and to support the Family Home Evening Program which is to be initiated in the Church in January 1965. As the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons will ''help the father to carry out the home program by helping him understand and carry out his duties as the spiritual leader of his family,'' these Relief Society lessons should enable the Latter-day Saint mother more clearly to understand her role as wife and mother, and should encourage her to support her husband in his spiritual leadership of the family. The lessons should motivate her to a full cooperation with all aspects of the home program. In order to cooperate fully with this program, the Latter-day Saint mother must understand the place of the family in the divine "scheme of things." She must strive to establish the kind of relationship among family members that will be favorable to an acceptance of this gospelteaching program. She should realize that her attitude will be an important influence for good or a deterrent to the progress of the work, and she, herself, must become more informed as to the principles of the restored gospel. The purpose of these Relief Society lessons is, therefore, to help the mother become an effective instrument with her husband in teaching the gospel to the family. How often, in past years, have we heard a Latter-day Saint mother say, "I wish my husband could have heard the discussion today. Had he done so I am sure he would feel differently about a 863 NOVEMBER 1964 particular problem we have in our home." It is a realistic observation that with widely divergent points of view, the efforts of one parent often may nullify the efforts of the other parent, sometimes with great detriment to the persons involved and to the problem which needs to be resolved. The correlation of these lessons with those being studied by the Priesthood quorums can be of great value, since it will bring to both parents an awareness of their joint responsibility to teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel. In fact, it is hoped that through a mutual understanding of this responsibility, Latter-day Saint parents will work unitedly to meet this teaching challenge and that they will strive earnestly to bring a fullness of the blessings of the gospel into their homes. DIVINE DIRECTIVE And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands (D & C 68:25-27). This quoted directive from our Heavenly Father clearly indicates that parents are responsible for teaching their children certain basic principles of the gospel. Several specifics, as constituting this 864 basic teaching, are listed: namely, the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ as the Son of the living God, and of baptism and of the gift of the Holy Ghost. Furthermore, parents are directed to see that certain important ordinances are performed: that their children are baptized at the age of eight years and receive the "laying on of the hands"; that they are taught, by their parents, to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord. It is also important to note that this counsel is not to be considered an optional matter, merely a good idea, but that it is given as a direct commandment. FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM AN AID TO PARENTS Latter-day Saint families have always been encouraged by the Church to heed the divine commandment to teach their children the principles of the gospel. The Family Night was instituted as a time when families would play, study, and worship together. Many families throughout the Church have consistently set aside a weekly evening for this purpose and they affirm that this observance has been well worth the effort involved. In too many instances, however, recreational activities have been emphasized to the exclusion of gospel study. Many parents, no doubt, may feel inadequate and unprepared to teach gospel doctrines to their children, and are inclined to leave all religious instruction to the auxiliary organizations. The Lord would not have given this responsibility to parents, however, had he not decreed that this by the Lord, the lea €rs of the Church through inspiration have developed the ome Which is a Priesthoog administra. Tive Tesponsibilj ty. Er of the urch, for its fundaMenta] Concern j that every urch memh be more fully jn. Structed i hurch doctrine herefor, every family unit, OWever ¢, Posed, Should par. Ticipate; th Instruction program,"' Without chil dren, a Single p rson living alone Toommat » as I as families, can al] efit fr, he newly Instituted rogram € lessons will inc] de materia] adapted to © particular needs of Specia] Ypes of amilies, here such family ACtiVities Which Should Set a 8eneral] Made a part of family living. GosPel truths and ide 4 vital factor in Shapin lives Where Parents are the Many poss; their Particular ence and jy, FAMILY HOME EVENING PROGRAM MANUAL year the lessons in Home Evening e The €mphasis Will be application Of the truths in these UNiversals Savior. 3. My Telationship With the Holy Ghost. 865 NOVEMBER 1964 4, My relationship with the Restored Church. Although parents carry the responsibility to teach their children, the children also should participate in presenting lesson materials and should be encouraged to enter actively into the discussion.... It is expected that the Family Home Evening Program will become the basic teaching program for the members of the Church. All other Church lesson materials will be written to support, supplement, and complement the home lessons (Lesson 1, Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons, 1965). CONCLUSION The program of Relief Society is and always has been centered in the home. It endeavors through its varied courses of study and activities, to assist Latter-day Saint women to become better wives and better mothers. As Relief Society sisters contemplate the wisdom and the vast potential influence of this new program, they will welcome the opportunity to be a part of it. They will find in the lessons and in the Family Home Evening Program manual, encouragement and reinforcement for their inherent and sacred responsibility. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What can a mother do to establish a home atmosphere which will promote an acceptance of this program? 2. How can parents arrange a home evening which will be inviting to the teenage members of the family? 3. Why are parents inclined to leave gospel instruction of their children to the Primary, Sunday School, or M. I. A.? 4. What evidence can you give that there is need for more religious guidance in the home? 5. Discuss the merit of the Family Home Evening Program for families where there are no children. Undefeated Ruth H. Chadwick The seed Of hope and faith That's planted deep within The heart of man, defies neglect And drought. When dew Of sacrifice And love replaces hate And covetous desires, the seed Responds. It throbs With life that bursts The hardened shell, and sends Its bud of promise forth to bloom Once more. B66 © SUBBest part of its range. 867 In "Three Arshins of Land," for instance, Count Leo Tolstoi (1828-1910) presents a relatively simple tale of the degenerative effects of greed. The desire to possess becomes an end in itself that Pakhom destroys his own to own more and more property infects all of his attitudes. He resents those with property when he has little and scorns those without property when he has much. When poor, he is jealous and bitter, and when rich he is proud and unfeeling. The real point to note here however, is that Pakhom destroys his own ability to discriminate. He chooses a life of greed, and this makes all his attitudes and actions gross. The final irony, of course, is that all he eventually has is a tiny burial tract. In light of the critical principles which we have been using in this course note how the author sacrifices everything in this story to his message. From the Platonic point of view, in which message is paramount, this is effective, but it has a tendency to turn a story into a sermon. We do get Tolstoi's point, yet we are probably less affected by it than we would be if it were presented in such a way that we found it easier to see ourselves and our problems in more believable terms. The second selection, an abridged version of 'The Pardoner's Tale" by Geoffrey Chaucer (1343-1400) is also clearly intent on teaching a moral lesson, but such is Chaucer's skill that we cannot fail to note how much more force he gives his whole account by having the teller of B68 the story demonstrate, at the conclusion of his tale, the very qualities he has been deploring in others. We are uncomfortably aware of how human this is, and we find ourselves reacting strongly. If Tolstoi shows that a materialistic focus can destroy ability to make moral distinctions, Chaucer suggests a subtler temptation. We may seem to know what is right and wrong, but be wholly blind to the very weaknesses in ourselves which we condemn in others. Preoccupation with things of this world blunts our moral sense; we can continue to say the right words long after they have ceased to have any real meaning in our own life. If Chaucer's point is no less clear than Tolstoi's, he takes advantage of the form of his presentation to reinforce it. The general condemnation of avarice and gluttony, which seems to constitute the main theme of this story, is too conventional to be very memorable. What we will never forget, once we have read this tale, is the brisk dispatch with which the Pardoner—his words of exhortation against covetousness still echoing—begins to exploit spiritual wares. The two poems with which we conclude this lesson were written by contemporaries of each other. Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792- 1822) and William Wordsworth (1770-1850), both of the English Romantic school, felt strongly the corrosive effects of the materialism which seemed to them to be blighting the civilization of the early nineteenth century. Since their poems are short enough to be reprinted in their entirety, we can discuss them in detail, Shelley's "Ozymandias" takes the Greek name of the Egyptian ruler, Rameses II (1292-1995 B. C.), one of the pyramid builders. The decaying statue here described was reputed to be the largest in Egypt. The text of the poem is as follows: I met a traveler from an antique land Who said: Two vast and trunkless legs of stone Stand in the desert. Near them, on the sand, Half sunk, a shattered visage lies, whose frown, And wrinkled lip, and sneer of cold command, Tell that its sculptor well those Passions read ich yet survive, stamped on these lifeless things, The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed: And on the Pedestal these words appear: "My name is Ozymandias, king of kings: "Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!" Nothing beside remains. Round the decay Of that colossal wreck, boundless and bare he lone and level sands stretch far away. We see immediately that this is a poem of contrasts which build to the climax of line eleven and Prepare us for the ironic surprise of line twelve. (Perhaps it is worth mentioning at this time that the word "surprise" originally meant to get what you deserve but do not expect). Note how effective the short, unarguable, three-word sentence of line twelve is at this point in the poem. Note also how the flowing LESSON DEPARTMENT alliteration of "boundless and bare," "lone and level' have just the right tone of unconcern to conclude the entire idea. The key word is "despair." [t Carries the arrogance of the kj; fectively puts over the universal] lesson: this, too, shal] Pass away. To the Conclusions of Tolstoi and Chaucer, Shelley adds another. Not only are the things of this world inevitably subject to decay, but the a this-worldly approach fosters, are similarly short-lived and unsubstantial. Tural use of sand as a Symbol of instability, One final] note may help in reading this poem. "The hand" that mocks Ozymandias is that of the sculptor; the "heart" that fed his Passions js Ozymandias' own. In "The World Is Too Much With Us," Wordsworth Zives additional Insight into the problem of materialism: The world is too much with us; late and soon, Getting and Spending, we lay waste our Powers; Little we see in nature that is ours; We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon! The sea that bares her bosom to the moon! The winds that will be howling at all hours, And are up-gathered now like sleeping flowers; For this, for everything, we are out of tune; It moves us not.—Great God! I'd rather be Pagan suckled in a creed outworn; 869 NOVEMBER 1964 So might J Standing on this ave glimpses that would make 870 be simply deadenin Y Mistake our Avoiding of bviously negaIV aspects f aterialism for IS poe bring, Us ful] Circle € noted sinning of this €sson that Spiritua] development © materia] Ww: S We bring to harmony With the best that this world Offers, can we transcend it and Make the earth a stepping-stone to heaven. QUESTIONS FOR ness earthly concerns? SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government. Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 18 — Priesthood Function and the Community Objective: To point out involves the total of human experience. In the mind of God there is no such ng as dividing spiritual from temral, or temporal from spiritual; for ey are one in the Lord.... Out temporal things without coning spiritual things with them. Hey are inseparably, connected (Disgurses of Brigham Young, pase 13). Wherefore, verily I say unto you xat all things unto me are spiritual, d not at any time have I given unto ou a law which was temporal; neither y man, nor the children of men; sither Adam, your father, whom I reated. Behold, I gave unto him that he 'should be an agent unto himself: and I gave unto him commandment. But no temporal commandment gave I unto him, for my commandments arc spiritual; they are not natural nor temporal, neither carnal nor sensuai (D&C 29:34, 35). ' The term community is a well- -aecepted social science designation for the actions, interests, and experiences of a related group of gp opie. As the title of this les- | For Fourth Meeting, February 1965 that the functioning of the Priesthood son suggests, we want to look at the application of the teachings of the Church in the daily experiences of its members. We want to observe the effectiveness of the organization © in producing the well-balanced life of its members. As has been stated before, the organizational pattern of the Church comes from God. The applications and functions of the organization are' subject to the limitations of human bemgs striving for perfection. SOCIAL PROBLEMS ARE CONTINUOUS In the early history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, the members were confronted constantly with the physical problems of survival. Food, shelter, even a place to reside, were constant challenges. The pioneers endured all manner of suffering and, in the end, founded and developed a remarkable community in a very antagonistic environment. 871 NOVEMBER 1964 Today, we are still struggling with the economics of life; but also we are faced with intensified serious social problems. Many of these problems have always existed, but today there are new ones, and both the new and the old have been intensified. In the gospel of Jesus Christ, we have the direct influence of the Creator expressed in the instruction, organization, and the incentive of perfection to assist us in effectively meeting all of the problems of life. We need to apply what we know in every phase of our experience. THE IMPORTANCE OF APPLICATION In modern warfare, no effort is spared in teaching the personnel every technique in the execution of war activities. As an example, consider the air-borne troopers. On the ground they are given every possible experience in the performance of their duties. They are drilled in all maneuvers that they are expected to execute upon landing. They are given all the training possible on the ground about successful parachute jumping. Finally, they must go into the air and actually jump from the plane to test the value and effectiveness of their ground training. There can be no mistakes in this action; they must pull the cord at the right moment so that their parachute will open and carry them safely to the ground. The importance of this example is that all the knowledge in the world will not bring the paratrooper safely to the earth without the application of his instructions. He must do something, in this case, pull the cord that releases his parachute. 872 'We must do something. The gospel impels us to action. The influence of the divine constantly challenges us to discover, learn, and apply truth to the solution of the problems of life. As President Brigham Young has pointed - out, one cannot separate the spiritual from the temporal, we must apply the principles of the gospel to every undertaking in life. A MAJOR QUORUM OBJECTIVE One of the major objectives of the Priesthood quorum is "'to care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families" (1964 Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 19). This is an inclusive objective. No part of the well-developed personality is neglected. But to accomplish this, the Priesthood activity must be extended beyond the study class on Sunday morning, or the filling of an occasional Priesthood assignment. Our religion is a full way of life. It requires a constant effort on our part to assist in overcoming the problems common to mankind. The Lord will do nothing for us that we can do for ourselves. His intelligence and wisdom are available to enlighten our minds when making a decision, if we properly seek them. CREATING A GOOD ENVIRONMENT To fulfill the above stated objective, the Priesthood members must take an interest in developing a healthful atmosphere and environment in the community in which they live. Let us look at the possibilities they have in the development of a good community. We will make our examination under the following head- ings: (1 ) Morality (2) Law and Order (3) Health and Sanitation (4) Education, TiestY much man is Concerned, his Mission. ) The larger the sroup of p, bearers, the &reater the Influence an exert upon Moral js "characterized by ex. Cellence in What bertains to practice or conduct; right or Proper; dealing or concern d with establishing Principles f right and Wrong j behavior" ( Webster', ictiona True tue is rec. CBNizing the right and the wron and choos; & the &ht. Moralit lS Involved In all th cisions we Make here righ wrong are Involved ator hj elf, an We have estab. Lished 9 r val System on truth as revealed by the Ivine jn. Uence, these y es, our Standard Orality has been €veloped Single Standard expectin ame high Perer h ndard of t Church encourages honesty, hon or, integrity, Chastity, and all ngs that Id Oduce 00d Conduct and Ndards of be. Avior in all human elations quorums Should et aders in e developme » and the Maintenance of these Values in eir Contacts ith eilr o of the comm There lS no moral act t does not have 4 negative Influence Pon the ac or. There € those ho attempt to justify and excys their deviation from the Oral stan ard on the ais of 9 « Culiar Situation" op 4 "current Philosoph '6 amon men excuse js a Tationalization and has Its weak ening effect upon charactey Tiesthood qWorums can be a ma. Jor factor; 'rengthening and Supporting th Mora] Values of © Church, (2) Health d Sanitation very Priesth d quo um should © interested the ¢ Nditions of Sanitation a healt in thej ommunit There 800d eyj: conater Supply Could be the Source of infection for Other 1 e NOVEMBER 1964 them some of the most crippling known to man. Recently a very earnest and sincere effort was made to immunize everyone in a state of the United States against one of these cripples. This could have been a classic example of the Priesthood quorum's interest. In the welfare of its members and their families, by encouraging, providing transportation, and in other ways seeing to it that this drive was one hundred per cent successful. Every effort to improve the health conditions of the community we live in should be a concern of the Priesthood quorums. (3) Law and Order. The safety of loved ones and the security of property are largely dependent upon the attitude of the members of the community toward law and order. Respect for the rights of others is first learned in the home. Then: the expressions of neighbors and friends become important factors in developing. Attitudes of respect for law and order. The quorum members should be concerned about developing a sense of dedication to law and order in each member. Many people refuse to report law breakers because in doing so they may have to appear-in court. This takes time, they say, and is very inconvenient. Until the breaking of the law affects them direetly, they do little about. It. Usually what they do then is too late. A part of the morality of our religion is honesty and the responsibility for maintenance and observance of law and order. The maintenance of law and order is the personal obligation of every citizen. To have such an attitude 874 in a community would be the most effective insurance against delinquency and crime. (4). Education. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has, from its organization, been directly and positively active in the education of its members, not only for the children, but for every member of the Church. Dr. Widtsoe pointed out that "Man is more than animal. A man holding the Priesthood can live up to his high calling only by exercising his mind, with all his might, and thereby increasing daily his intellectual _ vigor" (Priesthood and Church Government, page 57). There is a rich program of education in the organization of the Church: But this is not enough. If there is any hope for man to become as God, he will have to know all things. This is a continuous task. The Church has organized schools. Teaching all of the sciences and encouraging the membership to become proficient in various specializations and professions. As long as a person is as studious in spiritual matters as in the secular fields; there need be no conflict. Education, together with spiritual development, can be a more effective' weapon: against unemployment, disease, © war, or any of society's basic ills. The intellectual development of quorum members has equal claim on quorum leadership wath spiritual and temporal. Welfare. What is really needed is for the Church members to see all human activity in the light of divine law. Every daily act has a bearing on perfection. The design ef the Creator for the perfection of mankind unfolds in the revelations of the divine will expressed in Church government. The basic function of Church government is "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). There are many areas of human relations that need the attention of the organized effort of men holding the Priesthood of God. They include: the development of a constructive youth program that will help avoid the problems of delinquency; the development of an environment that will reduce the hazards of mental health; the expression of a greater interest in the fatherless and the widow; a dynamic program in preparation for and in the care of old age; and many others. The well-balanced life can come out of the successful functioning of the Priesthood through quorum organizations and operation. Christ's government on LESSON DEPARTMENT earth as in the heavens must call forth the divine characteristics of man in overcoming selfishness greed, and hate, and in controlling the appetites, disciplining the mind, and in stirring man with a never-ending thirst for and quest of knowledge. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Does divine law refer only to spiritual things? 2. Are social problems the responsibility of the Church organization? 3. Does the responsibility of the quorum for the welfare of its members include the problems of community life? 4, What is the test of true virtue? 5. Is observance of the law a part of the gospel of Christ? Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 29; 58. Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapter 5. Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, page 429. Our Garden Gate Rowena Jensen Bills For generations our garden gate Swung us in and out, Heard our whispered secrets, The happy friendly shout Of greetings to our neighbors, friends, Heard the magic sighs That springtime brings and love fulfills, Heard the hushed goodbyes. Rains have rusted its hinges, winds Have pressed its weariest strength; Hot suns have dried its wood to gray, Until now, at length, We who swing it to and fro Handle it with care, With loving tenderness, because Of memories we share. 875 | ESIC: 876 CHRISTMAS MUSIC We Have Christmas Musicin Al] Categories:.... PIANO MUSIC IN BOOKS AND SEPARATE SOLO FORM. -ORGAN MUSIC. --- INSTRUMENTAL SOLOS AND DUETS. +. CANTATAS AND CHORAL MUSIC, PLEASE INDICATE WHAT CATEGORY YOU DESIRE AND WE WILL SEND A SELECTION ON APPROVAL. ' Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY lS EAST Ist SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 EM)........2i21........... 15 E. Ist SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Use this advertisement as your order blank I | I | | I | I | I I | I | | I | I ' I I I | | I I!! I I I I!! I I I I l | I First Grand Addition Leora Larsen Three thousand million People in the world. No, three thousand million People, and ONE I'm not sure they counted My new grandson. Hold Back This Autumn Linnie F. Robinson Hold back this autumn, Let the sun stand still For red ribbon streamers Are wild on the hill. Green leaves are paling Where gold ones thunder; Frost in a Purple haze Rides to the plunder. Dark pines silhouette Solid walls of stone; While I, lone disciple, Catch its smallest tone. Hold back this wonder, Call the people in; Autumn is a tableau, And staged to the brim. Brief Hour Dorothy J. Roberts For a little season now Between the summer and the chill, A brief perfection permeates The valley and the hill. It rests upon the dewy rose And tints the waning day; Greet it with an open heart — Perfection cannot Stay. By we ere Bisucect* Christmas Gifts Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English staffordshire Ware, with pordered pictures ot the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, gold - filled with double gold-filled pendant. $ Light chain, gold - filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10 — 12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, POetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 "Wist Ye Not That! Must Be About My Father's Business?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This pook is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah Britt 877 878 ROSE PARADE TOUR days — Decembe, 27 to January 3 via Las and San Dieg Vegas ° ROSE PARADE TOUR days — Another Season Christie Lund Coles gs, and blooming. As blown 8lass; fF er day, tulle-so i OUR ROOTS GO DEEP (Continued from page 825) lost. If we had had a car that day we could have found her long before she fell in that mean old swimming pool up on Elmer Drive. "Jim made arrangements for today. He had a salesman pick me up this morning, and take a trial run. Honestly, he left the final say right up to me. I chose one big enough for the neighborhood to go places. I hope you like it." Vera smiled a longing sort of smile that asked for approval. "Tt is lovely, Vera." "Thanks, Marion, for the delicious pie. You are always doing nice things for me. I'll just never forget when you took us all in when I was careless and set the house on fire. And you've helped me with sewing, and helped me with lessons I had to give, and just dozens of things. I wanted to have a car to share with you. If you ever need one, Marion, I want you to feel free to use it. You will, won't you?" Marion laughed happily, "'That is almost being too generous, Vera. But I am truly happy for you. There's nothing in the world like good friends and neighbors. My roots go deep, too, Vera." And Marion knew she really meant it. Design Vesta N. Fairbairn Mountain pines applique With needled featherstitch The cut-out shapes Of clouds upon the sky. HAWAIIAN TOUR Departure Date November 17 ROSE PARADE TOURS Departure Dates: December 26 December 27 HAWAIIAN TOUR February Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely hound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you. Wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment mus? Accompany ail orders, Please include postage-according 'to table-listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2..... 55 Zone6.......... 90 Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7.........,1.05 Zone 4. 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. "ae EMpire 94-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. C= ' DESERET fREws PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 879 One Hundred Five Mrs. Hilda Anderson Erickson Grantsville, Utah One Hundred Two Mrs. Katherine Ann Rogers Cluff Wenatchee, Washington Ninety-eight Mrs. Alice Potts Soule North Little Rock, Arkansas Ninety-seven Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas Shaw Los Angeles, California Ninety-six Mrs. Rosalia Marion Williams Beardall Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Adella Cowley Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Johanne Mariah Hegsted Rawson Whittier, California Ninety-five Mrs. Rhoda Ann McClellan Cardon EI Paso, Texas Mrs. Mary Robina Murphy Norris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Sena Anderson Young Richfield, Utah Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Syracuse, Utah Mrs. Nettie Hunt Rencher Snowflake, Arizona Mrs. Hannah Osborne Ashton, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. Laura J. Fredrickson Petersen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lily Purdy Bagley Sacramento, California 880 CMtO70b Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Sarah Lottie Phyllips Collett San Diego, California Mrs. Lavina Mae Winter Wood Fullerton, California Mrs. Susan Jane Wakefield Loveless Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Selma Steele Whittier, California Mrs. Susan Jane Duncan Clark Farmington, Utah Mrs. Lucy Anna Plank Sacramento, California Ninety-one Mrs. Sarah Brackett Foss Elliott Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elsie Eleanor Oliver Wilcox Bridgeport, Nebraska Mrs. Annie Wilcox Madsen Mount Pleasant, Utah Mrs. Sarah Walters Jones Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Mildred Boshard Moore Los Angeles, California Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Ninety Mrs. Maria Greer Parkinson Darley Corning, California Mrs. Mamie Seegmiller St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Larsen Price Lakeview, Utah Mrs. Gustella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona* Mrs. Dolly R. Manire Hopkinsville, Kentucky Mrs. Lelia Olive Moon Potter North Farmington, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Ann Haight Esplin Shelley, Idaho For Relief Society Sisters Relief Society Literature Packet. Out_of the Best Books literature teaching materials. Packet includes eight beautifully reproduced pictures in color on stiff bac king and a long play 33% 1 p-m. Record as an aid to teaching the literature course. Set $6.00 2 The Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Volume III, Sections 77-106 by Roy W. Doxey The newest volume in the series is now off the press! These volumes examine the Doctrine and Covenants in light of inte rpretation by prophets, seers, and revelators from the time of Joseph Smith to the present. Volumes I, Hl, & Hl — $3.95 each 3 Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76 and Sections 78-87 by Roy W. Doxey A compilation of eight fabulous lectures by one of the LDS Church's foremost specialists on the Doctrine and Covenants.... Here is a booklet that every Latier-day Saint will want to refer to again and again. $1 00 e ft The Doctrine and Covenants Speaks 5 for the layman. $5. 95 Theology Kit for 1963-64 10 cents postage still available... $1.00 Deseret Book Company Ss = ip — — 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY check...... 1 have an account, please charge for the 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 9 2 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA above numbered items: ] 2 3) 4 5): << SE re ACOreSS._____........-- 222-00 222 -2ee even veeeenee eee ee neces ee cece eeeeceee tees Ci thy a oe ee oe eeState... Zip..........2-.2------ Residents of Utah please add 312% sales tax by Roy W. Doxey A commentary on the Doctrine and Covenants that shows unusual insight and helps explain this scripture T Deseret Book | OM PANY Theology Picture Packet for 1964-65 Pictures for use by teachers of the theology lessons that will prove invaluable. $1 00 44. East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find money order _. Skillet (Popular 10" * he Chicken fryer) with co a ver and nylon Spatula = ($6.75 value).. $3.7— handy 8" ($3.50 value) 25 > Ockfielg, Wisconsin Saute pan +. Three Shepherds Eva Willes Wangsgaard In after years when they were asked What part of that strange sight Cut deepest, setting them apart Through time beyond that night: "It was the light,'' the first one said, '"Such radiance as would seem That all the suns of all past years Were caught within one beam." "It was the song,'' the second said, "Blest music of the spheres That poured through heaven's open door Still rings within my ears." "It was the message,' said the third. 'Poor shepherds as we are — The Son of God, the way of peace, Are ours beneath his star." The Cover: §™ Madonna and Child, from a painting by Domenico Ghirlandaio Courtesy National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., Samuel H. Kress Collection Lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Im Three Shepherds, H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout: §% Dick Scopes Illustrations: fj Mary Scopes Thank yOu for the Wwonderfu| Relief! Am m 8ratefy Y faithfuy Society Ma azine y are Sending me agazin ©presentatiy, | appreciate them so ch.. | like the Outh, fr Eden Ff, Stories anq Pictures * More than ard' who POssib| Or the that, | love the love th OU are show. Magazine to folio e to ahiti, where Ing to me € noth 8 to give to a m Usban Oo j you but a heart filled with love.! Want Church build Supervisor e to tel| you | love you aij, and | Pray article jn the Magazine is of a cha that the Lord will bless you always, ter-building Quality. Jt also gives Yuan Chang Ping Chi ideas of things to do. USY gathKaohsiun ering d Pressing love] ahitian aiwan, China flowers to mak Parch OrreSPOndence ards as illustrate in The Magazine means so much to June 19 issu describeg by Me, since | aM living away from home, Peggy Tangren, that | want jt to be also in the homes Alice Spencer Of my dear friends, even though they Papeete, Tahiti are n Mbers 6 he ¢ urch, especially enjoyed the ¢ rial "You, | have been king The Relief eart to Understandin »" by Hazel M. Ciety Magazine Tr thirty-five omson ked ap imary Stake and ] uld b st ithout it. Board with ¢ 'S dear sister Y years pictures 3 beautiful that! Cut ago € isa ve Wonderfy| Person, Many of e Put them in Mrs, va ohk in Book of Rememb Helsinki, Finland Percitfa Lundeen Monte, California did enjoy it Having been th e (in Heidelberg @ perl Myself, I rativey i vies to the Relief Socie €"wonderfy| &xPeriences! Had in that it In Trip oli. Ther —_ Cautiful cit He description Of the Our spirits are Soul <n place is great ile | in Ger Most forgotten being So f. Many | Served jin the Relief Society me, friends, and the Churc Presidency 4g azine helps to bring IS Mary Stevenson Sether, bo h Spiritually through th Plred less Sa Salt Lake City, Utah Many thanks for The Relief Society Closely knit. We have come to k Magazine. I enjoy it so much, ang true Meaning of Sisterhoog a read to MY friend Who are not mem Men and tH avenly F. Ther ers of hurch Onderfy} he articl e Management Sisters in this bra ch of R lief Societ hild Psycho] BY, and fe) Work in ¢ S€ harmo 'S Zood ¢ better Mother and wife a Especially Now th have Sisters jn Many timely. It is articles such hese that land Make our hea sing. Th are a —— —_ f Clated even here j Tripoli North Africat ertadown, Ar mag Mrs. Joyce H. Davis Northern Ireland Tripoli, Net Africa 882 Relief Society eo: Volume 51 December 1964 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 884 Effects of Home Influence WN. Eldon Tanner 898 The 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda Parker 931 Christmas Seals — A Needed Gift James E. Perkins Appointments to the General Board 895 Edythe Kimball Watson Ellen Neilson Barnes 896 Kathryn Smith Gilbert Verda Fox Burton 897 Myrtle Robison Olson Alice Colton Smith Fiction 902 Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 3 Mabel Harmer 932 The Christmas Gift Kathryn E. Franks General Features 882 From Near and Far 908 Editorial: "Who's on The Lord's Side, Who?" Marianne C. Sharp 910 The 134th Semi-Annual Church Conference 912 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 960 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 914 Christmas in Gold and Green 917 Strawberries Decorate a Holiday Table 918 "Golden" Pictures Made From Keepsakes Beatrice S. Poelman 920 Christmas Comes in Color Florence S. Jacobsen 923 The Christmas Tree Wears Roses 924 Old-Fashioned Hardtack Candy Fran Dunford 925 A Table Tells the Christmas Story 926 Grand Junction Stake Gift Bazaar 928 A Candy House for Christmas 934 Lucy Andrews Lives in a World of Handiwork Lessons for March 935 Theology — The Revelation on Priesthood (Continued) Roy W. Doxey 940 Visiting Teacher Message — "For the Word of the Lord Is Truth...." Christine H. Robinson 942 Work Meeting — The Eternal Family Alberta H. Christensen 946 Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature: Part II 951 Social Science — The Value of Church Activity Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 881 Three Shepherds — Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard Christmas 1897, by Enola Chamberlin, 894; The Shepherds, by Lela F. Morris, 911; May There Always Be a Christmas, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 913; A Word, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 930; Again Tonight, by Christie Lund Coles, 958. ERS Pe 2 RR ET BR CEI VES Tee RT PED ORR re ee Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. @ 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utoh 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 0 year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Monuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts a ee 1 stand before you, my brothers and sisters, in all humility, and pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with us, as it has been through this meeting. I wish to congratulate this chorus of Singing Mothers for the lovely singing they have rendered for us this afternoon. I have appreciated and been inspired by the lovely talks that have been given. Though this is a humbling experience, it is indeed a privilege and a joy to bring greetings and blessings fromthe First Presidency to you assembled in this great Relief Society conference. Ten thousand leaders of the greatest women's organization in the world! What an inspiring sight! What a lovely sweet spirit we have had with us today! And what a wonderful work you are doing for the members of the Relief Society and for all who need 884 President N. Eldon Tanner of the First Presidency (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964) your help, and for the Church as a whole; and, in fact, your influence is being felt throughout the world. ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF RELIEF SOCIETY You have been reminded time after time that your Relief Society was organized under the inspiration and direction of a Prophet of God. Your devoted leaders, Sister Spafford, Sister Sharp, and Sister Madsen are carrying on under the direction of a loving, inspired prophet today. You all know how President McKay loves and respects the mothers and women in the Church, in fact, all womanhood. I quote from one of his statements: "A beautiful, modest, gracious woman is creation's masterpiece; when to these virtues a woman possesses, as guid- Ing stars In her life, tighteousnesg and 80dlinesg, and an Irresistible 10N of your Advisers, the neral Authorities, and with the resjent of the Church hi elf, you 4ve the guj ance of the Priest 00d, whic IS not JOvyed b any other Women' Organization In the World, The Work and 2ccomplishmentg Of this great Organization h been Outstanding th I should lik two rea] Contributions and ac. "omplishmentgs this they belonged. Th ble were there to s of the World's and Prayed; they ang more beautifully as a result of the Pirit of the Lord Which accom. Panied them, nd whic as fe}t Canada. I cannot show You these go you can see them, ut it Certainly jg enCouraging me and helps m understand how t S great work er States use — Space like this Here js an- DECEMBER 1964 work of this great organization, the Singing Mothers, whom the world knows. From the Toronto Telegram, Canada, May 9, 1964: None of the women drink or smoke and they are encouraged to keep their figures by diet.... They are taught how to dress, sit, walk, apply makeup, and generally present their best self to the world.... From instruction by Relief Society members, Mormon women make their own clothes and put on a fashion show.... They study the finest literature in courses rated at university level.... Another of their sayings is "Under the refining influence of Mormonism, we develop gifts within us." From the Washington Post, in Washington, D. C., by Ann Wood, May 10, 1964: One hundred and twenty women from the District, Maryland and Virginia, have been meeting every Monday since early March to rehearse for their appearance today with the Singing Mothers Chorus at the New York World's Fair; and, wasting no time, have spent all of the scheduled three hours singing each Monday. Under the direction of Ellen Barnes, who commutes the rest of each week to Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, to rehearse the two hundred women in other sections of the chorus; the women came from as far away as one hundred seventy miles to participate. Members of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints (Mormon), the women began last Monday with a prayer "to go forth as a missionary group and further Thy work here" and then rehearsed today's program of religious, patriotic, and popular favorites including, "How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place," "Give Me Your Poor, Your Tired," and "You'll Never Walk Alone." Mrs. Barnes, looking calm and composed, in spite of her hectic schedule, commented that a spirit of service is a major reason for the quality of the Mormon singing groups. B86 Now we go to the Boston Sunday Globe, Massachusetts, by Mary Sarah King, May 31, 1964: The Relief Society, which has been described as "Mormon Angels of Mercy," is the oldest national women's organization in America. It started one hundred twenty-two years ago, and it now has five thousand five hundred chapters around the globe, comprising 262,000 members in fiftytwo countries. One of the activities for self-improvement and_ self-expression, the chorus of Singing Angels, enables its members to sing "for the sheer joy of singing' — a vital part of the Mormon religion. Mrs. Ward C. Lowe, Newton Center, President of the Relief Society, pointed out that of three hundred mothers, who form the Boston chorus, seventy-five percent are converts, "mainly of old Yankee stock." When writing their stories on the appearance of the Singing Mothers at the Fair, the reporters also included much general Church information, such as membership statistics and growth, and missionary work, aims and ideals, etc. I should like to read just a little of that. From the Patriot Ledger, Quincy, Massachusetts, by Dorothy Newell, Patriot Ledger Religion Editor, May 29, 1964: An intense love for God and their fellowmen has earned respect for Mormon missionaries in this area.... In Weston where a ward has been organized only a few years almost a hundred percent growth has occurred in two years.... The Mormons offer no ease in Zion that might appeal to non-members. Instead, it would seem emphasis on tithing, strict Sabbath observance, temperance, and church attendance would be a deterrent rather than an attraction. In addition there is the unorthodox acceptance of a temporal leader as "the Lord's appointed prophet," and the Book of Mormon as the "Word. Of God." Nevertheless, the Mormon wards and branches are thriving on a weekly schedule that dwarfs the programs of most Protestant and many Roman Catholic churches. Then I come to the St. Paul Pioneer Press, St. Paul, Minnesota, by Georgann Koelln, May 9, 1964: Mother's place is in the home, according to the basic tenets of the nation's oldest women's organization, the Women's Relief Society of the Mormon Church. Members of the organization's two St. Paul chapters are doing their best to make that place a more interesting one, and the experience of motherhood a more enriching one. Now we come to this big paper, the New York Herald Tribune, by Louise Sweeney, July 2, 1964. They start out by saying: Bach chorales, cranberry relish, and compassion are all part of a program the Mormon church has mapped out for its women. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (known as the Mormon Church), established a woman's Relief Society one hundred twenty two years ago, and it is still going strong.. Just a few days ago, one of its channels, the Mormon Singing Mothers, gave a series of concerts in the Church's World's Fair Pavilion; but it is not all Bach and Brahms in the society. In one of the groups' four weekly meetings each month, members learn how to do everything from baking bread to burping a baby. Mrs. Belle Spafford, President of the Society for the past twenty years, explains the homemaking sessions. "If I am not interested in baking bread, but I have a little girl who needs a coat lined, there is something there for me." The something may be learning the threadcount in a sheet or the cheaper cuts of meat. It may even be a course in world literature, EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE which is on the agenda: for the coming year. There is just no limit to the society's tie-ins between the art of homemaking and the other arts. An article in the current Relief Society Magazine is titled, "Emily Dickinson: Occupation - Housekeeper." Readers may bridle at describing the concise poet as a housekeeper, but they can't quarrel with the recipe given for Emily Dickinson's gingerbread. Now I could go on and read. In fact, I had several others here. The Women's Editor of the United Press International, Gay Pauley, wrote a syndicated article which appeared in many of the newspapers, and from which they selected the words for the headlines on the stories, which seemed to carry a general theme, such as: "Mothers Give Pleasure With Music," 'Singing Mothers. Have Lighter Hearts," 'Music Is Good for Women, Good for the Home." The opening statement of her story, and she was quoting Sister Spafford, is: 'Singing is good for a woman, good for the home. Women who sing have lighter hearts and happier viewpoints." I was thrilled to see what a wide coverage the Singing Mothers Concerts were given and how favorably they were reported. Now, Sister Spafford, as President of the Relief Society, is also making her influence felt in the women's' world. Organizations, where she is being listened to and highly respected by women who are in very important positions. The executives of these organizations include leading women from all parts of the world, who are beginning to recognize the high standards of Relief Society and the effect it has on its members and on the community as a whole. B87 DECEMBER 1964 AMERICAN MOTHERS RESOLUTION Now, I should like to read a resolution. This resolution was passed by the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, at the Waldorf-Astoria and signed by Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, the President of this organization: Whereas the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contributed most generously to the success and pleasure of the annual conference of the American Mothers Committee Incorporated, Waldorf-Astoria, New York, May 3-8, 1964. Be it resolved that the American Mothers Committee in convention assembled expresses its sincere appreciation for the inspiring presentation of the New York Singing Mothers at the 1964 Awards Luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria, which markedly moved the audience, and which furnished the highlight of the occasion. I should like to read an excerpt from a letter from Mr. Ralf Brent, who is president of the WorldWide Broadcasting Association, which is addressed to Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, a copy of which was sent to Sister Spafford: At your American Mothers Committee luncheon at the Waldorf, I saw something which happens all too rarely these days in the United States. I saw an audience of a thousand people become emotionally involved: in some simple basics of life which are often forgotten or ignored. Our veneer of sophistication about our way of life has become so thick that we rarely dare to dig into the strength of the grain underneath. When the Singing Mothers sang Emma Lazarus' magnificent words, taken from the base of the Statue of Liberty, I realized how many of us no longer believe that - this is the country of "the poor, the tired, and the tempest tossed." This magnificent experience made those of us who were there believe again. It must be done over and over. Everyone in America should have been able to share this renewal of the true American spirit. Then he goes on to say to the President: "Dorothy, you are without doubt one of the great women in America and in the world. I cannot tell you how tremendous your American Mothers luncheon was. I cannot explain to myself why we did not broadcast it. Is there a tape available?" THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY Now the work that the Relief Society organization is doing and all that will be done can only be accomplished by the individual members doing their part, and, in fact, one of the great strengths of this Church is the individual testimonies of its members and the lives they live. The old saying that "the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world" is certainly true to the extent that the influence in the home determines more than anything else. The ideals, the ambitions, the attitudes, the vision and success of that individual. I should like to quote from a talk given by President McKay at the time of the dedication of your lovely Relief Society Building: In more than one instance in the life of fiery youth, this lingering influence has proved a safeguard in the hour of temptation — an influence in its restraining power greater than the threat of the law of the land, the ostracism of society, or the fear of violating a command of God. In a moment of youthful recklessness the youth might defy one or all of these forces, and do what his hot blood bade, but at the critical moment, the flash of a mother's confiding trust, the realization of her sorrow if he fail to be true to it have given him power to refrain from indulgence that might blight his entire career. Not only the mother, but the entire influence of home also influences society. Indeed, home is the foundation of civilized society. Words uttered and the doctrines taught around the fireside are the influences that shape the destinies of empires.... Of all human influences those of home are the most far-reaching in their results.... "There are many men who owe their honor, their integrity, and their manhood to the influence of pure minded sisters" (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, pp. 805, 806). Now as members of this superior organization and as mothers in Israel, as wives and those who are neither wives nor mothers but members cf the: families which make up the community, you have a marvelous opportunity and a. Heavy responsibility of making the: family and community life exemplary in every way. Every daily paper and magazine we pick up today seems to carry amazing and startling reports of juvenile delinquency, vandalism, hooliganism, and youth riots, etc. The causes or contributing factors to all of these are listed as follows: too much money, too much leisure time, boredom, unrest, lack of responsibility, etc. But the home environments are listed as the principal contributing cause. One of the reports of the White House Conference for Children and Youth points out that among the principal contributing causes of crime and delinquency in youth are faulty family relationships and unwholesome home environment. The report further emphasizes the fact that the bad example of adults is one of the worst contributing causes of drinking, dishonesty, and delinquency. EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE J. Edgar Hoover places great emphasis on the influence of the home and appeals to parents to have a high religious and moral standard of living. Just the other day I read an article, entitled, "Wild Youth: a World-wide Problem," by Geoffrey Lucy. He listed startling examplesof what is going on in different parts of the world. He said that in France, four fifteen-year-old girls wrote statements on separate sheets of paper, saying that one would commit suicide, another would steal, the third be good, and the fourth take a lover. The girls then drew lots, and a few days later, each one carried out the "promise" she had drawn. In.. Britain last spring, this writer reported, eight hundred "rowdies" and four hundred of their girl friends journeyed to Clacton on scooters and motorcycles and indulged in a threeday riot which scandalized the country. The author related the incident of a seventeen-year-old boy in Brazil who drove his car at full speed through traffic lights in Rio de Janeiro just to see what would happen. He and his fifteen-yearold girl friend were killed, as well as another motorist who was involved in the collision. The author says that the greatest amount of rioting, vandalism, and all kinds of delinquency is found in large cities, and, particularly, in countries where they are most prosperous. He points out that they have much money, but they seem to have neither idealism nor a desire to learn. They are characteristically aimless except when they are 889 DECEMBER 1964 planning some spectacular activity to relieve their pervading sense of boredom. Then they exhibit remarkable energy and enthusiasm, and urge each other to "keep going!" He refers to all of this as "hooliganism," and says that it is on the increase among children of the well-to-do. When asked as to why they do these things, a variety of answers was given, including such motivations as "for kicks," finding something to do with their surplus time and money, or, as one Italian boy explained his reasons for hooliganism, he wanted to demonstrate his capability of doing just as he pleased. In the article the author considers remedies for such dangerous anti-social behavior, particularly in nations where a high standard of living seems to have an influence on the prevalence of hooliganism. In Denmark some progress has already been made, and the trend towards some abatement of delinquency and _ vandalism gives heartening encouragement. Many different types of activities for young people have been organized and offered as substitutes for delinquency and lawlessness. These programs include drama, sports, many types of handicraft, special, supervised entertainment for the -holidays, and some assistance to individuals. In the school curriculum. THE INFLUENCE OF THE CHURCH As I read this, I thought how fortunate we in the Church are to have the Church organization which provides all of these 890 things, with devoted leadership for our youth, and how important it is that we as parents and older members of the family support these and encourage our youth to take advantage of their opportunities in these activities. A plan to counteract vandalism in Norway is based upon utilizing the services of reformed vandals who volunteer to guard Frogner Park, where there are many world-famous works of sculpture and other attractions. The boys who are selected. For this purpose also patrol the public swimming pools and become passengers on the Oslo street cars to guard against the slashing of the upholstery in the seats, and other deliberate acts of vandalism. These reformed - delinquents seem _ to find that being on the side of the law can be as challenging as to indulge in illegal activities. The conclusion of the discussion is particularly illuminating and significant. The inference is made that these and other remedies which may be put into practice, can be only palliatives, for there seems to be agreement among social workers in every country that the essential solutions to the "thrill" activities of "wild youth" are to be sought in the homes of every land. In the same article there is a quotation from Sir John Hunt, Director of the Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme for Youth, which strongly emphasizes the responsibility of parents in training, directing, and governing their children, and that children need the help of parents, not their "recrimination." It is inferred that prosperity makes the parental responsibility even more difficult. Some parents are handicapped in their efforts to train their children by their own desires and their emphasis upon material possessions — a practice which they sometimes pursue to obtain social status. Deceptions are practiced for business advancement, and there may be a callous adherence to many forms of intolerance. All of these practices can become the seeds of misconduct and lawlessness in children, for children are prone to pattern their attitudes and their activities from examples they have encountered in their own homes. RESPONSIBILITY IN THE HOME As President McKay has said, and I should like to emphasize the fact, our greatest responsibility is to our family and the home, and for all of us to live exemplary lives wherever we may be. The Church has given us certain standards and teachings which we accept, and which if lived, will contribute more than anything else to high ideals and good citizenship. I have said many times, and am thoroughly convinced, that if the adults of the community would live as they should religiously, and hold to moral standards which they profess, we would have no juvenile delinquency problems. On the other hand, you have heard it said, and it is true, that by example you can teach a child to hate almost anything, even going to Church. Many of those who speak of and worry so much about delinquency continue to encourage it by their daily actions. How fortunate is the child who EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE lives in a home where the gospel is lived and taught; where there is complete love and harmony; where it is expressed in word and deed by the father to the mother, the mother to the father, and they to the children, and the children to one another; where they are taught to say: "Please," "Thank you," "I love you," "Your hair looks beautiful," "I surely like your dress," "Your talk was very good," "I certainly was proud of you today," and to live in a home where mother extols the virtues of the father. PRAYER IN THE HOME What a great influence it has on the child's life when every night and morning the family kneels down in family prayer, and the child realizes that the father or the mother, when leading in prayer, is actually talking to God; that he or she has faith in the Lord; presents his problems, expresses his gratitude, and asks for the blessings of the Lord to attend them in all that they do, knowing that if you "Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings... He will direct thee for good" (Alma 37:37). How important it is that we express our heartfelt gratitude every day for the blessings we receive, and not call on the Lord only when we are in difficulty and feel seriously the need of his help, guidance, and direction. When I think of the influence of family prayer in my life, I cannot fully express my feeling of gratitude to my parents. Albert Einstein, speaking of the influence of example, once said: 89} DECEMBER 1964 I am absolutely convinced that no wealth in the world can help humanity forward, even in the hands of the most devoted worker in this cause. The example of great and pure individuals is the only thing that can lead us to noble thoughts and deeds. Money only appeals to selfishness and irresistibly invites abuse. Can anyone imagine Moses, Jesus or Gandhi armed with the moneybags of Carnegie? I like the Chinese proverb: "Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow." We can do more good by example than in any other way. COURTESY IN THE FAMILY If the senior members of the family could just realize that as they move from place to place in the home, as they meet one another, as they speak on the telephone, as they show the proper courtesy and respect for one another, they greatly influence the lives of the younger ones, I am sure they would strive to be better examples. What a wonderful influence it would have in the home if we would sincerely set about to treat the members of the family as though they were honored guests in our home. President and Sister McKay are real examples of this. I was thrilled when I read an article by Sister McKay in which she said: I am very, very proud of my husband. He is just as lovely, just as courteous, just as polite, just as kind, just as sweet in our home as he is anywhere else, and I am very proud of him. And I am very grateful for him. I cannot see a thing wrong with him. And I pray that our brethren 892 will try to follow his example in every way, shape and form. A short time ago I was talking to a man whom I would like to see reactivated, and I told him how much activity in the Church would mean to him and his family. He said, "I have as neighbors a family who are considered to be good Church members. The other day I heard her yelling at her husband, and have heard her yell at her children so that I could hear everything she was saying, and I cannot believe that there is a feeling of love in that home." Now this is certainly not good advertising for the Church, and it is not good for the members of the family. We should always be kind to and considerate of one another and of our neighbors. In fact, as one author has said, "Our business is to make ourselves better and others happier, and that is enough to keep us busy." I have known of youth and new converts who have become inactive and left the Church because of actions of members. I have often asked myself, as I am sure you have, what effect are my life and my actions having on those around me, my children, my neighbors, and my friends? Gossip in the home, too, is a very dangerous practice, and should not be indulged in. Very often that which you hear is not true, and if it were, it does not do anyone any good to talk disparagingly about his neighbor. As the beautiful song says, "If you're the first a fault to see, be not the first to make it known." We must love one another. Jesus said: ... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets (Matt. 22: 37-40). RESPECT FOR AUTHORITY Respect for authority should be taught in the home. It is most important. Children can be taught by the way we act, respect for one another and respect for authority. If a mother or father were to say nothing more than, "T just don't know why the bishop did that," or "why the stake president doesn't do this," or "why the General Authority said that," it is encugh to cause the child to wonder if his father or mother does actually support those in authority. It may be that we do not agree, or we cannot understand why things are done as they are done in the Church, but let it always be known that we are prepared and determined to support those who are in authority, knowing that by so doing we cannot go wrong. Do your children know beyond any question of doubt that the gospel means more to you than anything else in the world, that you know that it is true and that it is the plan of life and salvation, and that by living it, it will give you the greatest joy and success in this life, and that it will also prepare you to go back into the presence of our Heavenly Father? Before a teacher is chosen to teach at the Brigham Young EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE University, he is interviewed by one of the General Authorities to determine his worthiness. He is expected to have a_ testimony which radiates wherever he goes. He should be prepared to keep the Sabbath day holy; be a full tithepayer, and be honest, honorable, and upright in all he does, and keep the Word of Wisdom strictly. Now in_ interviewing these applicants, I have taken the position that I would much rather have a nonmember teaching at Brigham Young University than to have a Latter-day Saint teacher who is not prepared to live according to the standards of the Church. That's how important I think example is. The same is true in the home. If the parents break the Word of Wisdom in any way, if they go golfing or swimming, etc., on the Sabbath, no matter what they try to teach their children to do, they leave the impression that it is not important, that it is not necessary to keep the commandments, and to live according to the teachings of the gospel. It is only natural that they want to do as their parents do. Even the way we greet our Home Teachers as they come to visit us can have a great influence on the lives of our children. If we make them welcome, accept them as representatives of the bishop, and listen to them with respect, it will have a great influence for good. On the other hand, if we act as though they are imposing on our time, or inconveniencing us in any way, the far-reaching bad effect cannot be measured. Though our children are born in the Church, they are investigators at 893 DECEMBER 1964 best. They need to be taught the gospel by precept as well as by example. No story is more thrilling and exciting to a child than that of the Prophet Joseph going into the woods to pray, and that God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ appeared to him and talked to him. They can listen to it over and over again. Then to be told how he withstood all temptations, though he was criticized and ridiculed and abused, and had no Sunday School or Church to attend from the time he was fifteen until eighteen years of age; how the angel appeared to him; and how John the Baptist and Peter, James, and John came to him, can be most impressive. In fact, there is nothing more appealing to children than the beautiful stories contained in the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and in Church history, and the simple principles of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Now, my brothers and sisters, I should like to bear you my testimony to the truthfulness of the gospel as taught by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I wish to assure you that if you take this gospel seriously, and you must, into your homes and each of you live it every day in your community, your influence will be felt and you will be filling your mission. Here upon the earth. I further wish to bear my witness that God does live, that Jesus is the Christ, and that they are interested in us, and stand ready to answer our prayers. Further, that we have at the head of the Church today a prophet of God directing this work, May we all be worthy of these things, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Christmas 1897 Enola Chamberlin So young | was | would not now remember Were | not often told in later days, That we were threading through the late December Across the desert's solitary ways — Until we reached where mountains cut the sky, And climbed them with the horses' heavy tramp, To heavy clouds where cold winds scurried by; And drew aside to make our night-time camp. We slept within the wagon, snug below The heavy canvas top, and waked to see The bare ground laid across with glistening snow, As jeweled gifts held out by every tree. My father bowed his head, ''Come, let us pray, And thank God for this lovely Christmas day." 894 Edythe Kimball Watson, Salt Lake City, Utah, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30,.1964. A daughter of S. Farnham Kimball and Margaret Dunn Kimball, she was born in Raymond, Alberta, Canada. Her parents on both sides of the family were of illustrious Latter-day Saint heritage and devoted to the Church. She is a great-granddaughter of Heber: C. Kimball, who was a counselor to President Brigham Young. She was educated in the Raymond High School and the L. D. S. University. Her Church work has included teaching and executive positions in Sunday School and the Young: Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and many years of Relief Society service. She has been a ward class leader in social science and. Theology, and a vis- 'ting teacher message leader, counselor, and president. She has acted in a stake capacity as literature and social science class leader, and as president. Sister Watson and her husband John Francis Watson are parents of Jane Ellen W. Hales, President of Butte Stake Mutual Improvement Association, and mother of the two Watson grandchildren; John Kimball Watson, who with his wife Barbara Brown Watson are students at the University of Utah; Mark Kimball Watson and Mary Francis Watson,: high school students. Ellen Neilson Barnes, appointed to the General Board on September 30, 1964 was born in Logan, Utah, a daughter of Peter M. Neilson and Adelaide Cornelia Keaton. She was educated at the Brigham Young College in Logan and at the New England Conservatory of Music. She studied in Paris and Berlin. Sister Barnes has contributed her music talents freely to Church and community activities in Washington, D. C. She is a concert pianist and chorister in Washington Stake. She directed the chorus of a _ hundred Singing. Mothers from. New York and New Jersey' Stakes at the: Rainbow Awards Luncheon for the American Mother of 1964 at the Waldorf-Astoria. She also directed the three hundred Singing Mothers' Concerts at the World's Fair on June 24 and 25, 1964, with Sister Florence Madsen as an associate conductor. Sister Barnes' husband is Maurice Barnes, an attorney. They are parents of two sons and two daughters. Maurice Jr. And David both filled missions in England. Mary Ellen (Mrs. Thomas H. Caine) lives in Madison, Wisconsin, and Carolyn is a student at the University of Utah. Sister Barnes brings to the General Board an inspiring personality, a devotion to the Church and Relief Society, and the great gift of music. 895 a Kathryn Smith Gilbert, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30, 1964, is a native of Beaver City, Utah, a daughter of Robert H. Smith and Caroline Carlow Smith. She attended the Murdock Academy in Beaver and received a B. S. Degree from Brigham Young University. Her post-graduate work was done at the University of California, Berkeley, the University of Mexico, and the University of Washington at Bellingham. She taught school in Cedar City and Salt Lake City, Utah. Sister Gilbert's husband is Alonzo J. Gilbert, and she has two stepsons Jessie L. And Milton L. Gilbert, and nine grandchildren. She was a Gleaner leader in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association for twenty years, and served for ten years on the General Board of the Primary Association. She has been a visiting teacher, class leader, and a social science class leader in the Monument Park Second Ward Relief Society, and has demonstrated marked qualities of leadership. She is writing a set of lessons on The Book of Mormon for Lamanite Relief Societies at the present time. The devotion and dedicated service of this warm-hearted and lovely woman will be of much value to the General Board and to all privileged to know her. 896 i ~ Verda Fox Burton, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society September 30, 1964, was born in. American Fork, Utah, to James Isaac Fox and Mabel Edith Williams Fox. Sister Burton and her husband Archie Hunter Burton live in Salt Lake City, Utah. They have two sons, Archie Duane Burton and Ronald B. Burton. There are seven grandchildren. Sister Burton was educated in Salt Lake City public schools, the L. D. S. Business College, and the University of Utah. She is an efficient accountant and has assisted her husband in his business affairs. She has served as president of Relief Society in two wards, and has been a theology class leader and a visiting teacher for many years. Also, she has served in executive positions in ward and stake Primary Associations, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and in Sunday School. She has an active interest in genealogical research and shares this enthusiasm with others. Sister Burton's call to the General Board has come at the completion of a mission to Australia, where she served with her husband. Her devotion to the gospel, her deep understanding of its principles, her friendliness and her love of people and her concern for their welfare will contribute valuable service in her new assignment. Myrtle Robison who Olson, was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 30, 1964, was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, a daughter of Guy K. Robison and Susan Nilsson Robison. She was educated in Salt Lake City and attended the L. D. S. Business College and studied extension courses at the University of Utah. Her husband is Albert M. Olson, and they have three sons and a daughter: Albert M. Olson, Valerie Olson Cooper, Robert David Olson, and Thomas Roger Olson, now serving in the Irish Mission. There are three grandchildren. In Relief Society she has served as ward work meeting leader, visiting teacher message leader, education counselor, and president. In stake capacities, she has been education counselor and president. She has brought to her many assignments a willing spirit, great enthusiasm, friendliness, humility, and appreciation for her associates. Her deep and quiet faith serves as a directive and a source of strength for herself and for those who are privileged to be her companions in service. Sister Olson is an efficient and devoted homemaker. She is an excellent cook, an efficient seamstress, and her knitting and other handwork have inspired many Relief Society sisters to similar accomplishments. She will lend strength to and be a devoted member of the General Board. Alice Colton Smith, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society September 30, 1964, is a daughter of Don B. Colton, who was a United States Congressman from Utah, and Grace Stringham Colton. Her husband is W. Whitney Smith. They live in Logan, Utah. They have a son Phillip C. Smith and a daughter Carolyn C. Smith. Another daughter, Annette C. Smith is deceased. Mrs. Smith attended the Utah State University, where she obtained a Master's Degree. She also studied at the University of Utah, Columbia University, and George Washington University. She has served as a literature and social science class leader and as a branch president. She was Relief Society president of the Austrian Mission during 1960-63, while her husband was mission president. Sister Smith is an experienced and effective public speaker and has had much experience on the lecture platform.-She is at present a part-time teacher at Utah State University. She was a member of the Utah State Textbook and Curriculum Commission 1958-60. While her husband was on the staff of the American Embassy in Israel, she was asked to be chairman of the Embassy Committee on Israel-American relations. She is an inspirational, loving, and believing woman, and will add great strength to the General Board. 897 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda Parker General. Secretary-Treasurer A warm spirit of joyful anticipation filled the air on Tuesday, September 29, as Relief Society leaders from all over the Church began to converge in Salt Lake City prior to the opening of the 1964 Relief Society Annual General Conference. Each leader was eagerly looking forward to receiving inspiration, specifie: instruction, and uplift that would enable her more effectively to carry forward and build up the work of Relief Society through-: out the world. The main floor and some of -the balcony of the~ historic Tabernacle on Temple Square were filled as these stake and mission Relief Society leaders and also. Some Priesthood leaders assembled for the opening. Session on Wednesday morning, Septem-. Ber 30, and united in spirit and voice by singing, ""O Beautiful for Spacious Skies." The special music for this session was inspiringly rendered by a 200-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from the Kansas City Stake directed by Joyce H. Sanders and Josephine H. McCall. Elder Roy M. Darley accompanied at the organ and also provided beautiful prelude and postlude music. 898 President Belle S. Spafford, in her twentieth year of presiding over Relief Society, conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions of the conference, supported by her Counselors Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen. President Spafford opened the conference with a report of the progress made by Relief Societies through= out the Church during.1963, gave pertinent instructions relative to~ - new aspects of the. Relief Seciety program, and re-emphasized certain basic policies for guiding the work. The roll call conducted by Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker revealed the attendance at this session of 3,427 stake and 209 mission Relief Society leaders from 378 stakes and 23 missions throughout the Church. President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Marion G. Romney, both Relief Society Advisers from the Council of the Twelve, addressed this session of the conference with stirring messages of instruction and encouragement.. Elder Romney reminded: the sisters of the important responsibility of mothers to bring up their children "in light and. Truth." He recommended as. An-aid for doing 1964 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE this, a study of the standard works of the Church and recognition of and obedience to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. President Smith, the concluding speaker for this session, contrasted and compared the status of women in the Church in this and previous dispensations; and spoke of the opportunities for the women of the Church for service through the divinely established organization of Relief Society. He referred to this as "a divinely appointed service so essential to the welfare of the Church." For the general session on Wednesday afternoon, Reliet Society members and the general public filled the Tabernacle and extended to an overflow audience in the Assembly Hall, where the conference proceedings were witnessed over television. Relief Society leaders were honored to have in attendance at this and also the preceding session of the conference several members of the General Authorities and their wives. Of interest at this session was the sustaining of ten new general board members since the previous conference, making a total of forty-seven sisters presently serving on the General Board. Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring addressed this session. She spoke of the strength that comes into our lives through trusting in the Lord when coping with life's sorrows and difficulties. President Spafford and_ her counselors gave inspiring messages to the women of the Church. President Spafford emphasized the value to mothers of wise and understanding hearts in training their children in the paths of righteousness. She cited salient teachings of spiritual leaders in this and former dispensations, setting forth guidance in training and rearing children. Counselor Sharp told of the blessings gained through Relief Society in helping women more fully to follow the admonition of the Savior to "take my yoke upon you." Counselor Madsen used as her theme that happiness is the purpose and design of existence and suggested factors essential to the achievement of happiness. President N. Eldon Tanner, Second Counselor in the First Presidency and the _ principal speaker at the general session, delivered a moving message. He delighted the vast audience by sharing with them an interesting account of the success of the Singing Mothers Chorus which presented music at the American Mothers Awards Luncheon in New York City in May, and of the larger combined chorus which presented concerts at the New York World's Fair in June. He displayed to those assembled the large scrapbook containing clippings from 372 newspapers throughout the United States and in Canada relative to Relief Society and the Church resulting from the publicity given to these concerts. Elder Tanner then outlined the value of good example and teachings in the home in properly influencing and training children. This inspiring session was concluded by the glorious singing of "Onward Christian Soldiers" by the combined Singing Mothers Chorus from the Deseret, Gunnison, Juab, Millard, North San- 899 DECEMBER 1964 pete, South Sanpete, Garfield, North Sevier, Sevier, South Sevier, and Wayne Stakes. The chorus was directed by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board, with Elder Roy M. Darley at the organ. Due to building construction surrounding the Relief Society Building, the reception usually held on the Wednesday evening of the Conference for stake and mission officers had been cancelled. The Thursday morning session on October 1, was a departmental meeting in the Tabernacle featuring the three courses of study and the visiting teacher messages for the coming season. The visiting teacher presentation '"Beyond Each Door," written by Alberta H. Christensen, depicted blessings that may be realized in homes throughout the Church through application of the visiting teacher messages. The enlightenment that can come into a woman's life through study of the teachings contained in the Doctrine and Covenants was dramatically portrayed in the theology presentation "The Lighted Path," by Luacine C. Fox. "Out of the Best Books" was the title of the presentation written by Celestia J. Taylor introducing the new literature course which portrayed some of the authors to be studied and some of the selections. The textbook with this same title which had been prepared at the direction of the General Board was also featured. The concluding year of the social science course of study, "Divine Law and Church Government," which has been written by Dr. Ariel S. 900 Ballif, was featured by an excellent address by Dr. Ballif. The message of the course was further highlighted through impressive scriptural readings by Genevieve F. Wright and a beautiful duet by J. Stuart and Clara McMaster. Separate departments for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, visiting teacher message leaders, theology, literature, and social science class leaders, and work meeting leaders were conducted in the afternoon for the respective stake and mission leaders, at which specific instructions related to the various areas of the work were presented. An outstanding display of articles suitable for work meeting activities was a part of the work meeting department. General Authorities addressed two of the departments — Elder Harold B. Lee, a Relief Society Adviser from the Council of the Twelve, spoke to stake and mission Relief Society presidencies. Elder Lee emphasized the importance of gospel teaching in the home and told of the plan for coordinating these teachings in the home through the Priesthood, with special emphasis on the responsibility of Relief Society members as mothers in this home teaching. Elder Paul H. Dunn of the First Council of Seventy discussed with theology class leaders techniques for conducting stimulating class discussions to assure the sisters gaining the most from the lessons. As the respective departmental sessions concluded, a spirit of gratitude for the blessings of the past two days filled the hearts of all in attendance, with a yetive areas the instructions as wel] Solve to carry back to the ward as the Spirit of this great Relief and branch leaders in the respecSociety conference, On, Hazel Ss. Love, Alberta H. Christensen, Anna B. Hart, Oa J. Cannon, Fawn H. Sharp, and Anne R. Gledhill. Members not present: Aleine wm. Young, Edith P, Backman, Celestia J. Taylor, Edythe k, Watson, Ellen N, Barnes, Kathryn s. Gilbert, Verda F. Burton, Myrtle R. Olson, and Alice C. Smith.. 901 The Turn of the Wheel Mabel Harmer Elsa Breinholt meets Clay Knowlton, from Salt Lake City, stationed with the United States Army in Heidelberg. She is eager to come to America and quickly takes advantage of his offer to have her sponsored by his family. Her widowed mother had hoped that she would stay in Germany and continue her growing friendship with Karl Ernst. It was a lovely day in mid-autumn when Elsa left for Bremerhaven to board the ship for America. Heidelberg had never looked more beautiful. The hills were never more green — the river never more inviting. "And yet it goes eagerly on toward the ocean," she told herself. 'The same as J." Her mother and Maria went with her to the station, and, at the last moment, Karl came tearing up. "I had a hard time getting away from my work," he said breathlessly. 'I had to threaten the boss' life to get away at all." "Perhaps you won't have to do that again," laughed Maria. "You may not have a job at all when you get back." "Then you will have to care for me," he replied. 902 CHAPTER 3 f il Mrs. Breinholt was not laughing — nor even smiling. Elsa knew well enough that if there had been any way right now to put a stop to the trip, her mother would have done so quickly. She had half hoped that Clay would also be at the station, but she knew that it was not as easy to get off from military duty as from a job. The announcer called her train, and she kissed her mother and Maria goodbye. She turned to Karl last. 'Auf Wiedersehen," he said, holding her hand tightly. ""Auf Wiedersehen," she smiled. "Auf Wiedersehen." At this last moment tears blinded her eyes, and she ran toward her car. Once aboard and moving through the countryside, her tears quickly dried and she enjoyed the passing scene. Her spirits soared again. She was on her way at last! At long last she was going to see the world. At the harbor she went aboard at once and was shown to a small stateroom in the tourist class. The enormous size of the ship was overwhelming. It was all so shining and sparkling clean it looked as if no one had ever stepped a foot inside before. There were two berths in the room, but no one else came in. The room steward told her that the other lady was -probably boarding at Southampton, where the ship took on the majority of its passengers. She had been in her room just long enough to start unpacking, when there was a knock at the door and a porter handed her a basket of flowers. The card read "Have fun — Clay." Esa thought it was the most delightful surprise of her entire life. It was a good omen, she decided, of the wonderful things that were to come into her life now. She set the flowers on the small dressing table and hurried up on deck. She must not miss the departure, even if there was but a small crowd on the pier to see them off and very few other passengers. She knew that the ship would make one stop at Le Havre before going on to Southampton., The great ship moved out of the. Harbor so easily that she could hardly believe they were leaving until the shoreline began to recede. Only then did she realize that she was leaving her 'homeland — and for how long, no one-knew. It could be forever. There was a lump in her throat as she whispered, "Auf Wiedersehen." She was eager to meet her roommate and stood on the deck at Southampton as each passenger came aboard. The train with the tourist class passengers had THE TURN OF THE WHEEL come down from London first, and when all of them apparently had come on the ship, she hurried down to her stateroom again. She found it occupied by a young woman, perhaps a few years older than she. Elsa noticed that she was wearing a wedding ring. "Hello," she said, holding out her hand, "I am Elsa Breinholt." "Cynthia Winters," replied the other. "I am very happy to meet you." Elsa knew at once that she was an American. "'You have been over here on a visit?" she asked. The young woman's face clouded. "No — not. Exactly," she said, as she turned and began unpacking a case. "My husband was stationed here with the Air Force. There was a crash a month ago." "Oh! I'm so sorry!" cried Elsa softly. "So now you are going home?" "I. Suppose so." Cynthia shrugged as if it couldn't really matter very much where she went. She managed a faint smile as she glanced toward the flowers and said, "I see that you have an admirer." "Yes." Elsa blushed. ''At least, he sent me these flowers. He is also an American. A soldier — stationed in Heidelberg — my home." "And you are going over to meet his folks?" "Oh, no! It is not serious. I am going over simply because I -want to go to America. His family did sponsor me, however, and I shall go to their home when I first arrive. They live in Salt Lake City." "Tt sounds just a bit on the serious side to me," Cynthia in- 903 DECEMBER 1964 Then she added, "My That isa sisted. Home is in Wisconsin. Long way from Utah." Cynruia finished her unpacking and they went up to the dining room for lunch. They were assigned to a table with four others, a middle-aged couple from England going over for a visit with a married daughter, and two young boys who had been touring Europe. "On a shoestring and a fourleaf clover," announced one of them cheerfully. "So don't be surprised or embarrassed if we order everything on the menu. We have to make up for a lot of under-par meals." Elsa found plenty to do on board to keep her busy and happy. There was a movie every day — a small library — games in the lounge, and a few hours of sunshine on the deck assigned to the tourist class passengers. In the daily ship newspaper she was surprised to see notice of a Latter-day Saint service to be held in the cabin class lounge. "Look!" she exclaimed. 'Some of my Church members have a service here tomorrow! Isn't that wonderful?" "What is your church?" asked Cynthia. "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is usually called the Mormon Church. Do you know anything about it?" "A little. We did go to the chapel in London, where we heard an organ recital and a brief talk. It was really exceptionally good. And I have seen the temple a few miles outside of London. We didn't go in, however." It was on the tip of Elsa's 904 tongue to say, "You couldn't." Instead, she said, ''Wouldn't you like to go with me tomorrow?" "Yes, why not!" she replied with another shrug. "It will be something to do." Elsa could hardly wait until the time to go into the service. She found about twenty people gathered in the lounge. There were seven young men, returning from missions, who took charge. The other people were tourists who had come from various parts of the ship. The young man who greeted them asked if anyone could play the piano, and was delighted when Elsa told him that she could... One of the group led the singing. Two others gave the prayers and the talks. One spoke on eternal marriage, and Elsa could not help noting the deep interest with which Cynthia listened. Later, when they had returned to their own room, Cynthia said, "About that eternal marriage — your Church really believes that a man and his wife are married forever—not just until death?" "Yes, indeed. Is it not a beautiful thought? That is part of the ceremonies that take place in the temple you saw in England." "It would be a_ beautiful thought, if one could have any assurance that it is so." "That is something you would have to find out for yourself," said Elsa simply. "But how?" "It is easy, really. You can get in touch with missionaries when you return home. We have them almost everywhere now. Perhaps there is a branch of the Church right in your own town." Cynruia turned away. "But it is too late now, for Ralph and me." "Tt is never too late to plan for eternity," said Elsa. "What do you mean?" "TI cannot explain it all well enough. But if you will just see the missionaries, they will tell you." "But these missionaries—why, they are only boys! Those we saw today can't be much more than twenty years old." "That is right. Most of them are in their early twenties. They spend two years or more in the field. Not only do they go without pay, but they take care of all their own expenses while they are abroad." "But why?" 'Because they have something very precious and wonderful to share with everyone in the world. You will see that is true, if you will just give yourself — the chance." Cynthia said no more, but Elsa was quite sure she had been impressed enough so that she would remember. They reached New York early on Tuesday morning and missed breakfast in order to stand on the deck and be greeted by the Statue of Liberty and the magnificent skyline of the great city. "Are you stopping over here-at all?" asked Cynthia... "No. I cannot afford to do so, much as I would like. I am going straight to a bus station and take the first one out for Salt Lake City." "That's an awful long ride," said Cynthia. '"You'll be dead tired without any stops." THE TURN OF THE WHEEL "Then I'll go to sleep," said Elsa cheerfully. "Clay told me to get out and walk around at each rest stop, and it wouldn't be too bad. Besides, it will be a wonderful way to see the country." "You'll sure see a lot of it before you get to Utah. And some of it is going to look mighty dry and barren after what you're used to in Europe. If you were just going to Wisconsin now..." Cynthia sighed.... "It's gorgeous in the fall." "Then I'm glad for your sake," said Elsa. "I hope it will be very bright for you." They said goodbye, and Elsa took a taxi to the bus station. Even that short ride through the busy streets of New York was an exciting adventure. Everything had been wonderful so far. Surely the future would be also! Leaving the city again was interesting. There seemed to be no end to the industrial section. But at last, they had left it behind and were out in the open country. She remembered Clay's advice to do all the walking she could at any stop and so far, was enjoying every mile of the trip. The countryside was interesting and beautiful in the fall colors. She was deeply content. THe bus reached Chicago just after noon the next day, and she had a four-hour stopover before leaving again for the West. She walked down one of the streets from the station and was amazed at all the noise and bustle. There were more automobiles than she had seen in all of her life before — and more people. She wasn't sure that she liked it at all, and 905 DECEMBER 1964 it made her think, with something akin to nostalgia, of the peaceful streets of Heidelberg. I do hope that Salt Lake City isn't like this, she thought. But of course it won't be. It isn't nearly so large. When she had walked as far as she thought advisable in one direction, she turned and went back again. There was still time to have an early dinner in the cafeteria before leaving. She felt greatly rested and refreshed and, when her bus was announced, went down to get aboard with new interest that this was to be the last leg of her trip. When she left the bus for the last time she would be in Zion — the city of her dreams. There were two children seated just across from her, a boy of about eight and a girl a bit older. They seemed lonely and somewhat frightened. She smiled at them pleasantly and asked, "Are you going very far?" The question seemed to bring home to them the fact that they were going far indeed. The girl's eyes widened as she _ nodded, "Yes. Quite far. We're going to Utah." "Good," said Elsa. Where I'm going, too. Company all the way." The children were obviously delighted at the prospect, and at the very next stop attached themselves very firmly. It continued this way for the rest of the trip. They stayed together at all stops and ate their meals together. It was not long before they had poured out their story. Their father had been dead for some years. In fact, Jerry didn't remember him at all and Pauline "That's We'll be 806 only slightly. Their mother was very ill now and they were going out to Provo to live with an aunt until she recovered. Then she was going to join them. "It's almost out in the country and I can have a dog — maybe..." Jerry volunteered. It was clear that a dog would compensate for a number of things. Ir was not long before Elsa realized how right Cynthia had been in describing the country. It had grown dark before they were very far out from Chicago, and when she awakened the next morning it was to vistas of golden fields that seemed to stretch on forever, with occasional small towns and farmhouses in between. It was a bit forbidding, and she had to remind herself very forcibly that this was why she had come — to see the world. To see something different. Well, it was certainly different, she had to agree, thinking of the dense evergreen forests that covered the hills at home. She was half dozing when they crossed the State line, and she just barely caught sight of the big sign announcing that they were in Utah. "Did you see that?" she called to the children. '"'We are almost there." Jerry leaped to his feet, ready to get off as soon as the bus could slow down. "Not quite this soon," she laughed. "But it will be only an hour or so, I'm sure." She had found the mountain scenery much more interesting than anything they had passed through for a long time. There were patches of scarlet and yellow leaves on the mountainsides. As they swung out of the last can- yon, and she caught sight of the panorama of the valley with the lake in the distance, she caught her breath with its sheer beauty. The faraway mountains were capped with snow. This was a fitting climax to her journey. It was really worth coming one fourth of the way around the world. For the first time she began to feel nervous about meeting the Knowltons. Clay had been so friendly that she had taken it for granted his family would be the same. But would they? Well, she need not stay with them for very long. As soon as she found a job she would also find her own place to live. It was just a matter of getting settled. The bus rolled into the rear of the station and stopped. They piled out as quickly as they could. "Does your aunt meet you here, or do you go on to Provo?" she asked. "Our ticket says Provo," answered Pauline. "Is it much farther?" "I don't know. We'll ask at the office." They walked up the ramp and into the waiting room. Elsa looked around eagerly to see if she could locate the Knowltons. She had sent a telegram from Chicago telling the exact time she should arrive. But how would she know them — or they her? The room was full of people. Her first concern was for the children, however. She found that their bus would not leave for another half hour. They walked around the room a couple of times for exercise, then went into the lunch room for a glass of milk and a bun. By that time their THE TURN OF THE WHEEL bus was called, and she took them down again to put them on. "In a little more than an hour you'll be there," she said. "I hope that you have a wonderful time this winter." "Thank you," they said, looking very doubtful. She went back again and sat down to wait. By now she felt as nervous as the children had looked. What if no one came? She had their address, but should she take a cab to their home? Maybe they had changed their rainds about meeting her. Then what would she do? She was becoming just a trifle desperate when her name was called over the loud-speaker. With a sigh of relief, she jumped to her feet and hurried over to the information desk. She recognized them at once and wondered how she could have missed them before. Mr. Knowlton was Clay just twenty years older. Mrs. Knowlton held out her hand and said 'Elsa! We're so sorry to have missed you. We didn't recognize you because of the children. We were looking for someone alone." "Of course," she smiled. "I didn't think of that." She shook hands with Mr. Knowlton and he gathered up her bags. "This way," he said, leading them towards the north door. Just outside Elsa looked up to where the golden angel on a lofty spire caught the rays of the setting sun. She wanted to stand there and look — and look. Mrs. Knowlton touched her arm and smiled as she said, 'Come, my dear. It will be there for a long time." (To be continued) 907 ITORIAL Pees: = Tene" ReEvIEF Society is enthusiastically behind the new Family Home Evening Program which will begin in Latter-day Saint homes in January 1965. That parents are responsible for teaching their children the gospel in the home — both by precept and example — is an eternal principle. The Prophet Joseph Smith had revealed to him the portentous words "the sin be upon the heads of the parents" who neglect to teach their children. Every President of the Church since then has reiterated the directive, as have other General Authorities. With the falling away from righteousness and the upsurge of wickedness in the world, today's prophet of the Lord is establishing in the Church this Family Home Evening Program, to bring to fruition righteousness in the lives of family members, by learning the gospel together as a family. The lessons will be taught under the direction of the father with the full cooperation of the mother. As an aid in this accomplishment, weekly lessons will be taught to fathers in Priesthood classes and a monthly correlated lesson will be taught to Relief Society members. Also fortifying this program will be visits to the homes by the Home Teachers. This program is inaugurated through inspiration for Latter-day Saint families to set their homes in order. As the new year dawns, the time of thinking and planning will have passed and the time of action will have arrived. Every Latter-day Saint wife will have the responsibility of supporting her husband in the family gospel training period. Every Latter-day Saint woman, even though she be living alone, will take part in the gospel study. Volume 51 December 1964 Number 12 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer "Who's on The Lord's Side, Who?' Every Latter-da action in giving Wholehearted Support to this Program. [f She will] rogram — Anna B. Hart Mary vy, Cameron Anne R. Gledhit. Edith s. Elliott Afton w. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Wealtha s. Mendenhall Zola J, McGhie eone G, Layton Isa T, Peterson Oa J. Annon Blanche g. Stoddard Fanny S. Kienitz Lila B. Walch Evon w. Peterson Elizabeth B. Winters; Lenore ¢. Gundersen Aleine Young aRue H Rosell arjorie C. Pingree Josie B. Bay Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Alberta w. Christensen Alice L, Wilkinson Cleone R. Eccles Mildred B. Eyring Irene w. Buehner Edythe k. Watson Edith Pp. Backman Irene C. Lloyd Ellen N. Barnes Winniefred Ss. Manwaring Hazel s. Love Kathryn s. Gilbert Elna P. Haymond Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson 909 The 134th Semi-Annual Church Conference The 134th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 2, 3, and 4, 1964. President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-second year, from his home nearby, presided at all the general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. President Hugh B. Brown and President N. Eldon Tanner conducted the meetings. All of the General Authorities, except President McKay, were in attendance. The three days of instruction and rejoicing provided for the world-wide membership of the Church a rich harvest of truth and enlightenment. Many thousands of members and interested listeners among the nations of the earth were privileged to be uplifted once more by the glad tidings of the gospel. Television and radio, and later, the printed word, carried the message to far places in English, German, Spanish, and Portuguese. The great organ and the many voices carried music to the multitudes in tones of faith and majesty. The theme and the prevading messages delineated the principles and requirements of the everlasting gospel: the divinity and mission of the Savior; the great apostasy; the restoration; and the importance of prayer and obeying the commandments in order to obtain a testimony of the gospel. President David O. McKay's opening greetings and address were read by his son Robert. The beloved President said, in part: It is over fifty-eight years ago that | stood at the pulpit in the Tabernacle for the first time as one of the General Authorities of the Church. | remember well then my trembling and humility at facing such an audience and accepting a position as one of the General Authorities.... This morning, as then, and during the intervening years, | ask for your sympathy and prayers. Evidences of progress in the Church give us true cause for rejoicing. The Lord has blessed us with eventful and prosperous years during the last decade. The loyalty of the members to the ideals and teachings of the Man of Galilee has been evidenced in many ways.... But let us ever remember that peace and progress are attained only at the price of eternal vigilance and constant righteous efforts. President Hugh B. Brown spoke of the revealed gospel as providing the answers to questions vital to happiness and eternal salvation.. 910 EDITORIAL We believe that as a philosophy, Mormonism is the most profound and the most hopeful in the world today. But it is more than a philosophy. To us it is the Restored Gospel of Jesus Christ, unadulterated by the speculations of men. The basic idea of our religion is the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, with the love of God and the love of fellow men as basic principles.... The restoration of the gospel... Marks the inauguration of the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times.... The Restoration of the Gospel... Is the consummation of the work of God throughout the ages, and the final preparation for the second advent of Jesus the Christ. President N. Eldon Tanner declared that if men would accept Jesus as the Son of God, peace could fill the world with its glory and its blessing. | am sure that many of you young people wonder how it was that the shepherds and the Wise Men were looking for and recognized the sign that would tell of the birth of the Savior. They expected a new star. This was because ancient prophets had foretold the signs that would appear. Those who had read of the prophecies were prepared for these signs when they came, and what a thrilling thing it is to know, as recorded in the Gospel of Matthew, that the Wise Men from the East followed the star to the place of his birth.... They were instructed to go to Bethlehem, where he would be born, as prophesied by Micah, the prophet.... All the scriptures to which | have referred are testimonies of thos2 who were told by angels or by God himself many years before the birth of Christ that he is the Son of God. The Shepherds Lela F. Morris The shepherds of the hills were greatly blessed; They saw the glowing splendor of the star. While all the little village lay at rest, it shone on Bethlehem and hills afar. They heard angel voices from. The heavens ring, And followed on to where the young child lay. There were glad. Tidings of the newborn king,«: in lowly manger on the fragrant hay; And, guided by a new star's radiant light, The Wise Men knelt with precious gifts of gold. Where glory brushed. The shadows of the night, They saw the beauty of that sacred scene unfold. God showers his grace on humble folk and blesses: them, Even shepherds on the hills of Bethlehem..- 911 fen Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Elizabeth Eckhardt May, Dean of the School of Home Economics at the University of Connecticut, was the director of a five-year rehabilitation study of handicapped homemakers which has given new hope to thousands of hemiplegics, arthritics, victims of tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, cardiovascular diseases, and those _ orthopedically disabled. Training films, slides, booklets, and how-to-do-it instructions compiled during the course of study have already been disseminated to rehabilitation centers in each of the fifty States and twenty-three foreign countries. Lndividuals or groups wishing to secure lists of such available materials are invited to write to: Handicapped Homemaker Research Center, School of Home Economics, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut. Hanako Tsugaru, on September 30, married Yoshi, younger son of Emperor Hirohito of Japan, in a two-thousandyear-old Shinto ceremony at a shrine on the imperial palace grounds. The emperor, who, traditionally, never attends a court function unless he is the star participant, watched the ceremony on television. Hanako descends from rulers of northern Honshu, Japan's main island. Attractive Princess Margarita of Sweden was married last June 30 to British businessman John Ambler, in a historic twelfth-century church in Stockholm. This appears to be another genuine romance. 912 Mrs. Mattie C. Sanford, Salt Lake City, Utah, who was honored several years ago with a gold medal for 'unusual civic service,'' was named a Fellow of the Photographic Society of America, the world's largest photographic society, at their meeting in Montreal, Canada, in August. She was cited for her excellence in color and stereo photography, and for her many contributions to the advancement of photography by teaching and _ lecturing. Mrs. Martha Tavian Lincoin, a resident of the Uintah-Ouray Indian Reservation, near Roosevelt, Utah, died September 26, 1964, at the age of 116. Her husband, who was born in 1849 and died in 1925, was named Abe Lincoln. They had no children. Lovely Princess Anne-Marie of Denmark on September 18 became the bride of King Constantine of Greece. They are obviously deeply in love with each other. He, at twenty-four, is the youngest king reigning today, and Anne-Marie, at eighteen, is the youngest queen. Greece is Europe's newest monarchy, its dynasty being only 100 years old. Denmark is the oldest monarchy, dating back more than a thousand years. Helen Hayes, United States' first lady of the theater, says she is utterly weary of plays ''which deal with the mentally sick and the spiritually infirm,'' and which display ''a great paucity of ideas."' TRANSPARENCY BY O. F. OLDENOORP May THERE Always DE a cChHRiSstMas Dorothy J. Roberts Despite the jets above the flattened fir Or the probing of the layered lense's eye, Still, Magi leave the healing scent of myrrh And shepherds lay the warmth of lamb's wool by. Let frost be smitten from each windowpane, And pine and poinsettia light the room again. christmas in ADO GREEN hristmas trees and decorative motifs from the home of Mrs. Alberta Wright Moyle X1ESIGNS BY GORDON WRIGHT Christmas Tree of the Nations This unusual and very beautiful Christmas tree graces the entrance hall of the Moyle home. It is anchored in a black antique urn, and decorated with artificial fruit and white (electric) candles. The dolls, in authentic costumes, represent various countries of Europe and South America, giving special interest, as well as radiant color, to this decor. Note the effectiveness of the tall and slender tree against the golden draperies. 914 TRANSPARENICES BY HAL RUMEL Green and Gold Stairway The wreath and the boughs of evergreens are accented with gold balls. Note the ribbon bow on the wreath. The small tree attached to the door is made of boughs decorated with small gold balls and gold rope. The lovely chandelier creates a harmony of light, and the poinsettia plant in the high window provides a striking point of interest. 915 Dark Green, Pale Pink, and Gold Christmas Tree This richly glowing tree has an unusually effective design of color and placement of ornaments. The tree was sprayed a deeper green to make a more striking contrast for the pale pink and gold drops hanging from the boughs. The candles are white, and the tree is placed in an elegant brass antique container, tied with gold rope. The dark green and shining gold design is carried out in the decor for the mantel and its beauty enhanced by the placement of the dark green candles in the crystal candelabra. The Christmas decor was especially planned for harmony with the gold-colored rug and the gold-framed picture above the mantel. StRAWBERRIES decorate A poliday TAbIE The centerpiece is a basket filled with strawberry plants in small pots. The pots are covered with green artificial moss, and artificial strawberries are arranged among the leaves of the plants. And decorate also the handles of plates are centered by 4 mound of powdered sugar. 1° make the mound, press powdered sugar into moulds, then turn upside down and taP gently to release the sugar. The favors are sndividual jars of strawberTy jam (or preserves) tied with artificial strawberries. The recipe for the jam is an excellent one whic one-half cuP of fresh \emon juice and let the mixture poil two minutes longer. Remove from the heat and alternately stir and skim as the jam cools, to prevent floating berries. Pour into jelly jars oF glasses, of a size desired for the favors. For a uncheon the fresh strawberries make 4 suitable first course. TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUM "Golden" piCTuRES Made FROM REEPSARES Beatrice S. Poelman Waar memento have you tucked away in a box growing discolored and unattractive as the years go by? Is it a bit of lace that grandmother wore at her throat, or a pair of worn-out pillowcases embroidered so_ lovingly and painstakingly for your trousseau? Or is it a faded dresser scarf? A pretty jabot or dicky that you were so proud of, too, is hard to throw in the wastebasket. Have I guessed it? You have some of these folded away in the back of a drawer. Well, whatever you have hidden away, why not bring it out in the open for all to admire and enjoy? Let's make a picture out of it! A piece of material embroidered in flowers found among my mother's things after her death, gave me the inspiration to create some _ pictures which have pleased my children and grandchildren. Over the years mother had cherished this piece of embroidery because it was made by her first daughter who died, when just nineteen, at the birth of a baby girl. Knowing how mother felt about this keepsake, I hated to throw it away. Yet the cloth was stained and even falling to pieces where it had been folded so many years. Still, the stitches were neat and the design attractive. What could I do with it? Suddenly the idea came to paint the flowers gold, cut them out, and mount them on an attractive background. I could hardly wait to get started! I found by laying the material over paper I could paint without causing a mess even though some of the paint came through the material. The work went fast, too, because it didn't matter if the gold extended beyond the embroidery as it was to be cut away, | caine eaten Anan ae aed TIA 918 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL anyway. I discovered, too, that when the gold paint dried, the material had more body so it could be cut more easily and did not fray. I cut a piece of cardboard the size of the picture needed for the frame I wanted to use and mounted the cloth background on that. (I used glue around the edges and some through the center. Any library paste or rubber cement can be used.) The first picture I made I used an off-white brocade damask for the background upon which the gold flowers had quite a French air. Since then I have used various colors of velvet, faille, satin, and even wool upholstery. They all make interesting pictures, but, with the light-weight materials, care must be taken not to use too much glue or it comes through the material. I have mounted these by cutting the material larger than the cardboard and fastening the overlapping edges to the back with masking tape. Now comes the fun of working out a design! The pieces of gold embroidery or lace, whether flowers or conventional designs, suggest patterns as you move them around on the background, and before long something interesting will be developing whether it be a dainty wreath or a bold conventional design. And some grandchild will love a picture made from grandmother's old dresser scarf or neck-piece. A few hints I have found helpful: (1) Make the complete design before gluing, then place a spot of glue under the piece by means of a toothpick. Not too much glue is needed. (2) Holding the design so that it can be seen in a mirror helps to see if the design is symmetrical better than looking at it directly. (3) If it is necessary to change the position of a design and some glue shows on the background, let it dry completely, then remove it by stroking along the grain of the material with a needle point. (4) Spraying the gold on is not as economical as brushing it on or even using a piece of cloth with which to rub it on. 919 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL cbristmas comes In COIOR Florence S. Jacobsen Front Door Decoration Wide red satin ribbon wrapped around the door on which is mounted a large handmade red felt mitten filled with red and green wrapped Christmas gifts. The mitten is significant in that it extends a welcoming, warm hand of fellowship and has been traditionally re-used annually for many years on the Jacobsen front door. Mantel and Tree The traditional gréen tree is decorated with tiny white lights, red shiny balls, and crystal prisms. One red ball is a music box which plays "Silent Night." Green net is poked and fluffed around the stem and base of the tree. Red felt stockings, the oldest of which is the same age as the Jacobsen's eldest married son, are over the fireplace. Stockings have been made and added each year as the family increased in number. Felt initials indicate the names of the family members. Red candles, green Christmas boughs, and glowing lighted fruit are arranged to frame a picture of the manger scene. The oblong manger print is framed in gold and mounted on red velvet in an oval frame edged with tiny green leaves and fruit. The picture of the humble birth of the Savior is the focal point in the entire decorating scheme. 921 Christmas Tablecloth Handmade Christmas tablecloth of white felt is bordered with gold braid and fruit motif. Each fruit cluster surrounds a tiny Christmas light to give it an unusual glow. The centerpiece consists of fruit which also lights up, repeating the theme of Christmas boughs, candles, and glowing fruits. The felt cloth has been traditionally used on the Jacobsen's table for many years and was made by Sister Jacobsen. 922 the christmas TREE WEARS ROSES Green pine tree, flocked with artificial snow. The roses are made of tissue paper in light blue and pale blue and dark and light green. The roses are arranged in various groupings, using different combinations of color tints in each group. They provide an inexpensive trimming. Christmas tree lights are blue and green. Cannon children in the picture: Ann, seated on the floor: Carolyn: Allison. 923 TREE CECORATED BY VIRGINIA CANNON TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL olo-Fashioned HaRotack Canoy Fran Dunford TREE DESIGN 8Y HELEN TRIPP AND SYONEY CALDER OF SOUTH DAVIS STAKE Line the bottom of a 9"x13" pan with aluminum foil. In a heavy 3-quart pan, place: 2 c. Sugar, 1 c. Water, 2/3 ce. White syrup. Cook to 275°F. (between the soft crack and the hard crack stage). Remove from the stove and add coloring (yellow, red, or green, as desired). Add ¥% tsp. Oil flavor, such as cloves, cinnamon, anise (licorice), wintergreen, or peppermint. Pour mixture on aluminum foil in pan previously prepared. As the candy starts to cool, mark it off into rectangles or squares, as desired. After the candy is completely cool, turn it out onto waxed paper and break into pieces. A colorful decorative Christmas tree for a_ table centerpiece, or for decorating the mantel can be made by shaping a little tree with circles of chicken wire crisscrossing around the center dowel stick. The tree in the picture was made of chicken wire, and sprayed with gold paint. The colorful candy is then placed in plastic bags, tied with bright ribbon, and hooked (with regular ornament hangers) to the wires of the tree. The size of the dowel stick and the weight of wire used would depend upon the size desired in the finished tree. The number and size of the bags of the candy could be planned to suit the size and purpose of the tree. TRANSPARENCY BY VERNON SHARP TREE DESIGN BY FLORENCE © WILLIAMS TRANSPARENCY BY VERNON SHARP A Table Tells THE christmas stORy A Christmas table can be made decorative and appropriate for gracing the holiday festivities by planning in advance a unique design. This table is covered with a dark green fringed cloth. The groundwork around the tree is composed of various fruits and nuts arranged on greenery. (Holly, pine boughs, Oregon grape, or artificial greenery could be used.) Apples or oranges could be used for accent, and the fruit may be iced or dipped for a sparkling effect. For the tree foundation (trunk and branches) styrofoam can be used, or the tree can be made of wire covered with heavy paper oF cardboard. A small carved wooden tree would he effective when beautifully decorated. Fruits and nuts are attached to the tree with icing, heavy syrup, honey, or, if only nuts (or nuts and cones) are used they may be attached with glue. 925 aa? — bd rR 2 ee = me 4 eo a ORT Lg: ee... Phe Japanese Scene Bedtime Hawaiian Luau Talents in Action { | A Canoy bouse FOR | christmas 928 TRANSPARENCY BY CAMERA CLIX A 'snow-covered'? House, decorated "with candy and placed in a setting of trees and hills and snowdrifts, will delight the children at Christmastime. It would be appropriate for placing on a wide mantel or a low table, or might be used as a centerpiece for the dining table. A child would feel a spirit of joyful appreciation if he could have a Christmas house for his own room. A CANDY HOUSE FOR CHRISTMAS The house can be made in various sizes, with ''luscious'' landscaping, and with an amazing number of decorative motifs and figurines readily available. Many such ''color and crystal'' houses are made of a combination of edible and inedible "'ingredients,'' and if the making of the house and arranging its setting can be a family project, each child will participate with great originality. The Setting: For the groundwork, use a large tray, a piece of glass, a box top, or a piece of heavy cardboard, depending upon the size of the house and the extensiveness and type of landscaping. The Ground Cover may be white confetti, cotton or wool batting, styrofoam, or such edible materials as popcorn or icing made by one of the recipes included with these directions. The creative Christmas homemaker will think of many variations. The ''snow'' can be heaped into hills, formed: into stream channels, or heaped up around a little lake or pond or skating rink. The water can be represented by a clear surface of the foundation glass or tray, or a piece of aluminum foil can be cut to an appropriate shape. Even a piece of blue tissue paper can be used as surface for a pool or to outline the course of a stream. Decorating the landscape: Fences, grottos, paths, trellises, trees, figurines (of Santa Claus, carolers, reindeer, Wise Men, shepherds) may be arranged to make the scene glow with Christmas atmosphere. For steps and paths, for edging the lake or the stream, use small or large marshmallows or a combination of both in various colors, or try a design of jelly mints (square or rectangular or round) or use the "rock candies,'' which so closely resemble real stones. For fences, try licorice sticks, stick candy, or make a ''wheel'' fence of small doughnuts or cookies pressed halfway into the "Snow.'' Cranberries or Maraschino cherries can be fitted into a matrix made of icing. The figurines may be dolls, carolers, Wise Men, shepherds, Santa Claus, sleighs, skaters, or reindeer, and they may be made of candy, cookie dough, or they may be ceramics. Colorful Christmas motifs can be cut from last year's Christmas cards and pressed into the ''snow'' foundation, or the people from cutout books can be assembled. Trees may be made of cookie dough and decorated with glistening sparkle candies, or they may be cut from craft paper, or clipped from the trimmed branches of the big Christmas tree. Making the house: Use a cardboard box or carton (turned upside down) in the size desired for the walls of the house and cut doors and windows. The sloping roof and the gabled ends, as well as the chimney, can be cut from cardboard and fastened securely together with adhesive tape. For filling in the window spaces, use light blue paper or aluminum foil, or if the house is small, pieces of flat candy can become windows. A little door can be made by covering a piece of cardboard with foil or cutting the dimensions from colored heavy-grade craft paper, or a door can be shaped from cookie dough. Cover the house thickly with icing made from one of the following recipes, or use a recipe of your own. Be sure that the icing contains syrup or egg white, so that the decorations will stick to the surface. If either of these icings is used for snow, the icing can be a little less solid. The icing used to cover the house must be quite solid. The texture can be easily adjusted by adding confectioners' sugar for making the icing thicker, or adding white syrup or beaten egg whites for making it thinner. Then assemble your variety of colorful candies or candied fruits or fresh cranberries, or Maraschino cherries, nuts or raisins, and decorate your Christmas house with anticipation and originality. 929 NO COOK FONDANT 1/3 cup soft butter or margarine 1/3 cup light corn syrup 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 4 1/2 cups (1 pound) sifted confectioners' sugar Blend shortening, light corn syrup, salt and vanilla in large mixing bowl. Add sifted confectioners' sugar all at onée. Mix all together — first, with a spoon; then with hands, knead dry ingredients. Turn onto board and continue kneading until mixture is well blended and smooth. Makes about 1 1/3 pounds. Store in a cool place until ready for use. MARSHMALLOW ICING 3/4 cup granulated sugar 2 envelopes~unflavored gelatin 2/3 cup cold water 1 cup light corn syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla extract Blend sugar and gelatin in saucepan, stir in water.. Place. Over low -heat, stirring until sugar and gelatin are dissolved. Pour light. Corn syrup. In a large bowl (3 to 4-quart) of electric mixer or mix by hand: Add vanilla, gelatin, and sugar mixture to light corn syrup, and beat about 15 minutes or.. Until mixture. Becomes thick and of a marshmallow consistency. A Word Mabel Jones Gabbott A word fell among us ricocheting, left then right; Across the room our eyes met, and the word made a pool of light, Pushing the edge of wonder wide and wider; illumining racks of rue And doubt with finite understanding in infinite ways. And only we knew. 930 —. A al. Ae "y - bee " say. Ae iz sy os am | et CHRISTMAS SEALS a needed gift Dr. James E. Perkins Managing Director, National Tuberculosis Association id ~ F - _. A lot of statistics are walking around town these days. What | refer to is the large number of people who, if they had been born a few decades earlier, would have become ill — and in many cases would have died — of a grim disease called tuberculosis. But thanks to Providence, medical advance, and the dedicated efforts of many people, these ''statistics'' are in the alive-and-well column today, going very humanly about their business. In the sixty years since the National Tuberculosis Association was founded, the TB death rate in the United States has been cut drastically; the total number of people saved from dying of tuberculosis is estimated at about nine million. But a sizeable problem still remains to be faced, with more than 53,000 new cases of active TB and 10,000 relapses yearly, and with a rise in other respiratory diseases. This does not in the least diminish the importance of what has been accomplished. But the job is not finished. World wide, Christmas Seals are helping to get the job done. As we celebrate this Sixtieth Anniversary year of the National Tuberculosis Association, we wish to voice our thanks to the many devoted persons in the fields of government, industry, labor, medicine, and health, civic and church work who have lent their support in the still uncompleted struggle to contro! Tuberculosis and other respiratory diseases. This life-saving work is supported only by your voluntary service, and financed only by your Christmas Seal contributions. Please answer your Christmas Seal letter today and give generously. 931 W Hat would you like for Christmas more than anything else?" Danny, my five-year-old son asked, as he slid into a chair by the kitchen table on which I was busy cutting out a red Christmas apron. He had just come in from kindergarten and I felt that to him it was a very important question. It had to do, I was certain, with something he was making at school. "Oh," I said, "I'd like a new automatic washer, a new dryer, a set of new dishes, a bright red Christmas dress, with a bit of sparkly trimming, a dishwasher, a sewing machine, a pancake turner, a waste paper basket...." Danny was no longer listening. He had suddenly dived under the table. When I again started cutting, 932 Kathryn E. Franks my small son sneaked back upon the chair and settled himself. He continued questioning. "Tf you had a new washer in your bathroom, what color would you like it to be?" "Pink!" I answered quickly, "to match the new walls." This brought such brightness to his face I thought the sunlight had burst through the kitchen window. He popped from his chair and simply cart-wheeled straight out of the kitchen. Danny didn't mention the subject again for several days, although it was continually on my mind. I was anxious to find out what in the world he could be making. I gave up. There was no use guessing. Then a clue came the evening before the school program. "I need some wrapping paper for my gift," Danny reminded me at bedtime. "Will you find a pretty piece and put it out with my school clothes? Don't forget, please." I did as he asked. But the next morning he came in and informed me that one sheet wasn't enough. "T need two or three sheets," he announced proudly. Good land, I thought, what could he be wrapping that would take all that paper! He brought the gift home in his friend's car. He ordered me to hide in the kitchen while he hid it under his bed. I promised not to peek, and a promise is a promise. Although the dust, shoes, and socks collected, I neither vacuumed nor swept under his bed. The next day we brought the Christmas tree and placed it by the front window. Excitedly we decorated it, with my son hanging too many ornaments on one limb, making it hang down limp, and not enough on another so a vast emptiness showed in one spot. The branches, nevertheless, cast their fragrance of pine throughout the house, bringing the reverence of the season. The gift from underneath the bed was the first one brought out and placed under the tree. It was big and round, all his arms could reach around. I held my breath, for it was so flimsily wrapped I felt the gift itself was going to peek out any minute.... If his hands didn't stop rearranging it under the tree, it certainly would come apart. First he placed it in front, then he changed it to the THE CHRISTMAS GIFT back. This didn't satisfy him, so he set it at an angle under an overhanging branch. "It's light," I told my husband later that evening, "for anything the size and shape of an old butter crock." Own Christmas morning as I hurried into the living room, Danny rushed to the tree and grabbed his gift for me and thrust it into my hands. My hands shook as I tore apart the paper and ribbons. "Look," I exclaimed, holding it up, "a beautiful pink fingerpainted wastepaper basket.'' My face, I'm sure showed my excitement. Surprisingly enough, it was a large ice-cream carton covered with his own hand-painted deer and other Christmas designs. I was childishly delighted. "Do you like it?" my son asked, forgetting to look at his own gift under the tree. "Like it," I said, hugging him, "T love it." After the gifts were unwrapped he came over to me with a worried look, and said, ''But, Mother, you didn't get an automatic washer, a sewing machine, or a red dress. Why are you so happy?" "I'm happy," I answered, holding him from me where I could get a good look at the five-yearold size of him, "because I got a wastepaper basket, a pink, handpainted, decorated one, that exactly matches my bathroom walls." At that he simply cart-wheeled over the discarded Christmas wrappings right into the branches of the Christmas tree. 933 We 3 a DI Oa Lucy Andrews Lives in a World of Handiwork Lucy Andrews, Driggs, Idaho, has explored to its many corners the fascinating world of handicraft. She thinks of form and color and design and texture in personal terms: ''What can | make now?" Her knitted afghans are famous in her home valley and her numerous articles of crocheting grace the homes of her friends and relatives. One of her specialties is making baby quilts, and she says she loves "the rising generation.' She makes braided and crocheted rugs in colorful designs and in sizes for every room in the house where a rug is needed. When she has some time left over from her handicraft activities, she writes letters to friends and relatives living afar in many places, including Alaska and England. She is mother of five children, grandmother to seventeen, and great-grandmother to twenty-four. Her many years of devoted Relief Society activities have included service as counselor, work meeting leader, secretary, and visiting teacher, and she regards Relief Society as her ''second self.'' 934 T Lesson Department HEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 62 — The Revelation on Priesthood (continued) (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84:43-120) For First Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To appreciate that the Lord has provided many ways by which man may know and understand the plan of salvation and HEARKEN TO THE SPIRIT The call is sent forth in Section 84 that all people should give careful heed to the words of eternal life, and to live by every word that comes from God. (Verses 43-44.) They are reminded that the word of the Lord is light and truth and that this enlightenment comes from the Spirit of Jesus Christ. (Verse 45.) Those who hearken to this Spirit come unto the Father, and then the Father teaches them of the covenant and gives them a testimony of the truth. (Verse 48.) But the Spirit of Christ prepares the person for acceptance of the fulness of truth. Every man that comes into the world receives light from that Spirit. (D&C 84:46; 88:11-13.) the. Latter-day Saints. The place of the Priesthood in the plan. With the understanding that everyone is a child of God in the spirit, we recognize why the Lord gives to all of his children a guide to lead them unto all truth. The function of this Spirit and its universality are enumerated by President George Q. Cannon as follows:. It is a Spirit that pleads with men to do right. The heathen have it. There is no degraded Indian in these mountains or valleys who does not have a portion of that Spirit pleading with him to do that which is right. It pleads with all the heathen, the Pagan as well as the Christian; the Methodist and Baptist a3 well as Everywhere throughout the earth where man dwells this Spirit rests upon him. It comes from God. It pleads with man to do right. It pleads with man to resist the blandishments of Satan. No man ever did a wrong but that Spirit 935 DECEMBER 1964 warned him of it to a greater or less extent (Journal of Discourses 26: 191). This Spirit should not be confused with the Holy Ghost which is given to those who obey the principles of the gospel and have hands laid upon their heads for that gift. (Acts 5:32; John 14:16-17.) ~ THE RIGHTEOUS AND THE WICKED In connection with the important truth that all men have to a greater or less extent the Spirit of the Lord which enlightens them and gives them power to discern between right and wrong, it must be known that, through succumbing to the enticings of Satan, sin is perpetuated. Each individual, to some degree, is in the bondage of sin, and, therefore, in need of repentance. The Lord desires that his children understand the need for their acceptance of the fulness of truth. It is only by the atonement of Jesus Christ that sin is forgiven by obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel. That person who does not come unto Jesus Christ in the manner he has prescribed, continues to remain under the bondage of sin or spiritual death. On the other hand, the person who has accepted Jesus Christ through his Priesthood has come into spiritual life, which is the state of the righteous. President Joseph F. Smith has set this forth in these words:... Now, all the world today, I am sorry to say, with the exception of a handful of people who have obeyed the new and everlasting covenant, are suffering this spiritual death. They are cast out from the presence of God. 936 They are without God, without gospel truth, and without the power of redemption; for they know not God nor His Gospel. In order that they may be redeemed and saved from the spiritual death which has spread over the world like a pall, they must repent of their sins, and be baptized by one having authority, for the remission of their sins, that they may be born of God (Conference Report, October 1899, page 72). UNBELIEF AMONG THE SAINTS Notwithstanding the saint has come into spiritual. Life, he may lose the influence of the Holy Ghost due to sin. When Section 84 was received, the inhabitants of Zion had not paid necessary attention to the revelation and the inspired writings in The Book of Mormon. The consequence of this neglect and unbelief was darkness of mind. (Verses 54-56.) Escape from this condemnation was open to Zion on condition that she abide by the teachings of the revelations and not talk about them only. (Verse 57.) Repentance would bring forth results beneficial to them, but slothfulness would bring a scourge and judgment. (Verse 58.) SIGNS FOLLOW THE BELIEVER The elders addressed in this revelation were to go into the world testifying unto all that, as they accepted the first principles and came into the kingdom of God, the Holy Ghost would be received. (D&C 84:62-64.) The Lord then indicated that various signs — wonderful works, casting out devils, healing the sick, etc. — would follow the believer. (Verses 65-72.) A very important admonition was given the elder and member who participated or received such a blessing. But a commandment I give unto them, that they shall not boast themselves of these things, neither speak them before the world; for these things are given unto you for your profit and for salvation (Verse 73). Miracles have been in the Church of Jesus Christ in all dispensations. The spiritual gifts of the Holy Ghos:, one of which is miracles, are a part of the fulness of the gospel. (D&C 46:21.) That signs follow the believer is well known to the Latter-day Saint for thousands of saints can testify that these blessings have been received. We may correctly say that miracles (signs) are a characteristic of the true Church. Miracles in and of themselves, however, are not evidences of the truth. Men are not saved in the kingdom of God by miracles. As stated by President Brigham Young: The Latter-day Saints and every other person who is entitled to salvation, and all except those who have sinned against the Holy Ghost, may know that Jesus is the Christ in the same way that Peter knew it. Miracles do not give this knowledge to mankind, though they may serve as collateral evidence to strengthen the believer. The miracles of Jesus were known to the Jews, yet they suffered him to be put to death as a deceiver of mankind and one possessed of a devil (Journal of Discourses 10:193). What means are at the disposal of the saint that he may tell his friends how to distinguish between the genuine and the spurious representative of God? Healing is only one of the many parts of the gospel of Jesus Christ. To say that any one of the principles LESSON DEPARTMENT or ordinances is the gospel would be erroneous, and to believe that because an organization has an ordinance, such as baptism, that it is the true church would be equally false. The key to discerning which is the true church may be stated thus: When all of the principles and _ ordinances, as taught by Christ, are combined in the one organization, there the true Church exists. For our present purpose, if a healing is effected in an organization where all of the truths of the gospel are not taught, then that organization does not have the power of salvation in it. The purpose of the gospel of Christ is to make exaltation in the celestial kingdom possible. If the authority to administer the saving principles and ordinances of the gospel is not present, then there is no exaltation possible. THE LABORER! S WORTHY OF HIS HIRE With the command that the entire world should have the message of salvation taught to them (D&C 84:75-76), the Lord counseled his servants that they become as his "friends" of old, to preach the gospel with power. (Verse 77.) As of old, they were to travel without purse or scrip (baggage) to prove the world, for the laborer was worthy of his hire. All of those who would take this commission, if faithful in the discharge of their duties, would neither be weary in. Mind nor in body, and they would not go hungry or without water. They were not to be concerned with the material things of life. For. Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither 937 DECEMBER 1964 do they spin; and the kingdoms of the world, in all their glory, are not arrayed like one of these. For your Father, who is in heaven, knoweth that you have need of all these things. Therefore, let thought for the (Verses 82-84). The morrow take things of itself When Jesus delivered the Sermon on the Mount during his mortal ministry, similar counsel was given to his disciples. (Matt. 6:25-34.) Some writers have criticized this sermon, saying that if this advice were taken by the world, all initiative and progress would be stopped. Clarification of this point is made in The Book of Mormon when the Sermon on the Mount was given on this continent. The resurrected Lord turned to the Twelve Disciples and gave to them this admonition; it was not for the world. Again, in this dispensation, the counsel is not for the world, but for those who are called into his ministry, and, if faithful, the promises will be fulfilled. The following testimony from President John Taylor summarizes the fulfillment of this promise to the faithful.... 1 see men around me in every direction who have travelled thousands and thousands of miles without purse or scrip, to preach the Gospel to the nations of the earth. They have traversed plains, mountains, deserts, seas, oceans and rivers; they have gone forth trusting in the living God, bearing the precious seed of eternal life. It is true they have not been comprehended or understood by the nations, but that does not-alter the fact. Many who went forth in their weakness have returned rejoicing, bringing their sheaves with them, as trophies of the victory of the principles of eternal life that they themselves had communicated. I say there is not an- 938 other instance on record today of like disinterested, affectionate regard for the welfare of the human family as has been manifested by the Elders of this Church. I have travelled thousands and hundreds of thousands of miles to preach the Gospel among the nations of the earth, and my brethren around me have done the same thing. Did we ever lack anything necessary to eat, drink and wear? I never did. God went with his Elders, and they have gathered together his people as they are here today. They have been seeking to carry out the desire of the Lord and the wish of the Almighty in regard to the human family. They were told to go trusting in the name of the Lord, and he would take care of them and go before them, and that the Spirit should go with them and his angels accompany them (Journal of Discourses 14:189). But what of the present? For many years Latter-day Saint missionaries have taken purse and scrip. With the speed-up of missionary work and with existing laws against this practice, the Lord has ruled otherwise, as he did in the meridian dispensation. (Luke 22:36.) In reference to this change, President Charles W. Penrose has said:... Indeed, all my ministry among the people of the world was literally "without purse or scrip." Now I do not say this should be done now. I believe that as circumstances change, the Lord changes his commandments, to correspond "therewith. As Jesus taught, a great many of you who went out in the world took "neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, nor script for your journey, neither two coats, 'for the labourer is worthy of his hire,'" but afterwards he said: "When I sent you out without purse or scrip, did you lack anything? And they said, Nay, Lord,' " but now he said, "He that hath no purse let him get one and he that hath no sword let him buy one." Circumstances had changed. He didn't change, but the circumstances being changed the word of the Lord was different. So in these times conditions have changed very much from those times (Conference Report, October 1921, page 17). TAKE NO THOUGHT BEFOREHAND The Lord also counseled the missionaries of this dispensation to treasure up in their minds the words of life that when the appropriate hour came, the words of life could be called forth. Although they were instructed to take no thought beforehand what they should say, they were to study diligently the revelations necessary to teach the gospel. (D&C 84:85.) The missionary was to "reprove the world of all their unrighteous deeds, and to teach them of a judgment which is to come" (Verse 87). REWARDS AND PUNISHMENT All who assist the Lord's servants will in no wise lose their reward. On the other hand, those who reject his missionaries or who fail to provide for them when required, will find that they have brought themselves under condemnation. (D&C 84:88-91.) It has been decreed, also, that those places that reject the word of the Lord will be condemned, but diligent search should be made in the cities and villages for those who will hearken to the message. (Verses 92-95.) When, in the judgment of the Lord, the world has had its opportunity to accept him through his servants, and as predicted, the world at large will have rejected the message, plagues shall go forth in judgment upon the nations (D&C 84:96-97; 63:32-37; 45:26-44.) The earth will be cleansed from wickedness, and in LESSON DEPARTMENT that day all shall know the Lord as the King of Kings. With knowledge of him as their lawgiver, they that remain will lift up their voices in singing the new song given in verses 99 through 102 in Section 84. These verses speak of millennial conditions. Zion is now being built upon the earth in preparation for the Lord's second advent. In time, the city of Zion (New Jerusalem) will be erected to the glory of God. When the Savior comes to establish his kingdom upon the earth, great shall be the joy of the redeemed, who have looked for that glorious day from the beginning. Satan, the archenemy of man, no longer will have influence for he will be bound. The promised restitution of all things (Acts 3:19-21) will have been accomplished in the gathering together into one of all promises and activities planned for the benefit of man. The Zion of Enoch and the Zion of the latter days will meet joyously. (Moses 7:62- 64.) In that day the Lord shall stand on the earth in the midst of his people who have been redeemed by his power. The redeemed shall then send forth their songs of praise to the Most High. CONCLUSION In order that the persons to whom Section 84 was addressed might understand, there is repeated the instruction that the families of the missionaries should be cared for, and the Lesser Priesthood members in that day were to prepare the way for the preaching of the gospel. (Verses 103- 108.) 939 DECEMBER 1964 © The important counsel was given that each man should stand in his own office and none should say unto the other there was no need of him. (Verses 109-110.) In this Priesthood revelation, it is appropriate to observe that the Priesthood, which gives life to the Church organization, marks the difference between the _ true Church of Jesus Christ and the dead fcrms of religion. Section 84 ends with a command that the Bishop of the Church carry the message of warning to certain large cities of the United States. In time, when the cup of iniquity is full, the Lord's power will be manifest, and he shall come to reign with his people. (Verses 111-120.) QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What place does the Spirit of Christ have in the lives of people? 2. Discuss: Miracles are a characteristic of the true Church. 3. Acknowledging that miracles (healings, for example) are performed outside of the true Church, what ways does the member of the Church and his non-member friend have for testing which is the true Church? 4. What is the meaning of "the laborer is worthy of his hire"? 5. Name as many millennial conditions as possible in the song to be sung by the redeemed. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants " a Christine H. Robinson Message 62 — "For the Word of the Lord Is Truth, and Whatsoever Is Truth _Is Light..." (D&C 84:45). For First Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To explain the nature of truth and to show the importance of searching for it constantly. THROUGHOUT the history of the world one of man's greatest quests has been in search of truth. Truth is the motive of the philosophers, the principal promoter of the poets, the compelling quest of the scientists, and the heart of all of man's religious yearnings. 940 The world and all that is in it move forward on the foundation of truth. It is the unchangeable basis of all of life's existence and of-its progress and development. As emphasized in this quotation from the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, the Savior came into the world to restore truth and light. He_established his gospel to lighten our paths through this mortal existence so that we might have life everlasting and have it more abundantly. The Savior's life was the personification of light and truth. He said, "I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life" (John 8:12). What is truth? Although this question has echoed down through the ages we are given the nswer in modern revelation, "truth is knowledge of things as_ ¥ they are, as they were, and_as < they are to come" (D&C 93:24). One of our favorite hymns says: Yes, say, what is truth? "Tis the brightest prize To which mortals or Gods can aspire; Go search in the depths where it glittering lies Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies. *Tis an aim for the noblest desire. (John Jaques, Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 143). |. »« Our most important endeavor in this life is to seek and d apply truth, A fundamental Principle of the restored gospel is that man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge. Wisdom and knowledge are derived from truth. Truth brings progress. It is the foundation of happiness. It is the only path which leads to the full growth and development of the human soul. One of the encouraging facts about truth is that it is all around us and is readily available to all of us who sincerely seek it. Many years ago during a bad LESSON DEPARTMENT storm a cargo ship was driven far out of her course. She was badly disabled and in helpless condition. The tide carried her into a strange bay. The fresh water. Supply was soon exhausted on the ship and the crew suffered the agony of thirst. They dared not drink of the salt water in which they thought their vessel floated. Finally, in desperation, one of the sailors lowered a bucket over the ship's side and against the pleadings of his companions he tasted the beverage they all thought was sea water. To his great joy and amazement the water was fresh, cool, and life-giving. The boat had actually drifted into the mouth of a great river, and fresh water was all around it. The sailors had simply to reach down and accept the new life and strength for which they had prayed. (Jordan, William George: Self Control, page 71.) Like this life-giving water, truth, too, is all around us. If we are wise, like the thirsty sailors, we will reach out for the truth» and make it part of our lives. The Savior said, "And ye shall | know the truth, and the truth shall make you _ free" 8:32). To know the truth~can make us free, free from sin, free from temptation, free from fear, and free to enjoy the glorious blessings and the full development of our talents and personalities. President. Joseph F. Smith said, "If you will learn the truth and walk in the light of truth; ye shall be made free from the errors of men and of crafts; you will be above suspicion and above wrong-doing of every description" (Gospel Doctrine, page 10). 941 | (John / DECEMBER 1964 In order to enjoy the rich blessings which come with truth it must be applied and acted upon. Elder Richard L. Evans said, "There is no more virtue in the mere possession of truth than there is in the mere possession of = "2 Tt Megs we eee gf ans &, Fa ji Pd. F food. Neither will save a man unless he uses it and uses it wisely." Certainly, the word of the Lord is truth and we, his children, should seek it constantly and apply it to our lives. WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2 — The Eternal Family (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, February 1965 Objective: To consider the present and ultimate status of the family that we may guide ourselves and our children to that eternal THE FAMILY — A BASIC UNIT OF SOCIETY No subject is of greater interest or concern to the Latter-day Saint mother than that of the present status and ultimate destiny of the family. As the mother of a family, her concern is a natural one, for to her, family means home. It means husband and children. It means protecting care, and it involves all the emotions of human relationship that bind and endear one to another. 942 destiny intended by the Creator. We know, from observation, that the family is of utmost importance to organized society; that communities are made up of families; that nations are an aggregation of communities; and that the world-family is the sum total of its multiple nations. Thus, the family, the producer of society, is its basic unit. Those governments which have attained a high place in the world's history have been those which have given recognition to the home as a fundamental institution. THE FUNCTION OF THE FAMILY From personal experience, we know that the newborn child is almost completely helpless. It can neither speak nor walk. It is wholly dependent upon the assistance of others even to survive. In some cultures, society demands that families give their children certain necessary care. If such is not given, some states assume the right to take children from their families and give them to those who can and will provide that care. Beyond the giving of essential physical care, parents and family members contribute to the development of a child by example and by conscious teaching. Important as schoois have been and are, the home remains the primary educational institution. It is in the home that the child first learns that which he must do to obtain his desired goals; that certain kinds of! Behavierwill bring satisfaction or disapproval. Thus the child becomes oriented. Within the family, and this socialization enables him to develop behavior patterns which will make him an acceptable member of that larger world beyond the circle of the home. If the family is the basic unit of a given culture, then the home is in a position to exert a material influence upon. That culture. The relationship between them is a complex one, each exerting an influence upon the other. It is often said that the strength of a nation is no greater than the strength of its individual homes. We may also say that the morality of a community is the result of the morality of its individual LESSON DEPARTMENT homes. This being so, what a great responsibility rests upon families — upon the parents of those individual families! THE DIVINE AND ETERNAL STATUS OF THE FAMILY How blessed we are, as Latterday Saints, to know that the family organization has eternal status; that in the divine plan of existence, the family occupies a central position. "Our very concept of heaven itself," wrote Elder Stephen L Richards, "'is little more than the projection of the home into eternity." What a glad tiding this is! Surely countless thousands of Christian men and women have yearned and prayed for a reunion with their parents and their children in the life hereafter. The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches that our families will have continuity within the celestial kingdom, provided we fulfill the requirements upon which this great blessing is predicated. This truth leads us to consider seriously the specific require-- ments which must be met in mortal life. Later lessons will emphasize the principles of the gospel which must be carried out by the parents and in the home, if this eternal blessing is: to be realized. In order to understand the function of the family. In fulfilling the divine purpose, it may be helpful to review briefly such phases of our existence as are known to us through revelation. "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," are the words of the Creator, found in Moses 1:39. 943 DECEMBER 1964 Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be (D&C 93:29). And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness.... So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them (Genesis 1:26-27). God is the Father of our spirit bodies, and the next stage in our progression toward immortality, the stage in which we live at present, is that of earth life. With a mortal body we are given the opportunity of having the varied experiences which test our faith, our ability to discern and choose, and our willingness to comply with certain important and divine directives. We are given the opportunity of marriage and parenthood; the opportunity to perform services which will bring satisfaction and enduring joy. After mortal life, and as resurrected beings, we shall be assigned to that kingdom for which our thinking, our faith, and our actions have prepared us. In one sense, the mortal family is in partnership with our Heavenly Father. We assist him, as well as ourselves, in achieving the divine purposes of creation. We do this by bringing other spirit children, who are our spiritual brothers and sisters, into mortal life. It is impossible for us, in this human state, to comprehend fully the extent of the divine love of the Father for these opportunities. Likewise, it is impossible for us to appreciate fully the divine love of our Elder Brother, Jesus Christ, who voluntarily gave his life that we might have immortality and, 944 through obedience, achieve exaltation. THE FAMILY AND THE PATRIARCHAL ORDER The pattern of paternal responsibility for wife and children is known as a patriarchal family system. Throughout the ages of history this family pattern has been variously expressed, too often sadly violating the spirit of the patriarchal order as originally established. In some cultures the father has exercised such complete jurisdiction that he has been known to sell or even put to death members of his family. This is, indeed, a far departure from the plan of the Lord. It was the divine intent, that a father should not only bless the members of his family according to his patriarchal right, but that he also should be a blessing to them. In the kingdom established by the Lord, the family and the powers and authority of the Priesthood are inseparably connected. We read that Priesthood was originally exercised in the patriarchal order; that those who held it exercised their powers first by right of their fatherhood. It is so with the great Elohim. This first and strongest claim on our love, reverence and obedience is based on the fact that he is the Father, the Creator, of all mankind. Without him we are not, and consequently we owe to him existence and all that flows therefrom — all we have and all that we are.... But as men on earth cannot act in God's stead as his representatives without the authority, appointment and ordination naturally follow (Smith, Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, 1956 ed., page 147). In fact, the Priesthood which prevailed from Adam to Moses was the Patriarchal Order... "the direction of the Church in those days was by patriarchs" (Smith,- Joseph Fielding: Doctrines of Salvation, III:104). We may add that one of the greatest contributions derived from ancient scripture is its historical and doctrinal ''support of the unity of the family in the patriarchal order" (Richards, Stephen L: Where Is Wisdom, page 6). It is evident from the following scriptural excerpt, that Abraham was familiar with the Patriarchal Order. That he desired the blessings of the fathers and the right whereunto he should be ordained to administer the same, is confirmed in the Book of Abraham, 1:4: "I sought for mine appointment unto the Priesthood according to the appointment of God unto the fathers concerning the seed." Through recent courses of study concerning the relationship of Priesthood to Church government and to the home, Relief Society sisters are aware of the fact that our Father's "'house is a house of order." They know that the Priesthood represents the authority given by the Lord to his worthy sons to carry out various ordinances and to represent him in various ways. It entitles the bearer to guidance in presiding over his family. If, however, the husband who holds the Melchizedek Priesthood is to receive divine sanction and the blessing of the Lord, he must preside according to righteous principles. If the family is to enjoy eternal continuity, certain ordinances, including temple marriage, which LESSON DEPARTMENT involve the wife as well as the bearer of the Priesthood, must be performed. Both must be worthy and their worthiness must be maintained in faith and with obedience to the covenants made. GOSPEL TEACHING — A FAMILY FUNCTION And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God.... But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14-15). From the viewpoint of gospel teaching, the function and _ responsibility of the family go far beyond that of equipping the child physically to meet the world. The home should prepare him to meet life with faith in himself, and with a feeling of security and courage. Especially should he be equipped with a firm belief that he is a child — a beloved child — of God. SUMMARY The family is the basic unit of organized society. As such, it carries the responsibility of being an influence for good upon that society. Through ancient and modern revelation we know of the divine and eternal status of the family, and that by complying with certain designated requirements, the family, as such, may continue throughout eternity. As believers in the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is our responsibility and our privilege to share in this great and eternal joy. 945 DECEMBER 1964 THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In what concrete ways can our families influence the community for good? 2. How can we help our children realize the importance of family continuity in the eternity? 3. How can we help our children understand that divine commandments are given as a guide and a blessing, and not as arbitrary restrictions? 4, Many people attend Church from their childhood on, yet they do not get married in the temple. Why is this? LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 6 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature — Part II (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 111-280) For Third Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness. Tue lesson for this month centers attention on four short stories: "Birthday Party" by Katharine Brush, "The New Dress" by Virginia Woolf, "The Dry Rock" by Irwin Shaw, and "Quality" by John Galsworthy. All four stories, with generous comments on each, are printed in full in the literature text, where they should be studied. Fortunately, one of the four stories, "Birthday Party," is short enough that it can be included in full in this lesson: BIRTHDAY PARTY by Katherine Brush They were a couple in their. Late. Thirties, and they looked un- 946 mistakably married. They sat on the banquette opposite us in a little narrow restaurant, having dinner. The man had a round, self-satisfied face, with glasses on it; the woman was _ fadingly pretty, in a big hat. There was nothing conspicuous about them, nothing particularly noticeable, until the end of their meal, when it suddenly became obvious that this was an Occasion—in fact, the husband's birthday, and the wife had planned a little surprise for him. It arrived, in the form of a small but glossy birthday cake, with one pink candle burning in the center. The headwaiter brought it in and placed it before the husband, and meanwhile the violin-and-piano orchestra played "Happy Birthday to You," and the wife beamed with shy pride over her little surprise, and such few people as there were in the restaurant tried to help out with a pattering of applause. It became clear at once that help was needed, because the husband was not pleased. Instead he was hotly embarrassed, and indignant at his wife for embarrassing him. You looked at him and you saw this and you thought, 'Oh, now, don't be like that!'' But he was like that, and as soon as the little cake had been deposited on the table, and the orchestra had finished the birthday piece, and the general attention had _ shifted from the man and the woman, I saw him say something to her under his breath—some punishing thing, quick and curt and unkind. I couldn't bear to look at the woman then, so I stared at my plate and waited for a long time. Not long enough, though. She was still crying when I finally glanced over there again. Crying quietly and heartbrokenly and hopelessly, all to herself, under the gay big brim of her best hat. Comments on "Birthday Party'' Katharine Brush (1902-—) is an American journalist, novelist, and short-story writer. Although her work is popular, it is also of excellent quality, as the preceding story shows. "Birthday Party" is a very short short-story, but a whole drama of life is compressed into its three little paragraphs. The two qualities that have always LESSON DEPARTMENT characterized short stories—brevity and unity—are seen here in exaggeration: the goal of a short story writer having always been to use words economically and to make them all pertain to a central theme or mood or character portrayal. Note how precisely each word is chosen in this story, 'as precisely as if it were a lyric poem. From an Aristotelian point of view, the little story is artistically almost flawless. The scene presented in the story is not pretty. Obviously the marriage has gone sour and neither husband nor wife is happy, at least not this day. It is as if the skin of life had been peeled back exposing the raw sore of a marriage failure, or at least a nasty marriage quarrel. The most interesting point for discussion is to see how the author has in a few deft phrases suggested the source of the marriage problem. Note how basically different the husband and wife are. The "fading pretty" woman apparently is sentimental, romantic, nostalgically looking to the past and trying to hold on to the romance that is also fading. The husband is brusque and practical. But is the problem simply that they are different? Who is the villain of the little story? That the husband is cruel is obvious. He deliberately says cutting words to his wife, deliberately hurts her. Such action is, of course, inexcusably mean and crude—especially since he knows that his wife has tried to do something sweet for him. But is the wife also at fault? Obviously the husband is unfeeling towards his wife's wishes and 947 DECEMBER 1964 needs. Is she also unfeeling towards his? If she really loved and understood him, if she really thought of him and not of herself, would she plan a public party for his birthday? Wouldn't she know that such a party would embarrass him? Wouldn't she realize that he would be annoyed by a public display of personal sentiment? Note on the Other Stories The remaining three stories covered by this lesson are too long to be printed here and will need to be studied in the lterature text. All that we can do here is comment briefly on them to show how they, too, expose the evil of selfishness and, directly or by implication, affirm the ideal of unselfishness. Comments on ''The New Dress'"' Virginia Woolf (1882-1941), author of "The New Dress," is one of the most gifted of English short-story writers. "The New Dress" is written in the third person. It takes place entirely within the mind of Mabel Waring, letting us know her thoroughly, perhaps even more thoroughly than we know ourselves. Principally the story is a character sketch, or personality study—revealing Mabel as a very selfish woman, and therefore a very limited and unhappy woman. Having the right attitudes may not be everything in the world, but it is certainly one of the most important things. Two people can have essentially the same jobs, same incomes, same_ environ- 948 ments, same experiences—yet one will be happy and the other unhappy. The difference is attitude. Two writers can look at the same world around them with the same mixture of good and evil, of the beautiful and the ugly—yet one will react to it optimistically and the other pessimistically. The difference is again attitude. Whether we are happy or unhappy, optimistic or pessimistic, affirmative or negative, appreciative or fault-finding, pleasant or sour depends not so much on external incidents as on inner attitudes. Unfortunately, some people are like Mabel Waring. She is painfully self-conscious and unhealthily self-pitying. In her extreme introversion she spends all of her time imagining what others are thinking about her, and generally imagining the worst. She is so concerned with herself and her appearance that she can think of nothing else, do nothing constructive. Obviously she needs to follow the advice of Christ and forget herself in the service of others, thus finding herself by losing herself. One might say that she has an extreme inferiority complex. But there is something strange about an inferiority complex: It is also a superiority complex. Mabel is so obsessed with feeling sorry for herself that she thinks other people spend their time pitying her, when the truth is that other people probably are not even aware of her much of the time. An egoist, even a selfpitying egoist, is generally deep down inside also an egotist. And so Mabel goes on year after year seeing herself as a drab fly try- ing to crawl over the edge of a saucer with all the beautiful butterflies looking on and scorning her. If one has tendencies to be like Mabel, great strength of will is necessary to throw off the selfpity and develop a healthy attitude toward oneself and one's environment. But it can be done. The first step is to recognize the tendencies, and the second step is to exert the constant will power necessary to overcome them. One purpose for including "The New Dress" in the literature text is that seeing the unwholesome qualities in Mabel may help us to detect them in ourselves if they are present. Comments on "The Dry Rock" Irwin Shaw (1913-—) is a gifted contemporary American writer, and his story "The Dry Rock" is a very simple yet very powerful selection. It is easy to read and understand, its characters are distinctly drawn, and its message is explicit. A realistic richness of detail makes it remarkably convincing, effective, and, above all, meaningful. The best way to approach this story is to start with an examination of its characters, all sharply focused and placed in opposition to each other; First there is Leopold Tarloff, the foreign cabdriver—a little old man, pathetically proud, who years ago came from a distant land to a strange city to seek his fortune. Now, years later, he is just a little old man with a small job in a great city. Neither fame nor fortune has come to him, yet he still has LESSON DEPARTMENT what for him was always most important—his simple faith in honor and justice. And in contrast to this little cabby there is young Rusk — arrogant, noisy, disrespectful, and crude. His vulgar, slangy language immediately gives him away as unrefined and coarse. The contrast between Mr. Fitzsimmons and his wife is almost as sharp. Fitzsimmons is moved by the plight of the old cabby and feels a strong duty to stand by him, even at the cost of a quarrel with his wife. He knows that the cabby's cause is just, and he feels a responsibility to do something for him. Mrs. Fitzsimmons, on the other hand, is as little concerned with justice as is Rusk; and her language, although more sophisticated, is just as crude and even more nastily sarcastic. She is utterly selfish. As to principle, of course she believes in it, as long as it doesn't inconvenience her—as long as it doesn't make her late for a dinner party. As the story draws to its close, Tarloff stands all alone—abandoned high and dry on the rock of principle. Only after Fitzsimmons yields to the pressure of expediency and shrugs Tarloff off his conscience does the old cabby wearily know that he is defeated. Even then he maintains some integrity by refusing the ten dollars. One value of such a story as this is that it brings dramatically into focus the need to live by principles. In an age when convenience and rush threaten to shape all our decisions, wherever we live, we need to be reminded that there are principles of hon- 949 DECEMBER 1964 esty and justice and freedom and purity so important that they must remain unviolated at any cost. It is also important to remember that if principles are sacrificed in small situations, they will be so weakened that they will not be strong enough to stand in big situations. Such a reminder, sharply given by this story, should make any _ thoughtful reader forever after a little more sensitive in conscience when confronted with a situation where principle is involved. Comments on "Quality" John Galsworthy (1867-1933), English author of "Quality," is principally known as a novelist (The Forsyte Saga, etc.) but is also an_ excellent short-story writer. The three preceding stories discussed in this lesson all expose, in different ways, the evil of selfishness. In contrast, the old German bootmaker who is the central character of "Quality" is a genuinely good and thoroughly unselfish man, sympathetically portrayed by Galsworthy in such a way as at once to be both admired and pitied—admired for what he is, and pitied for what the world does to him. There is something fine and beautiful and sad about this story. In an age when the emphasis is too much on quantity and too little on quality, when too many people have their eyes focused on what they get out of life rather than what they can give to life, when more and more people want more and more money for less and less work, and too 950 much attention is given to time clocks and salary checks—in such an age this story serves as a poignant reminder that quality workmanship is both rare and valuable. Someone long ago said that he who works with his hands is a laborer, pity him; he who works with his hands and his head is a craftsman, respect him; and he who works with his hands and his head and his heart is an artist, honor him. Surely no one can read this story without gaining a greater reverence for unselfish work and high-quality workmanship. There is a satisfaction in doing good work, not for praise or reward, but for integrity's sake, simply because "a thing worth doing is worth doing well.'"' Such a story as this should make us ashamed of any work that is less than the best we are capable of doing, ashamed of any selfish short-cut or compromise that sacrifices quality — and should make us glow with respect whenever we see work of the highest quality done for its own sake and because of the honesty of the one who does it. For shoddy work is in fact a kind of dishonesty. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In "Birthday Party" what clues and hints does the author give to show the difference between the husband and wife and expose the failure of their marriage? 2. List as many as you can of Mabel's qualities in ""The New Dress" and discuss to what extent these qualities all reflect aspects of selfishness. What could Mabel do to overcome these self-destructive qualities? 38. At the end of "The Dry Rock" whom does Fitzsimmons dislike even more than he dislikes his wife, and why? 4. In every day life are we confronted with situations when we must LESSON DEPARTMENT choose between principle and convenience? Mention some similar. Situations. 5.'In "Quality," what qualities do we most admire in the old bootmaker? SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 19 — The Value of Church Activity For Fourth Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To show that activity in the Church Human beings are expected by their Creator to be actively employed in doing good every day of their lives, either in improving their own mental and physical condition or that of their neighbours (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 9:190). BASIC PHILOSOPHY Religious activity does not begin and end in the confines of a Church structure. Church activity is found in the persistent application of the teachings of Jesus Christ in every human endeavor. Jesus was always "about his Father's business" which was bringing all men back to the presence of the Creator. His was a life of continual service to the children of men. He chose men is essential to the fulness of life. From service in all walks of life to assist him and, through his organization, he extended the opportunity of service to as many as accepted his teachings. From a formal organizational point of view, the Lord has provided unlimited opportunities for Church members to serve. Some of the assignments are small, but all are important to the successful functioning of the total program. The Savior did not confine his activity to the formal structure of the Church organization. Whenever and wherever the opportunity presented itself to relieve suffering, make people happy, and justify their faith, Christ willingly offered his services. He set the example which brings to mind the 951 DECEMBER 1964 "be ye doers of the # quotation, word, and not hearers only.. The spirit of the gospel. Is service tempered with love, faith, and integrity. The effective functioning of Church organization is de- | pendent upon a_ participating membership. It is the active member who grows in belief and faith. The real joy and satisfaction that come from missionary work for the Church come from the complete dedication of the missionary tothe work of the Lord. Every moment in the missionary's day in the field is devoted to the advancing of the plan of life and salvation, giving freely of himself for the welfare and improvement of others. The challenge is for every member to apply the principles of the gospel with a zeal equal to the missionary work and with equal enthusiasm to his daily activities, thus demonstrating to all the truths of our teachings. Church service implies more than filling an assignment or merely doing something for someone. Basic to service is the attitude of mind as demonstrated by the Savior. It»has many facets of expression. Among them are: (1) the voluntary desire to do good; (2) performance for the love of doing good _ without thought of reward; (3) the thought of the welfare of others; and (4) assistance in the building of the kingdom. The main implication in this kind of service is to establish peace in the hearts of men. In this light, service becomes a blessing to mankind. ACTIVITY AND SPIRITUAL GROWTH Our Church leadership has pointed out that officers in The 952 Church of Jesus Christ are called for two distinct purposes: First and foremost, service to the people; and secondly, the personal. Development and enlarged understanding which always - follow earnest service in responsible positions. _ It is an honorable privilege and a personal benefit to be allowed to serve in an official position in the Church; and an office, whatever it may be, should be accepted in a spirit of grateful appreciation. As stated above, an office in the Church is a call to service. Frequently we hear people say, "I am not well enough prepared to fill such an assignment." It is good to be modest and humble, but the better attitude would be, "T am willing to do my best," and then do just that. Doing one's best includes the following: (1) Humility; one must be humble to enjoy the assistance of the Spirit of God. In all callings in the Church, one must recognize that what he is called to do is the Lord's work.. And he can be effective in his calling only when-he works in harmony with the Spirit of the Lord. Prayer is the means of communication with the Lord, and the Holy Ghost can be the source of enlightenment and understanding. (2) Work; it is necessary for one to use the intelligence he has been blessed with and be willing to work long and hard in preparation for the performance of his duties. One very successful inventor has observed that his genius is ninety-nine per cent perspiration and one per cent inspiration. The point is that one must be willing to pay the price of success in any calling in terms of energy expended and hard work. (3) Enthusiasm; one must be enthusiastic about his assignment. Every person should be enthusiastic about his membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is a distinction and an opportunity to be assigned a part in this great latter-day movement. Each person in a position in. This Church is, in a special sense, a witness of: the divine nature of the restored gospel. (4) Worthimess;. It is most obvious that one must be worthy before accepting a call. Worthiness may be evaluated by observing oneself in relation to the following: (a) being a regular participant in the important meetings of the Church; (b) believing in and participating regularly in prayer; (c) being honest with the Lord in tithes and offerings; (d) keeping the law of chastity; (e) sustaining the prophet of God, including no evil speaking of the Lord's anointed; (f) knowing the true value of the Word of Wisdom and applying it; (g) having proper respect for the Lord's holy day; and (h) evidencing his dedication to the accomplishment of the work of the Lord. There may be other criteria but these mentioned will serve as good examples of the requirements of a person to be worthy to hold a position in the Church. Therefore, any person who has a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, who is willing to accept a calling through proper authority, and who is willing to pay the price suggested above, can successfully fill any call that comes to him in the Church. By accepting the opportunity for service in the Church, one cannot help but advance both menLESSON DEPARTMENT tally and spiritually. A major compensation for devoted service is the joy that comes from the witness of the Holy Ghost in enlarging the personal conviction as to the reality of God the Father and his. Son Jesus Christ. THE GROUP EFFECT It is stimulating to think of the potential within each ward. Of the Church manned with some two hundred fifty workers, dedicated to the advancement and general welfare of mankind. If each individual in the ward: could fully qualify under the criteria mentioned above, the influence of such a group could affect for good the standards and values of the whole community. (See Lesson 18.) The building of the kingdom of God on earth will require performance on the part of each member equal to or higher than that suggested in the earlier part of this lesson. To build the kingdom from a material point of view is a problem of effective use of nature's products; but from a human point of view, the challenge is far greater. This requires convincing the men and women of this world that the way of life taught by Jesus Christ is the effective, productive way to live. To accomplish this, the hearts of people must be touched; and the way to their hearts is love and understanding. This requires an army of men and women directed by the power of God who can demonstrate the effectiveness of the gospel plan in everyday living. A CALL TO SERVICE To build an army of workers equal to the task at hand, at least 953 DECEMBER 1964 two things must be done. First, develop_. Among the members a positive attitude toward _acceptance of Church assignments. Every member must have the conviction, without reservation, that he is willing to serve in any capacity, at any time. This is the work of the Lord and we cannot afford to make the Lord wait. This attitude is primarily a product of the home. Secondly, a person must be called to_the office by proper authority. "We. Believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof" (Fifth Article of Faith). In our lessons last year, we pointed out the importance of the method by which a person is called to service. The bishop, stake president, or General Authority interviews the person for worthiness and approves for leadership, while those responsible for the organization to which the new leader is assigned, train him for the specific duties of the calling. A call to service can have therapeutic value to new members and to those who are weak in the faith. Encouragement, therefore, should be given by assigning to them carefully selected areas of service. If small responsibilities are given at first, the individual can develop confidence and receive the warmth in his soul that comes from doing something for others. He thus receives the personal stimulation that comes from being needed,-: the feeling that he is essential to the successful operation of the organization. 954 PRIESTHOOD AND AUXILIARY WORK The responsibility of leadership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints rests in the Priesthood. In an effort to care for the intellectual, spiritual, and temporal welfare of all the members, the Church has added, from time to time, various organizations to provide training in the gospel, meet a variety of human needs, and, at the same time, offer opportunities for leadership to large numbers of members. These auxiliary or assisting organizations have always been responsible to the Priesthood. The Priesthood provides the dynamics of Church organization, yet much of the energy spent inauxiliary work and activity comes from the -women...- Today, more than ever before, Church leadership is expending great effort to coordinate all the activities of the Church with the Priesthood. The valuable work experience gained from the years of auxiliary work has developed many people who are nationally recognized as leaders in the activities of the various age groupings within society. These people, under Priesthood leadership, are formulating auxiliary programs in age groupings that eliminate unnecessary duplication, but give proper emphasis to the essential teachings of the Church to each age group. The coordinating effort of the Priesthood includes more than a study of theology, it relates the religious teachings to all phases of human association. BE YE ONE In discussing the value of Church activity, we must recognize that the term "value" has a dual meaning: (1) the value from the point of view of the individual is unlimited, as has been pointed out. (2) The value of activity to the Church as a whole, is of vital importance. Jesus constantly pointed out to his disciples the importance of service. To Peter he said, ''Lovest thou me?... Feed my sheep."' In the scriptures, old and new, he said, "If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all of my commandments" (D&C 42:29; see also John 14:15, 21). How can we serve God or love him? Simply by loving and serving his children. The whole purpose of Christ's mission was the resurrection and exaltation of mankind. This can be brought about by the constant effort of every disciple of Jesus Christ. It will not be achieved in a moment, or a day, or a year, and it will not be accomplished in the activities of the Sabbath Day only. It will be accomplished when men and women overcome selfishness, bridle their appetites, and perform the tasks of everyday life in the light of religious ideals. © -To accomplish the purpose of Christ's mission, it will be necessary for every member to live the law of consecration, dedicating his time, talents, and other things to the building of the kingdom and establishing righteousness in the hearts of men. Activity in the Church means service to your fellow men. Every man should esteem his brother as himself. (D&C 38:24-25.) For "when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). Service begets love, and love begets unity, and unity begets peace in the hearts of men. CHRISTMAS MUSIC We Have Christmas Music in All Categories: iPIANO MUSIC IN BOOKS AND SEPARATE SOLO FORM. —ORGAN MUSIC. -..-INSTRUMENTAL SOLOS AND DUETS...-CANTATAS AND CHORAL MUSIC. PLEASE INDICATE WHAT CATEGORY YOU DESIRE AND WE WILL SEND A SELECTION ON APPROVAL. Use this advertisement as your order blank [| DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 EAST Ist SOUTH SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111! 1 1 DAYNES MUSIC | | | 15 E. Ist SOUTH | SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH | Use this advertisement as your | order blank | KAD AEE 955 ROSE PARADE TOUR 8 days — December 27 to January 3 via Las Vegas and San Diego ROSE PARADE TOUR 9 days — December 26 to January 3 via San Francisco Dinner and dancing at Lawrence Welks' etc. On both Rose Parade Tours. HAWAIIAN TOURS FEBRUARY & MAY 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 363-5229 — 359-8051 Phones: Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop VIAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! % Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, ribbon flowers, satin fruit & many others. Write for new catalog. 50c Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY C0. New Address 3220 So. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 956 "T say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine" (D&C 38:27). THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. How is service essential to salvation? 2. To what extent did Jesus give his services? 3. What is the relation of Church activity to testimony? 4. What is one outstanding value in having a lay leadership? 5. Can the oneness of God the Father and his Son be attained by mankind? REFERENCES Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 38, 42. Discourses of Brigham Young, compiled by John A. Widtsoe, Chapter VII. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2 BY Zone 6..90 Zone 3 60 Zone 7., 1,05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5.80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, 84101. Co 1 PESERET PREwS PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 MUSIC FOR SINGING How Do | Love Thee i.20 23rd Psalm (Schubert) eee 22) O Saviour of the World a 25 Eternal Life See 2 aS God of All Nature >.30 Go Ye Forth With My Word..............25 Abide With Me 0 0.0.20 Onward Christian Soldiers.30 Bridge Builder............20 In His Steps..;.25 Hear My Prayer; -25 Be Ye Strong 25 Gospel Gives Unbounded Strength.30 In My Father's House Are a" Mansions ME ccs ecccee<- =, Solo -...60 SATB 25 SSA Not Published. Music Sent on Approval Write for Our Choral Catalog For All Your Musical Needs Write Gesiro Music Co Box 2009 Idaho Falls, Idaho 83402 JUST OFF THE PRESS! Three Days in the Holy City, Zion by H. 0. Ruf This most uncommon and highly interesting new book contains both a fictional episode out of the future and a - view of conditions that will exist in BOOKCRAFT — Publishers to the L. D. S. Trade. Order from your nearest Bookcraft dealer or from BOOKCRAFT THE HOLY CITY, ZION for which | enclose check or money order for $...00000000 0 | | | | Please send ( ) copies of THREE DAYS IN | | Name. | | GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH TOUR TO GREAT BRITAIN Because of the outstanding success of our 1964 Tour of Researchers to England and Sestland — 15 searching club members — 15 success stories — we have chosen Great Britain for our 1965 Tours. 1. Leave Salt Lake City — Air-Jet May 11 — Return June 21 4 wks. Supervised Genealogy Search in Great Britain Ample supervised preparation before Tour 2 wks. Tour of Scandinavia or Europe All Expense World's Fair — New York City Il. Leave Salt Lake City — June 21 — Return July 26 4 wks. Genealogical Searching in Great Britain Ample Supervised Preparation before Tour 2 wks. Tour of Scandinavia or Europe All Expense World's Fair N. Y. —Hill Cumorah Pageant RESEARCHERS-on-the-SPOT Eleanor M. Hall, Secretary 157 N. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84116 Phone 359-1679 MEXICAN TOUR Departure February 2 ROSE PARADE TOURS Departure Dates: December 26 December 27 HAWAIIAN TOUR December and February Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 957 Lerd Bless Thee and Bere Thee the Holy City of Zion..20 $3.50 Faith Building PERSONALLY-CONDUCTED TOURS THE HOLY LAND AND BOOK OF MORMON LANDS "MURDOCK TRAVEL Your Experienced Travel Counselor " BOOK OF MORMON LAND TOURS Conducted by Murdock Specialist Jose Davila. Jan. 16, 1965 and Mar. 6, 1965. * 16 Exciting Days among such ruins as the Jaredite Pyramids, Izapa, the Mayan Ruins of Tikal, and famous Chichen Itza. * All expenses paid! Quality travel and accomodations! Congenial company! " THE HOLY LAND TOURS April 8, 1965 and October 8, 1965. * 20 days of worry free travel including such places as Istanbul, Damascus, Tyre. Sidon, Cairo, Jericho, Jerusalem, and Athens. * Amazingly low cost travel on top quality carriers! Wer eeresreneeeresrseeseseresersseseeoes Send for full particulars now: Murdock Travel, Inc., 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — Phone: 328-3161 Please send me full particulars on the above mentioned tour(s): OS | eanooe wee errors re rere ese eases seeresseseseoee Again Tonight Chri Across the hills of Bethlehem, | seem to walk again tonight, Accompanied by staff and star And shepherds who had seen the Who followed humbly, questioning This star so luminous and new, So filled with radiance and hope, That I, as they, must find it true. | go with Wise Men richly gowned Who followed, too, and proudly came With gifts of rich magnificence, Marked with his holy, holy name. 958 stie Lund Coles | pause with them beside the stall, Beside the manger's fragrant hay, And see with wonder and surprise, light, The place the dream-eyed baby lay.! Kneel, | tremble at the scene, | whisper humble, gentle prayers; | walk with those of long ago, My spirit tremulous as theirs. My worship is as awe-inspired, My reverence is as deeply wrought. Across a long two thousand years, | find the Savior earth has sought. DON'T MISS THIS! With You 4LDS Books Club, Ine. P.0. BOX 400 © 1188 SOUTH MAIN © SALT LAKE CITY 10, UTAH Please send me as my first selection the following circled books for which | enclose a check or money order for the regular retail price of $ 12-64 | 2 3 4 MY CHOICE BONUS BOOK IS [_] TEENS AND THEIR TIMES [_] MAY PEACE BE WITH YOU Enroll me as a member and start sending me the monthly review so | can decide whether or not | want the choice book described. | hereby agree to purchase a minimum of 4 Books Club selections or alternates during the next 12 months at the regular advertised price. | may resign at any time after buying four books. For each 4 books | accept, | will receive a valuable bonus book free — a savings of 20%. Dithdey Congratulations One Hundred One Ninety-two Mrs. Catherine Jones Erickson Mrs. Nettie» Hunt Rencher Monroe, Utah Snowflake, Arizona Ninety-nine Mrs. S. Jennie Rees Tanner Mrs. Elizabeth Taylor Mcintyre dibehisge Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Alice Grimm Buckmiller Ninety-eight eer Mrs. Adeline Johnson Nyquist ar ae Seapine Weiser, idaho: Mrs. Mary Newman Evans at fn Tooele, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Shields McLaws Ninety-seven eTOOnte.: TAS Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Mrs. Oes peas Salt Lake City, Utah ecnpaitalen' aes Mrs. Ellen Jane Bowen Graham patie ll Salt Lake City, Utah; i Ab: ee gegen EP Le Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Lorenzo, Idaho Mrs. L WwW Sak yr he ue Mrs. Sarah P. Stevenson: Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-fi HS alk Mrs. Virginia Taylor Olson Mrs. Nancy Olive Dawson Helton Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Oakland, California Mrs. Nora O. Sullivan Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi,: A gel Auburn, Wyoming | Mrs. Rosilla E. Osborn; x atic Utah * Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard, Taylorsville, Utah Ninety-f ee Mrs. Emily Ritchie Peterson Mrs. Katie Holladay Cragun Roy, Utah Portland, Oregon. = Mrs. Isabella Augusta Brown Osborne Ninety-three Mill Valley, California Mrs. Emma J. Ottesen Halverson Mrs. Martine Lundgren Leishman Spanish Fork, Utah Baker, Oregon Mrs. Dorthea Larsen Peterson Mrs. Estella Lesser Wright Salt Lake City, Utah Castro Valley, California Mrs. Louisa Nellie Croshaw Gambles Mrs. Evelyn S. Koehler Bancroft, Idaho Menlo Park, California Mrs. Mary E. Wilson Haynie Mrs. Lottie Greenwood Hansen Mesa, Arizona Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Raymond Peart Mrs. Kathryn Marquardson Kirkman Kaysville, Utah Spokane, Washington Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden Mrs. Emily Ritchie Peterson Price, Utah Roy, Utah 960 Anthology of al and Human 95 cents postage ain! Ancient Apostles ty with those n who walke _ Thomas Address: --- °°" Resident of Utah please add 342% sales tax. RS. Dec. "64 71 Soh OR ON oe Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Special Premiums from U and | Sugar.... BOWLS and PANS AT WHOLESALE PRICES! DuPont Teflon for Stick-Free Cooking Chicken Fryer (10), Cover, and Spatula. Value $6.95 With U & | Label. $3.75 MB Griddle (11%4") Value $4.95 $3.50 With U & | Label. $2.25 $2.75 es Bowls, 3 Pieces. Value $4.00 Bowl Set. 4 Bowls with Trans- 4 Piece Aluminum With U & | Label. $2 75 lucent Covers plus Electric Value $2.25 With U & | Label. | Label. U & | Labe $2550 Saute Pan (8"). Value West Bend Stainless Steel Mixing Bowl. Value $4.95 With With U & I Label. Serve-Mix'N Stor Quality Plastic | Party Cake Pans $1 00
