Ma: i ) 3 c;- 4 agazine ae 1965" To each of you, each loved and loving sister, the General Board of Relief Society extends our warmest wishes for a joyous New Year. We acknowledge with gratitude your valued contributions to the success which has attended the work of Relief Society this past year and your support of its programs. Our prayer is that you have received benefit, your life has been blessed, your happiness increased, and your knowledge expanded. As the old calendar comes down, the year 1964 becomes history. One last look at the calendar pages reveals much that is worth remembering, many days to be treasured, and, perhaps, some that brought sorrow. Good memories remain to bring a glow to living. Rewarding growth, both spiritual and mental, becomes evident in an evaluation of a year's activities. Some of the past year may be what Emily Dickinson would call an "amethyst remembrance," jewel bright, with a touch of nostalgia and a whisper 'of melancholy among its beauties. "The past is prologue" Shakespeare elucidates. That which has gone before, the prefatory act upon which what will come is based, may make the future better if wisdom is gained and judgment attained. The new calendar goes up. Twelve new pages appear marked off into 365 days, each of which is full of promise, offering precious time to learn, to do, to achieve. They offer opportunities to give, to serve, to receive, to extend the mind, to enlarge the soul, to fulfill in fuller measure potentialities of character. The new year lies ahead, a pathway to tomorrow. It is well to walk this path with faith. It is wise to observe the guideposts along the way. It is good to walk in the company of family and friends, all with the same worthy destination. It is joyous, indeed, to take the path that Jesus trod and follow in his footsteps. May 1965 bring you greater happiness, finer accomplishment, and more dedicated devotion to the gospel. Our sincere love bears our greetings. Affectionately, Gcw chefs ey (278 a 4 a ey Ay 7 Z: y 4 Y/) as; Tom. /; UML Once a month The Relief Society Magazine comes to my door. It brings me joy and happiness, and even more, dt gives good thoughts the whole day through And lifts my spirits when things go wrong, As they sometimes do. So let us read the Magazine, and 1 pray Our testimonies will be strengthened day by day. Donna' Chadburn Roy, Utah | am a missionary: serving in the Southwest Indian Mission. When we -give the Magazine to our contacts they thoroughly: enjoy it, and it is a great help to us in our -work. There was a young Hopi. Lady who was. Burned very badly and had to stay in the hospital several months. Although she wasn't 'a member, we gave her several issues of the Magazine to read. On our return visit, she -was just bubbling over with enthusiasm, and -she showed us the stories and articles she had enjoyed so much. The happiness and warmth of the Magazine had helped to cheer her spirits and fill the long hours. Eva Kaye Bonner Tuba City, Arizona This is the second year now that some kind and generous people have given me a-year's subscription to the Magazine. | feel so very grateful for these people, even though | do not know whom to thank. | feel a bond of closeness to all the wonderful missionaries who come over here and bring the gospel into our-midst. From the bottom of my heart thanks a lot. | just love to receive the Magazine. It has such a 'store of knowledge in its pages for us all. Joyce E. Ward Rockhampton Queensland Australia Uf Although | am not a woman, and, in fact, have very little to do with the Relief Society, yet | would like to tell you how the Relief Society helps me. 1 am a missionary in the Alaskan-Canadian Mission. Up here'many-of the 'people are not familiar with the Church-and its organizations. The Magazine is an_ interesting, as well as practical way, for the people to-see the Church frem the inside. It is a great aid to. Our missionary labors. Elder Tom Welch Juneau, Alaska | have just received my first copy of our delightful Magazine. As a very recent convert, |-am so pleased to have a source available that is both instructional and entertaining. 1! Have so much to learn, but | am sure the Magazine will help me to gain knowledge of our wonderful Church, and also give me practical help. |! May yet learn to be a decent cook! Mrs.. Barbara A. Ezell Santa -Monica, California I cannot tell you in words how much | enjoy the wonderful stories and lessons in the Magazine. I! Have taken the Magazine for seven years, and haven't missed reading it from cover to cover within a few days after its arrival. | wish that all married women could -have this book in their homes, then perhaps their troubles would not seem so big and important if they had the Magazine to live by and be guided by. Mrs. Evan Coon Erda, Utah As far back as { can remember the Magazine has been a part of my life. In addition to being an inspiration in our home, it has 'also been a real help in preparing short talks for the various meetings we attend. 1! Especially enjoy the poetry and have added many of the poems to my personal collection. —Mrs. Cristel Nielson Sagers Lynndyl,. Utah ¢ k par Speer ts The Relief ey it) SN NSS DE Te EATS oO oS oR Volume 51 December 1964 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features New Year's Greetings General Presidency The Relief Society Organized by Revelation Joseph Fielding Smith — Place of Mothers in the Plan of Teaching the Gospel in the Home Harold B. Lee Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Wind Valley — First Prize Poem | Lenora Hansen Progeny — Second Prize Poem Pearle M. Olsen Love's Gifts — Third Prize Poem Lila Bennett Spencer Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Heart Room — First Prize Story Venda Brown Castleberry The 1965 March of Dimes George P. Voss Fiction 38 Wait Up For Me, Jenny Sara O. Moss 45 Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 4 Mabel Harmer General Features From Near and Far Editorial: The Morning of the New Year Vesta P. Crawford Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of 1964 Magazines Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Laura L. Christensen — Winner of Blue Ribbons Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations Lessons for April 58 Theology — The One Mighty and Strong Roy W. Doxey 63 Visiting Teacher Message -—- '""For They Shall be Judged...." Christine H. Robinson 65 Work Meeting — "Faith, If It Hath Not Works, Is Dead" Alberta H. Christensen 69 Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part III Bruce B. Clark 74 Social Science — The Church Wellare Program Ariel S. Ballif Poetry Snow at Night, by Christie Lund Coles, 6; Old Year, New Year, by Norma Wrathall, 6; Pine Knots and Irritations, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 20; Mothering in Nazareth, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 20; Rosalie, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 33; To an Eight-Year-Old, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 79. The Cover: Silent Brook, Near Spring City, Utah, by Lucien Bown, lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press; Frontispiece: Winter in Wasatch Mountains, by L. Paul Roberts; Art Layout by Dick Scopes; Illustrations by Mary Scopes. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Loke City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-251]; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918 Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts ns £ i fi kg i el) eee ae ae The Relief Society Organized by Revelation Tuis is a wonderful sight. It is a pleasure to stand before this vast congregation of sisters who are actively engaged in the wonderful work of salvation and in strengthening spiritually the good sisters of the Church. The Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely inspired by the Lord to give to the Church such a_ wonderful organization in which the sisters might find a most important activity, an activity which is not only beneficial to those who are called to take part, but to all who hold membership in the Church. They are in very deed sisters of mercy carrying on one of the great departments of the Church in the spirit of humility and faith, which is indeed commendable and inspired. In the days of Paul's ministry, evidently no such organization had been devised. It appears from the reading of the scriptures that in that day there was no place of importance for the sisters. Paul wrote of this condition and said: Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law. 4 President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964) And if they will learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at home: for it is a shame for women to speak in the church (I Cor. 14:34-35). How grateful we ought to be to have the privilege of living in this dispensation when the views have been expanded to be more consistent with divine truth. Moreover, there is a place in the Church in which the wives and mothers can serve. The Relief Society was revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith as a fundamental part of the gospel. Moreover, how grateful we should be for the enlightened age in which we live. The Lord has truly kept his word. Knowledge, according to his prediction, has been increased. The grand opportunity is now before every member of the Church, male and female, to give service and to obtain authority in the building up and advancement of the kingdom of God. All of this is in fulfillment of the prophetic utterances of the prophets of old. The gospel of Jesus Christ is not a system of government, the duties of which are confined solely to those who hold the divine Priesthood. There is a labor for the sisters to per- é rae" SS form, responsibilities assigned to them which they can carry far more expeditiously than could their husbands who hold the divine authority of Priesthood. Nothing has been overlooked or forgotten in the restoration of the gospel. The Lord has provided ways and means by which every soul may find something to do for the advancement of the kingdom of God. There is no place in the Church for idleness. The hymn, "IT Have Work Enough to Do," states this clearly. It was written by Josephine Pollard, and is as follows: J have work enough to do, Ere the sun goes down, For myself and kindred, too, Ere the sun goes down; Every idle whisper stilling With a purpose firm and willing, All my daily tasks fulfilling, Ere the sun goes down. I must speak the loving word, Ere the sun goes down; I must let my voice be heard, Ere the sun goes down; Every cry of pity heeding, For the injured interceding, To the light the lost ones leading, Ere the sun goes down. As I journey on my way, Ere the sun goes down, God's commands I must obey, Ere the sun goes down; There are sins that need confessing; There are wrongs that need redressing, If I would obtain the blessing, Ere the sun goes down. In the restoration of the gospel the Lord did not overlook anything. He says, truthfully, that the "fulness" of the gospel has been revealed. Provisions have been made so that every soul, who will, may find something to do. It appears from the writings of Paul to the members THE RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED BY REVELATION of the Church in Corinth, that in that day there was no place either in civil government or in the Church for activity performed by the sisters of the Church. If they hearkened to the counsel of their husbands, their salvation would be secured. Evidently this was not the thought anciently in Israel, and may have been a condition imposed upon the people in the days of Roman and Greek dominion. We read that in earlier days of Israel women were active and had duties to perform, that there were actually prophetesses among them. Such a _ noted character was Deborah, who is spoken of as being a prophetess unto whom the people went for counsel, and she became a judge in Israel. It appears in the account of the exodus of Israel from Egypt, that Miriam, sister of Moses and Aaron, who is spoken of as being a prophetess (Exodus 15:20), evidently had been given authority, particularly in relation to the affairs of the women of Israel. Now, in this the greatest dispensation of all, because it is the last, the women of the Church are given some measure of divine authority, particularly in the direction of government and _ instruction in behalf of the women of the Church. The Relief Society is well named, for it was organized for the guidance, instruction, and development of the female members. There is no question that the Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely inspired to organize the sisters and give them duties to perform for the benefit and strengthening of the women, 5 JANUARY 1965 spiritually and temporally. Salvation is open to all, both male and female, through the faithful obedience to the principles of salvation. Surely The Church of Jesus Christ would not have been completely organized had not this wonderful organization come into existence. There are so many things that can be performed by the sisters, in nursing, teaching, and giving aid to the sisters in matters spiritually and temporally. This restoration would not have been complete without the Relief Society in which the sisters are able to accomplish a divinely appointed service so essential to the welfare of the Church. May the Lord bless you one and all. Snow at Night Christie Lund Coles This is as near to silence as earth comes — No leaf stirs, birds are still; the stencilled night Seems mesmerized by the motion of the snow, Falling as soft as breath or break of light. The earth is fleeced, there is a sheen before The lamppost near my window; and the trees Stand poised as slim swans just before their flight. The starless sky is colorless as these. The heart grows quiet too before this scene Where a snow-packed wire almost, almost hums, And knows a benediction on this night As near to silence as earth ever comes. Old Year, New Year Norma Wrathall Year's end to year's end, Then the beginning: Old Year to New Night to dawn thinning. Holly and mistletoe Threaded with bliss; Love's golden circlet Sealed with a kiss. So spins our time: loss, Laughter, and tears, Mingled like leaves In the wreath of the years. Thorns will prevail, but Hope dulls their pain; Stars light the dark Until New Day again. Am ted Place of Mothers in the Plan of Teaching the Gospel in the Home [Address Delivered in Presidencies Department, Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964] Moc might be interested to know the nature of the meeting from which Elder Romney and I have just come. We have done as apparently the worthies of another dispensation did. "They went to the House of the Lord and took sweet counsel together," the scriptures say. We have done that since nine o'clock this morning: Having come fasting, we have engaged in the. Holiest order of prayer; we have witnessed a rich outpouring; and I think in the language of the scriptures, "we have to take sweet counsel together."' It is just one of those meetings that brings us nigh to heaven in a place and at a time when we need so much of the blessings of the Almighty. When Brother John A: Widtsoe was alive, he used to tell us of a meeting he held at a stake conference, wherethey asked how long it had been since the Church had received a revelation. He stroked his chin thoughtfully and said, "Oh, probably since lasts Thursday." And that startled them — to realize that here and now, week by week — he knew as Elder Romney and I know — we see evidences of constant; divine guidance. Today we bear that witness to. You sisters, that there has been a real. Outpouring of spiritual-light and truth. _ I am glad that this body of sisters is constituted as youvare, as the presidencies, the leaders; of the Relief Society organizations of the stakes: and mission districts. More and more, I think, we will come to-the time where we must, as General Authorities and general board members, instruct the leaders of the stakes and the missions, and then. Expect you. To be so well schooled that you are prepared and able: to move down to the next level of authority in the wards and branches and so instruct them that they are then prepared to. Instruct the people. Today, you will receive instructions regarding the Correlating Program, about which Sister Spafford in her excellent message which she delivered so ably yes-- terday, spoke to you. Therefore, what I shall say will be in several different categories. JANUARY 1965 First, I sat down the other night and combed through many statements about the importance of the home, to get some sort of "punch lines," if you might call it that, to give to you from the viewpoint of thinkers, leaders in various fields —- how they have construed the importance of maintaining the integrity of the home. Then I am going to move to some scriptures from the various dispensations of the past, to show you how the prophets have schooled the people as to the responsibility of the parents with regard to their children. Then I am going to come down a little closer and bring to you some quotations about Family Home Night, as it has been taught to us, beginning with President Joseph F. Smith, and even statements preceding that time, about our responsibility as parents in the home. And then, finally, to get down to the specifics of the thing that we shortly will have to give to you by way of instructions, by which we hope the parents will be better prepared to do the work which the Lord has commanded them to do. I was at a conference in Idaho, and I shall not talk too specifically about it, because I nearly blundered by speaking too bluntly about the carelessness of this stake in naming a husband and wife to an organization which took them both out of the home, without leaving one or the other there to tend the children; that they ought to be careful and assign a mother to one organization so the father could be home, and then when the father had to be gone, so the mother could be home. Well, I found that I had 8 given some offense because of my statement, when stake leaders freely predicted a wholesale resignation as a result of my rather blunt: remarks. In the afternoon, I looked to have someone to support my contention. I was sitting by the stake Relief Society president, and I think she probably is here today. She had raised nine children, all of them married now, and all of them in the temple; a very successful mother; and all her life, all the time she was raising her family, she had been a leader in one of the women's organizations. So I asked her to tell us how she had been able to be a leader and yet had been able to raise such a remarkable family. This lovely sister could not have given a more perfect talk from my standpoint than if I had schooled her on what to say. She said: "In the first place, what success I have had in raising my family, I owe to my angel mother. I raised my children as my wonderful mother raised us, and that chain reaction, which she started, has gone through my family, and I hope I have transferred it on to my children." The importance of a mother was pinpointed by someone who said, ""When you teach a boy, you are just teaching another individual, but when you teach a woman or a girl, you are teaching a whole family." The second thing, she said: "I married a wonderful companion. Daddy always felt that I should be active just as well as he should be active, and so whenever we were asked to hold a position, we sat down with the bishop or the PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME stake president to see if we could take the position that was being offered, and yet see that our family would not be neglected. We have worked it out all through our married life, so that our children never have been unattended. One of us has been home with the children." And then, the third thing she said was, "I have an unshakeable testimony in the divine mission of the Lord, Jesus Christ." I submit to you that there can hardly be three things said which would make for more successful motherhood than these three things mentioned by this wonderful stake Relief Society president. Someone said, "A home is a roof over a good woman." Another said, "A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home." You will never know until you have had the experience of walking into a house without a mother and one's companion there. It is like walking into a darkened room without the light turned on. The first intimation of domestic happiness you may _ recognize when members of a family say how they love their home. That is the indication of real domestic happiness. "Where the home is ruled according to the Word of God, angels might be asked to stay, and they would not find themselves out of their element," one thinker wrote: Households there may be, well ordered and abiding in comfort; families there may be whose various members live in harmony and love; but homes in their true sense there cannot be where there is no one whom manly choice has made a wife, and infant lips have learned to honor the name of mother. Another wrote: Six things are requisite to a happy home. Integrity must be the architect; and tidiness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection, lighted up with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day, while over all as a protecting canopy and glory, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God. "The best school and discipline is home; family life is God's own method of training the young," so our newspaper the other morning said. Home is the seminary of all other institutions; it is the cradle of character and Christianity. Eighty per cent of our criminals come from unsympathetic homes. The most essential element in any home is God. Christianity begins at home; we build our characters there, and what we become in after years is largely determined by our training and home environment. I heard a humble man out in one of our country stakes say something of great wisdom. Whether or not it was original with him, I do not know, but his statement was: "What we are hereafter depends on what we are after here." I think that, translated into a_ sermon, this would provide some worthwhile thoughts. To Adam, the Lord said, concerning children: And it is given unto them to know good from evil.... Wherefore, teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only JANUARY 1965 Begetten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a: righteous Judge; who shall come in the meridian of time. Therefore-I give unto: you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your-children... (Moses 6:56-58). Now, that's one of the earliest instructions I could find, where parents and leaders were to teach children. King Benjamin to his people said: And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry; or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and: serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which has been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy te all righteousness. But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teachthem to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14, 15). In the book of Deuteronomy, in the. Old Testament, we. Find this being said. By Moses, as the Lord instructed him: And thou shalt_love the Lord. Thy God with all thine heart; and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou. Shalt teach them diligently: unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up (Deut. 6:5-7). Now, our leaders today have said something. From the discourses of President Woodruff, I have a quotation: I consider that the mother has a greater influence over her posterity than any other person can. Have. And the question has arisen some time "When does this education begin?" Our prophets have said, "When the spirit life from God enters into the 10 tabernacle." The condition of the mother at that time will have its effect upon the fruit of her womb; and from the birth of the child, and all through life, the teachings and the. Example of the mother govern and control in a great measure, that child, and her influence is felt by it through time and eternity. I have long been satisfied that the devil was making great exertions to drive a wedge in between parents and children — trying to inspire and instil into the minds of the sons and daughters of the Saints those corrupting notions that will prevent them from following the footsteps of their fathers and mothers: but this cannot be done! The sons. And daughters of this people, if we do our duty, will be held by the strength and in the name of Israel's God. (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, pp. 269-270). President Grant has made two: very important: comments: There seems: to: be. A power which the mother -possesses in shaping the life of the child that is far superior.... A mother's love seems. To be the most perfect and most sincere, the strongest of any love we know anything about.. I, for one, rejoice in it because of its wonderful example to me. If we as parents will so order: our lives-that our children will know. And: realize in their hearts that we are in very deed Lattenday Saints, that. We actually knowwhat we are talking about; they, by seeking: after the Lord, will get that same testimony (Gospel Standards, pp. 152, 154).. What a tremendous comfort and. Promise that must be! President McKay has these comments to make: God has placed upon parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of. Children. Church schools, Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Associations, Primary organizations are all helps in government, established here to assist PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME in the upbuilding and guidance of the youth, but none of these — great and important factors as they are in the lives of youth — can supplant the permanence and the influence of the parents in the home (Pathways to Happiness, page 118). President Joseph F. Smith said: Another great and important duty devolving upon this people is to teach their children, from their cradle until they become men and women, every principle of the gospel, and endeavor, so far as lies in the power of the parents, to instil into their hearts a love for God, the truth, virtue, honesty, honor and integrity to everything that is good. That is important for all men and women who stand at the head of a family in the household of faith. Teach your children the love of God, teach them to love the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Teach them to love their fellowmen, and especially to love their fellow members in the Church that they be true to their fellowship with the people of God. Teach them to honor the Priesthood, to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church (Gospel Doctrine, pp 292-293). And here is another quotation from President McKay: No matter what they may be without, are your homes pure within? Are morning prayers offered there regularly? Or do the things of this world take you away from your home and make you deprive yourself of morning prayers with the children? Woe to that home where the mother abandons her holy mission or neglects the divine instruction, influence, and example — while she bows, a devotee, at the shrine of social pleasure; or neglects the essential duties in her own household, in her enthusiasm to promote public reform (Gospel Ideals, page 481). Now that is well pointed, and I hope all our mothers can get the message. Then he added: "God has placed upon you parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of children." Finally, this quotation from President Brigham Young: If you mothers will live your religion, then in the love and fear of God teach your children constantly and thoroughly in the way of life and salvation, training them up in the way they should go, when they are old they will not depart from it (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 206). The Home Teaching Program Now this coming Saturday night, President McKay has directed that the theme of the general Priesthood meeting will be a program, announced Churchwide, on teaching of the gospel in the home. In this there will be defined the beginning of the program which will be initiated beginning January 1, 1965, in which the Relief Society organization will play a very vital part. Now, one of the questions that is frequently asked, and upon which there seems to be some confusion, is with reference to the visiting teacher program of the Relief Society, which is thought, in some cases, to conflict with the Home Teaching Program. Now, may I say to you that in all our discussions as a Correlation Committee we have never thought to give direction or instruction that the Home Teaching Program should discontinue the visiting teaching program of the Relief Society. But the visiting teacher program now has an objective that is a little different and beyond an auxiliary to the Home Teaching Program. 11 JANUARY 1965 Now, for example, as I attempted to think this through, the word that you use in connection with your Relief Society work, is that of the '"compassionate service" side of Relief Society. That is contemplated in every visit in the home of the Relief Society visiting teachers. Now, in that visitation there may be such things as homemaking instructions, where you see a loosely knit home and poorly kept by a mother who doesn't understand — this might be the golden opportunity for the Relief Society to inject its instruction in that compassionate way. Watchful attention to the needs of the sick and the infirm is encompassed in the visit of the visiting teacher, and the keeping of Relief Society presidents apprised of temporal, as well as spiritual needs, also. Now, as I thought of that, I remembered something I read a year or so ago. A general from Europe had just returned from an assignment over there, where he had witnessed the terrible devastation of those great cities in Southern and Western Europe. Someone had asked him a question that followed his talk as to what he thought the greatest needs in Europe were. And he gave three words: "They need food, fuel, and faith," and then he added, 'Without the latter, the first two are useless; and without the first two, the third is impossible." Tuart is a true statement. Those of us who work, Brother Romney and I and you Relief Society presidents, close to the Welfare Program, can tell that when a home is shattered because 12 of the needs of food and shelter and clothing and fuel, that the first thing we have to do is to build a sense of security, a sense of material well-being, before we can begin to lift the family to the plane where we can instil in them, faith. That is the beginning, but unless we have the objective of what we do as to the building of faith, the mere giving of material aid fails. Now, we must understand that, if we just try to build faith without first filling their stomachs and seeing that they are properly clothed and properly housed and properly warmed, perhaps we will fail in the building of faith. Relationship of Relief Society to the Home Teaching Program Now, in order to give to the sisters a perspective of this responsibility which is coming to them, I would like first to introduce that by showing the relationship which the Relief Society should have with the Home Teachers. I am talking now of the Priesthood Home Teachers. We have had some confusion, as you can understand, when a new program is announced, there is always some lack of comprehension in the beginning of any new program or plan. We try to explain with the best vocabulary we have, which is sometimes very limited; and then, unfortunately, the people who listen have a worse vocabulary to listen with than we have to talk with; and with that limited equipment we try to get across a few ideas. I have often said to the brethren that the all-important thing is not what we say at a. Stake PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME conference or at a general conference, but the all-important thing is what people think we said. That is the important thing. Well, now, some people have thought we said certain things that we did not say, or at least, we have repented of, if we seemed to have said it; and it is now about some of these things I wish to speak. Now about the Primary Home Partnership. Said that seemed to negate all of that good work of the Primary trying to carry the Primary lessons into the home; and likewise the Sunday School had a similar kind of program. We _ were asked to make some comments about that. The Ward Council Meeting One of the weekly meetings of the executive committee of each Priesthood group in the ward is to be held each month, and is resolved into what we call a ward council meeting, where all the heads of the auxiliaries and all the heads of the Priesthood groups will meet together. The bishop will bring to this group the assignments which need to be made to the auxiliaries. The place of the auxiliary is there determined, primarily by the outcome of the studies or the visits of the Home Teachers, as revealed by oral or written reports, which are sifted by the secretary of the Home Teaching committee, or assistant ward clerk, and the bishopric. Relationship Between Priesthood Home Teachers and Auxiliary Workers on Enlistment There have been some questions asked relative to the Some things were. Relationship between Priesthood Home Teachers and the auxiliary workers, relating to enlistment work necessary for an individual child or adult member. During last month we held a seminar of all Priesthood representatives of the four Priesthood committees — Home Teaching, Missionary, Genealogy, and Welfare. In that meeting, this very question came up, and in the discussion, they seemed to draw an interesting distinction between the enlistment work necessary for a longtime inactive family or one which had never been active, and the infrequent absence of a child who had skipped going to Sunday School or who had skipped going to Primary for a week or more. The enlistment work can be considered as one thing, the visit of a child who is ill or occasionally absent, is another. In one stake I visited I conferred with the Relief Society and Primary board workers, after their all-day sessions with stake leaders, and I found that only fifty per cent of the mothers in that stake were enrolled in Relief Society; and there were 225 children of Primary age who were not participating in Primary. Whose business is this? Is this just the business of the Relief Society and the teachers of the various classes? Is it just the business of the Primary and the teachers of the Primary classes? It is the business of the total Priesthood of the Church to see, so far as it is possible, that every mother is induced to come to Relief Society, and that every child of Primary age is induced to participate in the Primary program. Now, by analogy, that means 13 JANUARY 1965 MIA age, Sunday School, and so on. Illustrations. The bishop should have on his -agenda for this council meeting, when all the auxiliary heads are there with the Priesthood workers and the bishopric, the special items that pertain to specific problems. 'Women are not to be called to serve as Home Teachers, but they may go by specific assignment if the bishop, after consultation with the Home Teachers, feels that in a given case, for a month or two or more, it would be a benefit to a particular family because of a particular situation. Well now, I think it is understandable in a case like that, as Sister Spafford observed when we were talking about this, if there has been given a special assignment to Family A, for a special sister to work with a special case, for that period of specialized work, the visiting teachers might not be asked to visit that home, because they might confuse this specialist's work already going forward. Now, whether or not there will be one or more or many visits will depend upon the results of the discussion of the bishop with his Home Teachers, and then with the specific auxiliary concerned. It may be Relief Society; it may be MIA; it may be Sunday School; it may be Primary. The hope is that we are not too far away, maybe a year away, from having not just a Primary Home Partnership or a Sunday School Home Partnership, but a total Church Home Partnership. It will bring all the lessons for a 14 I merely use these as planned and responsible teaching into the home. In other words, we are giving parents now for this year lessons that they are going to teach their children — actually planned lessons, for parents to teach in the home. And we hope this will become a total partnership program, involving not just the Primary and the Sunday School, but every organization. Now, these are two phases which you must keep in mind when you tackle this subject. Don't just say, "Now, since this Home Teaching program, we are not getting as many new members out as we used to before." Well, if you are not, it is your fault. You sit in on that monthly ward council meeting, and if that ward council meeting is not being held, or you are not invited into it, then somebody ought to be harassed and importuned until that meeting is held; and you ought to be so alert to the needs of your organization that not one member who ought to be in Relief Society is overlooked by the Home Teachers, and that plans are made for an orderly recruitment of all members into Primary, or the Mutual Improvement Association, or the Sunday School, as the case may be. If you can do this, if you will have in mind that what we are planning now is a program that will reach every member of the Church, and when anyone comes complaining that we have fallen off in this or that because of the Home Teaching Program, we ask them, why don't you ask to be allowed to participate more fully in the specific cases where the Home Teachers are not effective, PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME or where the Home Teachers have not fully sensed that they need a specialist's work in order to enlist some members of the family who are not now active? Teaching the Gospel in the Home With that in mind, Sister Spafford told you that there will be given to you now a lesson once a month in: the Relief Society. I have 'before me the first lesson which they have proposed in this 'series, the teaching of which will commence the first of the year. I am going to read you one or two 'paragraphs, which can say this 'better than I do, to give you the perspective: In order to cooperate fully with this program, the Latter-day Saint mother must understand the place of the family in the divine "scheme of things." She must strive to establish the kind of relationship among family members that will be _ favorable 'to an acceptance of this gospelteaching program. She should realize that her attitude will be an important influence for good or a deterrent to the progress of the work, and she, herself, must become more informed as to the principles of the restored gospel. The purpose of these Relief Society lessons is, therefore, to help the mother become an effective instrument with her husband in_ teaching the gospel to the family. How often, in past years, have you heard a Latter-day Saint mother say, "I wish my husband 'could have heard the discussion today. Had he done so, I am'sure he would feel differently about a particular problem we have in our home." It is a realistic observation that with widely divergent points of view, the efforts of one parent often may nullify the efforts of the other parent, sometimes with great detriment to the persons involved and to the problem which needs. To be resolved. The correlation of these -lessons with those being studied -by the Priestheod quorums. Can be of great value, since it will bring to both parents an awareness of their joint responsibility to teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel. In fact, it is hoped that through a mutual understanding of this responsibility, Latterday Saint parents will work unitedly to meet this teaching. ChaHenge, and that they will strive earnestly to bring a fullness of the blessings of the gospel into their -homes. And then they summarize with these important instructions: To assist parents in carry. Ing out the responsibility given them by the Lord, the leaders of the Church through inspiration have developed the home 'program, which is a Priesthood administrative responsibility. The 'Family Home Evening Program will involve every member of the Church, for its fundamental concern is that every Church 'member be more fully instructed m Church doctrine. "Therefore, every family unit, however scomposed, 'should participate in the instruction program." Couples without children, a single person living alone, roommates, as well as families, can all benefit from ~the newly instituted program. The lessons will include material adapted to the particular needs of special types of families, where such adaptation is necessary. An instruction period, similar to that planned for the family night, is to be held. In addition to the gospel lessons, the manual gives suggestions for family activities which should set a general clmmate for the home throuement the month. 'Then they conclude with this: Each year the lessons in the Family Home Evening Program manual will consider fundamental principles of the gospel, and they will deal with four universal concerns of the Latterday Saints. The emphasis will be placed upon application of the truths 15 JANUARY 1965 in these universals. Lessons prepared for Priesthood quorums and Relief Society will likewise emphasize the importance of translating the gospel teachings into action. The relationship of the individual to his family, to others, and to the community will be emphasized. Now can you see that plan in action? Mothers being taught in a monthly lesson in Relief Society, fathers in their weekly Priesthood meeting; a lesson actually planned for the parents in the home in a family manual; and then the Home Teachers once a month, given instructions to check to see that the parents understand how these lessons are to be taught, and any questions or problems ironed out. In other words, we are not going to be like someone said: "You talk about it, but what have you done about it?" Now, these are some definite fundamental steps which you, as the leaders of the women of the Church, must implement. Now this is the thing we want you to carry out. We must do our jobs so well in these lessons that we give to every mother her fundamental instructions necessary for her to know what her place is with her husband in the teaching of the gospel to the children in the home. Now, with these things that I have read you preliminary to this, you begin to get something of what our leaders have urged. I said here, you are not to be Home Teachers, so appointed regularly as such. In one of the stakes, the first month, we took a look at it, and half of the Home Teachers were women, and I think if we had gone another 16 three months, all the Home Teaching would have been done by the Relief Society. We would have had no Home Teachers. You are to stand ready to assist the Home Teachers, in a manner directed by the bishop. And you are to instruct your leaders in that ward council meeting to plead constantly and urge your Priesthood leaders, if you feel that your part of the work is not receiving the specific attention that it deserves and needs to save some particular home situation; and then to give specific aid to mothers who are struggling with insurmountable problems. Problems That Beset Us Today Only yesterday Sister Lee and I ran into two problems that are right here. One of them: a mother called to say, "Our son is attending college, and every day his teacher is indoctrinating him with socialism, and what are we going to do about it?" she asked. And another, a fine, handsome boy just starting to college said, "Every day I attend this particular class in philosophy there have been created doubts in my mind and questionings of the faith and _ teachings of the Church. How can I rise above it?" That is the problem, probably, of every home where they have college sons and daughters. Now what is the answer? The answer is, or the solution is that we fortify our children by giving them truths on which they can build a testimony that will fortify them against these things which are in the world and striking at the faith of our children. PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME In a recent book on science and religion the author states his belief that there is abroad in the world today a great revival in religion, and that this revival is a challenge to scientists and religious leaders to cooperate in working for the hopes and dreams of mankind. A Challenge to the Church The greatest challenge the Church has today is to proclaim the faith of their fathers in the language of the children of today. And that, I submit to you, is, in one sentence, the challenge that we face in this program of teaching the gospel in the home. I came across an address that President Clark delivered to the conference of the Relief Society sometime ago, in which he said: Thus the Latter-day Saint family, in a Latter-day Saint home, has three great functions to perform. First, — it must bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came, — a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities. Second, — it must so carry out its duties, rights, and functions as to enable it, in turn, to found a celestial home that shall in some eternity hereafter be equal in power, opportunity, and dignity with the celestial home from which we came and to which we shall return. Third, — it must so live its life as to provide for the spirits yet waiting to come to this earth for their fleshly tabernacles, both bodies and minds that shall be healthy, for the spirits coming through them are the choice spirits, which have earned the right by their lives in their first estate, to come for their second estate, to the righteous homes — to the families of greatest worth, promise, and opportunity; and this family must provide for this spirit which it invites to come to its hearthstone, an environment that shall meet the strictest requirements of righteousness (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 808). Now those are powerful observations — three great family functions. Well, perhaps I have said enough and maybe a summary of that is to say something that is a bit delicate and a bit personal, but all of us who go as General Authorities throughout the Church or sit in our offices, are confronted almost constantly with a question. Here is a lovely mother who is struggling against the odds of a faithless husband, or one who will not be active in the Church and will not do anything, and the question of the mother is should she withdraw from that husband and seek a separation with the thought that if they cannot work out a happy home life here, then why try to think of getting into the temple to be sealed for eternity? Now we have had that problem constantly before us. Let me read you something which President Brigham Young said that I think strikes at this thing and gives to you, as leaders, something on which you ought to dwell constantly whenever distraught mothers come to you with any such thoughts as to pull away from the husband because he is not presently giving the attention to the Church that he ought. President Young said: I know you good women get annoyed and provoked and out of patience many times with your husbands; and at times, justly so. They are not always as considerate of you WF JANUARY 1965 as they ought to be; but if they provide for you, they are kind to you, and otherwise treat you right, stay with them. I think it has been taught by some that as we lay our bodies down, they will so rise again in the resurrection with all the impediments and imperfections that they had here; and that if a wife does not love her husband in this state she cannot love him in the next. This is not so. Those who attain to the blessings of the first or celestial resurrection will be pure and holy, and perfect in body. Every man and woman who reaches to this unspeakable attainment will be as beautiful as the angels that surround the throne of God. If you can, by faithfulness in this life, obtain the right to come up in the morning of the resurrection, you need entertain no fears that the wife will be dissatisfied with her husband or the husband with the wife; for those of the first resurrection will be free from sin and from the consequences and power of sin. This body is "sown in corruption, it is raised. In incorruption; it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body." "And as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly" (Journal of Discourses 10, page 24). Now, let me close with an illustration. Sister Lee and I were back at the time of the Singing Mothers on the East Coast, when they put on that remarkable presentation, as President Tanner told you yesterday, that resulted in a tremendous publicity all over the country. They left hundreds and hundreds of children, with husbands, we hope, to be attended somewhere and cared for while the mothers were gone. There came up at the close of that meeting a lovely singer, who sang one of the solo parts. She had been a convert of only a year or two before, and she had been singing with the Metropolitan Opera Company. But she said she recalled that I had been back to the stake conference where she lived, and we had talked about temple marriage while there, and her husband was a professor in a university back there. Despite all her efforts to try to get him interested he just pulled away, wanted to have nothing to do with it. Furthermore he was urging her to go his way into activities contrary to the standards of the Church. Well, I suppose I had laid a pretty heavy hand on the small percentage of temple marriages, and on those who were not working up towards a sealing in the temple. This sister came up as the conference closed, and asked me, "What am I going to do about it?" She told me just a bit about her home situation, and she reminded me. It shocked me when I heard her say it. (I can think how it shocked her when I said it.) She said, "You said, in answer to my question 'Well, I don't understand that the Lord ever expected a woman to follow her husband to hell!'" And so, stiffened by that rather stern and, perhaps a bit crude, perhaps inspired, comment, she thought, "This is ever the time to strike," so she went home to her husband. (He had been in that session, by the way.) She didn't tell us the whole story of what may have happened and what he said back to her. She left that to our imagination, but then, as the tears came rolling down her cheeks, she said, 'Today is our PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME fifteenth wedding anniversary, and my husband is being baptized tonight a member of the Church." And he was back there to help, as one of those appointed to take care of all the physical arrangements for the Singing Mothers as they arranged themselves for that great concert. It is that kind of salvation which maybe some faithful wife will have to help her husband one day to achieve. Remember what the apostle Paul said, '"'The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the believing wife." Now, I am not talking of a husband who is unfaithful to the point of endangering his wife's health, immoral, and probably has almost deprived himself of the right of life itself, but I am talking merely of one who presently seems to show no interest, or has his mind presently upon worldly things. If we will do our part as mothers, wives, with patience and prayer, and with the power of the Priesthood now concentrated, as we hope it will be, we may hope in the years that lie ahead to see a tremendous resurrection of interest, unity,' faith, and the strengthening of the Latter-day Saint homes of this people. Now, dear, sisters, you must give leadership to this. It will not go unless the mothers take the initiative in many homes. Put father in his place and urge him to take that place, and help him to be the teacher and leader that the Lord expects fathers to be, as holders of the Priesthood. So I leave you my blessing this afternoon, again expressing my great delight at what I heard of the general session. How proud I was to hear your President, Sister Spafford, and these wonderful counselors. I think the word "great" is not an exaggeration — to say these are great women who are leading you, loyal, devoted, untiring, faithful. Sister Spafford has attained a world-wide stature. When she goes to foreign lands, she is well known to women's groups everywhere. She has addressed them on many occasions. She will leave this conference shortly to go to one similar conference back East. She has earned her place because she has maintained her standards and she has taught the gospel of Jesus Christ. I am grateful to be here in the presence of Brother Romney. I think his talk to you yesterday was one of the finest expressions on one of the great needs of developing an awareness of the Spirit and how we must strive to get that Spirit and keep it. I think that is something that ought to be printed and reprinted and read and re-read, as Brother Romney has given it to you yesterday. May I say, parenthetically, that the loyalty that brought him from a long meeting to sit through this hour, that may not have been, shall I say, too engaging, indicates the kind of loyalty and strength that I have always felt in Elder Marion G. Romney, than whom I have never known a more loyal, a more faithful, and a more dear companion in the earnest work that belongs to the kingdom of God. I commend what has been said and done and commend you to the further responsibilities that 19 JANUARY 1965 this new program will place squarely upon you as _ leaders. You must teach it now to those who work under your direction, and don't just let this go for your instruction; but for you to see that those who work under you are given instructions. I bear you my testimony that this has come, as all such instructions do come, by the inspiration, revelations of the Lord to this people in this day — to concentrate the forces of the kingdom to combat the evils and the insurmountable problems that are coming upon homes, which can _ only be stemmed as we teach our children the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so I bear humble testimony and leave you my blessing in the name of Jesus Christ. Pine Knots and Irritations Mabel Jones Gabbott The door was made of the forest pine, rough hewn And varnished lightly against the rain and snow; The knots, like jewels in the sun's rich glow, Sang of its reaching like a glad tree tune. 20 | thought of oysters on the inlet shore, Producing pearls from irritations, dust Specks in a foreign field, small hurts that must In healing make jewels in its very core. Look how a cloud can make a golden frieze Of the sun's rays as against a distant blue It splinters the ending day of brilliant life! "A growing, a becoming..."' always these Are jewels. Like the mute sea shells, |, too, Have underestimated change and strife. Mothering in Nazareth Eva Willes Wangsgaard The years between his birth and his twelfth year, Before divinity shone through the boy, The growing time when he was close and dear, Her little Son to love with mortal joy; When he was taught to do the simple chore, To hold the chisel, use the saw and plane, To savor love behind a humble door — These were the years that would outlive the pain. Life's early springtime, pleasure and reward, Each hour tender as a greening leaf. There would come a season later for the sword, The emptiness, the glory, and the grief. The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1964 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1964. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Lenora Hansen, Snowflake, Arizona, for her poem "Wind Valley." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem 'Progeny.' The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Lila Bennet Spencer, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, for her poem "Love's Gifts." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. January was her birth month. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission award winners of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. All of the award winners in the 1964 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest are firsttime winners, and Mrs. Hansen and Mrs. Spencer represent localities not previously listed as home cities of award-winning poets. The General Board is pleased to note that the poem contest is thus receiving a wider interest and a wider geographical representation. Two hundred eighty poems were entered in the 1964 poem contest, thirtyone States of the United States, and six other countries being represented. The largest number of entries came from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Washington, lowa, Wyoming, Michigan, and Texas, in that order. Scotland, England, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and Germany were the countries outside Continental United States which were listed as the homelands of the authors. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prizewinning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. FIRST PRIZE POEM Lenora Hansen The wind blew in my valley, The always, everlasting wind. -Rabbits scooted through its sand drive For the shelter of gray cedar bark. A coyote sent his lonely cry upon its crest. A hawk sailed its up current And swooped in its down draft. Red sand was hurled against raw earth; And cedars clawed beneath the rock For gust lashed rain. Wind's minor cadence sang my lullaby. Wind waited for the child, outside the schoolroom door, And swept him, racing, down the street. Youth turned his face and strode into wind's blast. Wind whispered in the place where lovers meet. Wind howled around the cabin of the man and wife And the young babe. It flung its grit into your teeth, And blasted new-sown crops And scoured the sky And winnowed souls, And knifed through sham and pomp, And bade man send his roots down deep — Or die! A still small voice spoke underneath the whirl; The night wind bore a soul back to its God And keened the funeral hymn. 1 am sick for red sand Blown against raw earth. | must turn home. SECOND PRIZE POEM Pearle M. Olsen They come to us naked and dependent, Having nothing but instinct To aid their grasp at existence. And we warm-clothe them And suckle their searching lips. We cuddle and cherish them, And the miracle of nature Is made manifest before our eyes, As mystified, we witness growth. And in our strength we take the gentile clay Into our fumbling hands, Knowing the intelligence within Makes of the substance something special, Even something precious and infinite. And with lowered heads, and eyes, and hearts We seek for high direction In the molding of the buoyant clay, And in the fashioning of it. We sometimes falter as we are led To work the mold, and, groping For a design, we sometimes stumble Because of our limited sight. Then, with renewed patience, We smooth the rough, polish the smooth, So character is shaped In the souls of models of comeliness. And we sing in our happiness! Then quietly, as butterflies emerging From their warm chrysalis, One, then too soon, another Of the models of beauty, stretches, Flutters, and firmly floats on wings, As do all butterflies. And we awake one day to wonder About the transitory nature of time And the intangible past years Of unfolding, of doing, earning, And spending. And now in this year Of slower feet and tired hands, We pause longer to reflect, with longing In our hearts, about the tender clay And the symbolic flight of butterflies. Then we are prompted to tune our ears to the clamor of empty rooms Swelling with hoarded echoes! 24 Love's Gifts Lila Bennett Spencer When spring came the children danced with magic feet Across the bald, uneven fields, To find the flowers' hiding places. Bright buffalo beans in gay profusion spilling from their arms, They ran to greet their mother. With worship at her fingertips, she took their proffered blooms, And ail the glory that was spring Was captured in their rooms. In June they found the wild rose blooming — A tiny splash of color on the plains, And clusters shy beside the road. Not minding thorns, their eager fingers plucked, And made a wreath to give her. She smelled the sweetness; put them in her hair, And al! The loveliness of earth Seemed centered there. They told her when the rainbow came, After a fickie spat of rain, One parched and heavy summer day. She stopped her work, and raised her eyes to drink the beauty in, And on her cheeks the soft tears lay. ''Sheer gossamer,'' they heard her raptly cry. 'How like a bolt of fairy silk Suspended in the sky!"' When autumn came, and leaves all orange and brown, Hung listlessly upon the trees, They heard the wild geese call. She stood there, with her arms around them all, as overhead They watched the ordered flight. Her lips were silent, but her trembling arms 'said more, Shared freedom's wondrous pull, and urged Each sluggish soul to soar. Through all the months, Through all the years, They brought her gifts. She took them in her ample hold. Sometimes in tears, Sometimes in smiles, And gave them back An hundredfold. - Sn Poe, lives jn Snowflake, Arizona. She has Written Many dramatizations for use in her local ward and Stake, ang has soiq One Story "Journal's End," Which has not yet been Published. The Poem "Wind Valley"' Was written in the Spring of 1964, Mrs. Hansen Spent last summer at the Arizona State College Studying Creative ah.. Ye rs, the Children and a young son at home: Mrs. Gale Barney, Safford, Arizona: Q. Marion Hansen Jr., San Jose, California: and Joseph, eight years oid. There are ten "T Nave always been a reader ang have Scribbled for fun during the past twenty-five years. Two years ago | began to take my writing Seriously, and last School.! Was North Sanpete Stake Relief Society President for six years, and in 1957 received an honorary Golden Gleaner award, Recently! Have concluded almost Six and a half years as a Member of the Relief Society Genera} Board," Lila Bennett Spencer, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada, is Presented for the first time 4S an award winner in the Efiza R. Snow Poem Contest. "I write," she OYs, all Now in School.! Have worked in Most Church aUXiliaries, and at Present teach S€nealogy, and am education Counselor in the branch Relief Society Presidency. I 25 The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1964 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1964. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Venda Brown Castleberry, Provo, Utah, for her story ''Heart Room.'' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story ''Among Strangers.'' The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Norma A. Wrathall, Sunnyvale, California, for her story ''A Doll for Emarita.''. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1965. Fifty-five stories were entered in the contest for 1964, including submissions from Canada, Australia, England, and Wales. Mrs. Castleberry is a firsttime winner in the contest; Mrs. Littke is represented for the second time; and Mrs. Wrathall is a fourth-time winner. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. This year's submissions were of an excellent quality. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 26 Venda Brown Castleberry FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest 1 was bringing grandpa home to live with us, and I hadn't even talked it over with Jim. Grandpa was asleep on the back seat now, as the tires whispered on the highway, unraveling it around gently rising hills and spinning it out in a gray-black ribbon up the valley behind. Asleep. Like a child, I thought, trusting the dangers of the road to another's hands. At the beginning we trust so much, we need so much. Calves, lambs, babies — all knowing that if they call for help there is something — an inborn something — in another that will answer their need. But at the end — why is there no answer? "Come on,' I. Said aloud, switching on the radio, "what is there about driving on a long road that brings out the philosopher in me? As Jim would say, 'My feet just don't fit on a limb.' " I wished that a_ telephone booth — a real one — would pop up in one of the heat mirages that made shimmering lakes in the road ahead. I needed to hear Jim's voice. After fifteen years of marriage, the tone of a voice tells a lot. It would tell me how Jim felt about Grandpa coming to us. I had tried to call, but, of course, Jim, children, everyone had been in the hay field. A telegram that the operator would call to the ranch had been the best I could do. "Listen, Hon," Jim said, after he had read Aunt Liz's letter, "why don't you get in the car and drive on down? She's right, you know, some of us should be there, and your Mom being in the hospital and all. I wish I could be with you!" But the hay was down, and we all scanned the sky each morn- 27 ing, hoping we could get the winter's supply of feed up before rain turned it to a musty, black waste. And Jim was the one who led the haying crew, early to late. My hands were sweaty and achy; I had gripped the steering wheel hard, thinking of the family meeting called to decide "what to do about Grandpa." * Ok Ok Ok Try 'were all waiting when I got there, in the living room of the old house, with Grandpa on the other side of the sliding doors, waiting like the accused while the jury is out deliberating. "He simply cannot stay alone any longer," Aunt Liz had said, 'it's a disgrace to the family, that's what it is! The things he does — people are starting to say he's — he's — well, funny. He 28 won't use the new range we got him — insists on building a fire in that old wood stove out in the cabin to roast those awful old potatoes, which he ~ certainly shouldn't eat at his age, half done and all. And he forgets — and with the fire and all...." My cousin Claire broke in. "Sister Moss says she offered to do up his shirts and take his suit to the cleaners, but he told her his wife always sees to it that the family's clothes are ready for Sunday. That old suit — we tried to get him to buy a new one, but he wouldn't. And _ those awful old wide silk ties — spots of food spilled all over...." Claire moved closer to Dick, there on the old leather lounge, and put her hand on his knee. "We took Dick's grandma to Resthaven the other day. It's as Dick says, they like to be with other old people. When there are little ones around you can't...." Aunt Lucy couldn't wait to get in her two cents' worth. 'You remember when we took him over Easter? Well, it didn't work out ee ail." Uncle Burt nodded his head up and down to reinforce his wife's words. As if he's about to shout Hallelujah and amen, I had thought. Aunt Lucy went on, "When there're young people dating and all — so embarrassing. One night Ellie came home with her beau, and they were sitting out in the car and Father went out — in his nightgown, mind you — and told Ellie to come in the house. Burt and I weren't even home — and a mercy, probably, too, or I'm afraid there'd have been words! He acts as if he can't hear, but if you notice, he can hear what he wants to — like Ellie's beau's car that night. I tell you, there's no house big enough for three generations!"' My Uncle Charles took his cue here. He built houses for a living. "That's just it," he said, 'with these planned homes the way they are, there's no place to put extra people. They're built for a certain sized family, and that's it. Why, a family just about has to move when there's a new baby! Sure don't know where we'd put Papa — and I know yov're all in the same boat." While he was talking I had looked through the window at the log cabin just outside the yard fence. Just HEART ROOM "It's so small!" I had said to Grandpa once, after I had first been away to college, "how did you ever raise eight children in there?" Grandpa had stooped to pull up a pigweed near the old wooden step, straightened to look over the hand-niched logs, — graybleached by weather and time. I watched his face and knew this was going to be a serious answer. "Yes, it does seem little, don't it though, out here by the big one. But it never did seem little or big or any size to Diana and me, those years. It was our home, and it just naturally stretched to cover us all — first Diana and me, and then her mother was widowed and she came to us. "The babies came along — I don't remember ever wondering if there was room — our. Home just took them in, and they had their share, just like your heart takes them all in — without getting one whit bigger in actual size." Grandpa had twisted a cobweb that hung from the doorway around his finger. "T can just see Diana spreading out quilts on the floor to make an extra bed, the company all the time saying that it was too much trouble, and they really ought to go on. She'd give the quilt a flip to straighten it out and say, 'Don't say another thing about it now! Where _ there's heart room, there's always house room!' " * kk k * I turned for a quick look in the back seat now. Such a slight figure, really, not nearly covering the seat. He had given me so much. What had I been doing 29 JANUARY 1965 these years that I hadn't seen him change from the Grandpa of my needful years, to this Grandpa who had run out of giving, and who had today been judged for his crime? "Oh, Jim, I couldn't listen any more," I whispered aloud, "and now you and the kids are involved, and it wasn't right not to talk it over with you, but, Jim, what if it had been you, with a roomful of people talking as if you were some old thing — like — like a furnace or something that they had to do something about? They don't remember, Jim, they just don't want to remember!" * * KOK There had been more uncomfortable excuses. There had been more reinforcing looks between spouses. Suddenly my voice was speaking, and I wondered who had turned it on. "If you all don't care, I'd like to take Grandpa home with me. The last thing Jim said to me was 'bring him home with you if he'll come.' " They were relieved. They tried to object a little, to warn me. But they were relieved. "You don't know what you're getting into," Claire had said. "He's cross with children now. He just wants to sit. I don't know how — food all over when he eats — they get so slovenly — you won't dare have anyone ime..." Uncle Charles said, "Maybe we could build him a little place on the back of your house, so's he'd be kind of away from the family." Aunt Lucy was the speakingout one. She said, "I tell you, he doesn't care where he is — why should he when he can't hear 30 thunder — or at least acts like he can't — lives in the past, and when he does join in talking that's all he'll talk about. I still think a good rest home...." I hadn't felt angry. I knew they were all truthful in what they said. But, I had felt sick, sort of, the way you do when a child is abused — as if in not protecting the helpless, the family — and the whole world — were somehow losing their dignity. * ke * *K THE sun sank behind the hills to the right, its reflected light turning them into purple-black, cardboard shapes, with a black fringe of pines outlining their curves against the mauve sky I turned the headlights on. It was as if their beam pulled the car along through darkness. There were just Grandpa and I. The hum of the motor and the whisper of the tires powered a_ time-machine that hurtled us backward, and we were once again a little girl and her Grandpa — in the needing and the giving years.... Grandpa had always made me feel as if I were his favorite in all the world. Cherished and loved. In a world where grownups were often unpredictable, he was always the same, my security and my refuge. Mother might be cross, father punish unjustly, brother might run away and hide from me, but Grandpa was there to make me feel loved and accepted again. We had a little game. When I would cry, he would say, '""Come here and let me count your ribs." We both knew that I was too ticklish to let him count past the third one! By that time I was giggling and squirming — my reason for crying forgotten. The healing was complete when I was on his lap, my ear over the ticking watch in his overalls pocket. I loved the way Grandpa looked. His hair was auburn, with a suggestion of gray, thick and curly. His eyes were a lively brown under bushy red eyebrows. His mustache drooped down, cut short so that you could see the crinkles at the corners of his mouth. I could always tell if Grandpa was going to speak seriously or jokingly, just by watching those crinkles. He was so clean! It was an ever-living wonder to me that he washed his hair and mustache every time he washed his face! Such splashing and blowing noises he would make as he bent over the low washbench in a corner of the kitchen. First a good lather, then a rinse with many dippersful of cold water from the pail nearby. The comb was in the oilcloth wall pocket above the washbench, under the mirror. Grandpa would flex his knees a bit as he scrunched to look into the mirror. He would part his mustache, comb it carefully, and then comb his hair until it lay in crisp waves. Sometimes Grandpa and I would get to stay home alone all day — just the two of us. We would have baked potatoes for lunch, crispy on the outside, with golden butter melting into their fluffy insides — and plenty of salt and pepper. Grandpa would brew "peppermint tea" for us, and add lots of sugar and milk. Sipping this from a china cup with a grownup saucer under it was living! The first time my brother and HEART ROOM I were to be left alone for the evening, I felt utterly deserted. When I heard the crunch of the buggy wheels outside, and knew everybody — even Grandpa — was gone, I wailed like a Banshee. "Don't cry, Sis," my brother said, to comfort me, ''Grandpa's in the other room." Well, if Grandpa was there, the world was right-side-up again. I went to sleep. It was many years later that we learned that Grandpa was in the other room. The sight of my woebegone face was too much for him; he stayed to listen, to see how I got along! The gifts Grandpa gave me were right from one heart to another. There were always hard, round peppermint candies in his inside coat pocket when he came. One night he opened his coat as if to invite me to have some candy, and there I touched a coalblack puppy, his eyes shining from his dark, warm hiding place. Such a surge of love and protectiveness I felt, as I snuggled his cold, wet little nose down to my neck! Grandpa was never too busy to go for a walk with me. I would put my hand in his and away we'd go, skirting the barnyard, crossing two canals on wobbly plank bridges, running the last little way to the orchard fence. This was adventure to a fouryear-old! Sometimes Grandpa would hand his hat to me, and up a tree he'd go, and down again, with birds' eggs to show me. If there was a robin's egg, he would hold it up to my face and tell me it was just the color of my eyes. I learned from Grandpa how sad Mrs. Bird would be if she came home and 31 JANUARY 1965 found even one egg missing. We must put them all back, and not handle them very much. If there were babies in the nest, we would sit down under the tree and be very quiet, in hopes that Mrs. Bird would heed her babies' discordant '"'peep-peeps" and come to feed them. When she did, we would watch them stretch their bare, wrinkled necks up above the edge of the nest, their mouths wide open to take the squirming worms Mrs. Bird dropped in. One day we watched the devotion of a mother bird — her patience — as she taught her newly feathered fledglings to fly. One day we saw Trixie the cat kill a bird. Grandpa talked to me about it, gently. Trixie was not cruel; she was doing what Heavenly Father expected her to do. He had given her rules to obey, too, but what was wrong for us was not always wrong for animals. THERE must have been times when I tried his patience, but I had no memory of a cross word from my Grandpa. There must have been times when he was tired — when his own affairs weighed heavily upon him, but I found him always ready with the comfort, the support, the protection I needed. By the gift of his utter love and absolute devotion Grandpa had given me an unforgettable memory of warm security. His was the kind of love that every child should have from someone, sometime. A sudden wrench of the steering wheel startled me. I had turned off the highway into the loose gravel of our ranch road. Under the gateway with the 32 tangle of deer antlers across the top, and our brand burned at crazy angles all over the bleached gray poles; off the gravel and onto the dusty road that led to the yard fence. The lights were on all over the house. The living room curtains moved. The yard light went on, and the porch light. I prayed a quick prayer as I stopped the car, "Oh, Jim, it's for the little girl with her hand in her Grandpa's — but for you and me, too — when we're old and funny." I was out and around the car. Jim was through the little gate. So big, so alive, so shiny clean, with comb marks in his damp hair! But I had to feel him, hear him, to know if it was all right. We kissed, hard, and then looked at each other for a long moment, there by the car, with Grandpa inside. "T tried to call...." I said. Jim said, "I know. Elsie told me when she phoned out the message. You didn't need to, you know...." My face started to crumple up. I felt it start in my knees and spread all over me. When I felt my face breaking up, I put my hands over it, pushing hard. Jim took my hands down, and I could feel his hands over my ears — holding the hair out and away from my head, while he kissed my forehead, down to my nose, and then my salty lips. "Baby, it's all right. It's all right. After you left I kicked myself for not telling you to bring him home with you. I figured vou'd have a rough time — I should have gone...." I was feeling for a handkerchief. Jim handed me a clean folded one from his back pocket. "There will be times when we..." I said, but Jim had turned to open the back car door. "Grandpa!" he was saying, "I HEART ROOM me help you. It's been a long trip for an old-timer like you. You must be tired plumb out." There was no reproach in his voice — for either Grandpa or thought you'd never get here. Let me. Venda Brown Castieberry moved from Cave Junction, Oregon, to Provo, Utah, three years ago, to enroll as a Freshman at Brigham Young University, after being out of high school for thirty-one years. ''Next May | shall receive a Bachelor of Arts Degree, and be certified to teach high school English. The delayed university experience has been most challenging and rewarding! "| have a son, Lloyd V. And a daughter, Mrs. Herbert (Charline) Mote, who have given me a total of ten grandchildren. "Naturally gravitating to the creative writing group on the campus, | have had stories published in the Universe and in the Wye Magazine, of which | was short story editor last year. Last April | placed third in the Vera Hinckley Mayhew Short Story Contest. "When I was a child, | moved with my family and eight other families from Idaho to Montana to establish the first colony of Latter-day Saints in that area. Currently, | am writing a book about these pioneers of the 1920's." ¢ Rosalie Evelyn Fjeldsted Her name is Rosalie, A little girl with dreams to share, With sky blue mirrored in her eyes, And sunlight tangled in her hair. Her sandal footsteps challenge silence, A flash of color like the flower Named — and now her given name, She lives in time's unfolding hour. Little girl, with all your dreams, Dance along where life may tead, But let us look into your world, The world for you alone decreed. Yet for a moment may we see, The little girl we once could be. 33 EDITORIAL The Morning of the New Year THE New Year is the beginning of all the bright mornings to come over a succession of many days of precious time. The New Year is a sunrise of promise, a time for considering our present place in the lifetime journey, and the pathway we will choose for the purpose of the years. This sunrise of the new day and the New Year comes to each of us — to those who have cause for rejoicing, and to all who must search their hearts for hope and courage; the sunrise comes to those who walk in strength, and to those who must, at times, lean on others. The morning of the New Year comes with special sounds and special silence to the mother in the home where children begin their early adventures — even before the time of morning prayer. Then, when the silence comes to the circle of faith, there is the feeling of unity in that pattern and in that family, which, though it will be changed, will never be lost. The father's voice is a blessing to his family, and it will be long remembered. The mother's bowed head and the quietness of the children will be a sheltering peace over many years. It seems a rich dwelling place to many women when they consider the blessed walls of home, the doors and the windows — the domain of shaping and sharing — of bending and straightening — the homeplace — so large and so wide that there is neither earthly nor heavenly limitation to its influence. Each task, whether simple or com- plex, difficult or smooth — each triumph and each sorrow are part of the day that follows the morning and looks always toward another year and another morning. The New Year and the new morning are for every young mother and every older mother, and for every woman, for every child to contemplate, as may be in their power, of the ways of repentance and res titution. Forgiveness or pardon is appropriate for the new morning and the New Year — and for all of time. Where once was divergence and estrangement, reconciliation and rejoicing may come, and with them, the uplifting feeling of a new opportunity and a new accomplishment. Even for those who are physically handicapped, and those who must live within the limitations of illness or age, there can be experiences that reflect the sunlight of morning. A woman, who for a time was homebound and then bedridden, marked her mornings and her days with a new interest and a new dimension. She asked her Relief Society president for the names of other women who were similarly handicapped, and there arose among them a companionship of greetings and encouragement — the exchanging of scriptural thoughts or a few brief lines of poetry. And the small world of each one became wider, for it encompassed the worlds of others. For all who have saluted the morning and the New Year with the desire and the purpose of polishing every jewel of time with spiritual strength, there will come that glow of sunrise which is part of the Lord's promise to all who have been given life upon the earth. Euinin —V. P. C. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen~ Wealtha S. Mendenhall Zola J.. McGhie Leone G. Layton Elsa T. Peterson Oa J. Cannon Bianche B. Stoddard Fanny S. Kienitz Lila B. Walch Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes: Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtie R. Olson Alice C. Smith 35 Bound Volumes of 1964 Magazines Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1964 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84101 (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1964 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1964 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. THE 1965 George P. Voss Vice President for Public Relations MARCH OF DIMES The National Foundation The 1965 March of Dimes campaign which opens January 2 is dedicated to the fight against birth defects. Each year more than 250,000 of our children are born with serious birth defects. In numbers alone, the problem of birth defects is much greater than polio ever was. More complex, too, since birth defects have many causes and take many forms. Even so, research can lead us toward prevention of many of these defects. Highest quality medical care can often help children already born, crippled in mind and body. The success of the work of The National Foundation March of Dimes has always depended on a partnership between the public and scientists. Scientists in many laboratories and hospitals are seeking the diverse and elusive causes of birth defects. What's more, the public is growing more concerned about this problem. One in every ten American families experiences the suffering caused by the birth of a seriously defective child. So many of these babies die. So many are disfigured or crippled for life. So many are clouded in mind. This is a tragedy. It must be stopped. You can help by giving\ to the March of Dimes to support research and treatment. FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS — JOIN THE MARCH OF DIMES 36 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President of the American Mothers Committee, is sponsoring the organization of Young Mothers Councils in many cities of the United States. In Salt Lake City, Utah, in October, Mrs. Lewis declared: ''Today's mother cannot cope with her young children's discipline problems because she herself likely has had little or. No discipline shown her. Parental delinquency is at the root of this trouble. Youths need spiritual training, concepts of conformity to law — within and without the family.'' While in Salt Lake City, Mrs. Lewis called on Relief Society General President Belle S. Spafford, a close friend, and was taken on a tour of the Relief Society building. Mrs. Carma Noble, Hurricane, Utah, mother of seven children, is the leader of a remarkable beautification effort which has attracted national attention to Hurricane and has given that city of 1400 population several outstanding State awards. Mrs. Noble, in cooperation with the City Beautification Club which she organized, has supervised the planting of 450 trees, the painting of fifty houses and commercial buildings, the tearing down of 88 barns, corrals, sheds, and chicken coops, the hauling away of several dozen old car bodies, the placing of litter cans on streets, and the paving of forty blocks of streets. All but two families in Hurricane cooperated on these projects. Mrs. Jean Scott, mother of four, from Lincoln, England, administrative nead of all social work done by the Women's Voluntary Service in Lincoln, while touring the United States and visiting many welfare programs, was a guest of the General Board of Relief Society in October. She met with the First Presidency of the Church, visited Welfare Square and many production and distribution centers under Church management. Mrs. Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin, a teacher at Oxford University, England, won the 1964 Nobel Prize in chemistry. She is the first woman to receive this coveted award since Madame Marie Curie in 1911. Her contribution to science is an X-ray technique for photographing such mysteries as the molecular structure of chemicals. Cathy Ferguson, a sixteen-year-old high school girl from Burbank, California, won one of the United States' thirty-six gold medals in the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, in late October. Hers was for swimming in the 100-meter backstroke event, setting a world's record of one minute, seven and nine-tenths seconds. The only other American girl to win a gold medal was Lesley Bush, of Princeton, New Jersey, for her high dive. Three Russian women won gold medals and Vera Caslavaska of Czechoslovakia won three gold medals in the women's gymnastic events. 37 Wait up for me, Jenny Sara O. Moss WJENNY put a change of underwear, a flannel shirt and two pairs of socks in the brown duffle bag. "I'll put this big sweater here, too, Doug. It's cold in Colorado," said Jenny. Douglas Pearson got up from the breakfast table. "It's not cold, Jenny," he teased confidently. "It's just fresh, but if it makes you feel better I'll throw this on the seat."" He picked up the sweater and duffle bag, then hesitated a moment as he looked at his wife. He drew her close and held her, almost hiding her slender frame with his strong arms, the duffle bag and sweater dangling at her back. "Tt'll be Christmas Eve when I come back, Jen, it's sure sneaked up on us this year," said Douglas. "T can't believe it's so close either, Doug." Jenny felt the rough wool of her husband's coat against her face. "Oh, but I'm glad Mr. Smith is going to have a real Christmas this year. You know, I just can't enjoy the holidays unless my neighbors are happy. You should see all the deliveries that have been coming to the house. Toys, food, and gifts, everything that suggests Christmas." "Kids and all for the holidays," smiled Douglas. 'Vernal is not so far but what Julie Anne could 38 make the effort to get down here oftener than she does." "Yes," agreed Jenny, "it's five years since Mrs. Smith died, and we have had Mr. Smith for Christmas every year but one. Oh, I don't mind, Doug — not a bit, but he is so thrilled that Julie Anne and her family are coming. I hope she won't disappoint her father this year." Douglas released Jenny and opened the door. The whirr of a big motor could be heard. Big Bertha had been warming up for a journey. Douglas kissed Jenny hurriedly, then rushed to the big van in the driveway and entered the cab. 'As soon as I drop this load of iron pipe at Steamboat Springs, I'll pick up a load of mattresses and start back. Tell Sharen goodbye for me, and tell her to help you." He smiled and waved, then stuck his head out the window. "Wait up for me, Jenny." Then Doug was gone. Jenny felt the loneliness throughout the house, and started her routine work and waited for Sharen to come downstairs. She felt so secure, so safe when Doug was home. The work never seemed to pile up like this. There was so much to do and Christmas was less than a week away. Finally Sharen came leisurely down the stairs. '""Good morning, Mom," she said. "Did Dad get an early start?" "Tt was past seven when he left," said the older woman. "I hated to see him leave so: close to Christmas. It's up to you to trim the tree, dear. And then there's Amy! We'll have to get her Christmas ready, too. How are we going to get everything done?" Jenny looked at her daughter, as she ate her breakfast. Cool, lovely, and tailored looking in her girlish school clothes, Sharen ate toast and jelly and sipped her milk with apparent enjoyment. "Don't worry about everyone, Mother," said Sharon. ''Christmas has a way of coming right to your door on Christmas Eve. I'll help Amy." Jenny felt relief, but with neighbors on each side of her, who needed Christmas brought to * them, it did worry Jenny. JeENNyY had gone over to Amy's house soon after Sharen left for school. She found Amy struggling with a screaming infant who wanted its bottle in a hurry. Amy was white and sick looking as she tried to make the formula. "Now you: get back on the bed," said Jenny. "You can't do these things yet. I should have come over earlier." Jenny took over, and with all the needs to be met, she was busy in the small household until afternoon. "T'll be back over later," said Jenny as Amy lay resting on the couch. "I think you look better than I've seen you for weeks." "TI couldn't help but get better with a neighbor like you, and the WAIT UP FOR ME, JENNY way you're taking care of me," said Amy. Jenny went home and met Mr. Smith coming along the driveway. He had come to borrow a wrench with which to fix a water tap. "'m almost ready for the folks," he said, a broad smile shining on his weathered face. "I have a big turkey in the icebox, six pies, and a fruit cake. I've put just about everything I could think of in the freezer, too. I hope I haven't forgotten anything." "Cranberries?" asked Jenny. Mr. Smith snapped his fingers. "I did forget cranberries," he said. "What's turkey without cranberries?" "And candy and nuts for the children's stockings?" Jenny filled in. "Oh, I thought of that," smiled Mr. Smith. "And did you see my wreath on the door, Mrs. Pearson?" "Tt's beautiful," said Jenny. "Simply beautiful." Jenny watched Mr. Smith hurry away. She was sure his Christmas would. Be just that — simply beautiful. ' ~ It was early morning on the day of Christmas Eve, when Jenny heard the rustle of the curtains in her bedroom, and the whining of the wind as the branches of the bare trees lashed against the house. Storm! It always meant a hard storm when the wind blew like that from the east. She got up hastily and shut the windows. "It just can't storm now. It's Christmas Eve," said Jenny complainingly, as she passed Sharen's door, the fine snowflakes already dancing in the wind. "Let it snow," said Sharen 39 JANUARY 1965 sleepily. "It'll be more like Christmas. Just what we need." 'A lot you know about it," said Jenny grudgingly. '"With your father out there, somewhere on the highway, trying to get home for Christmas, and Mr. Smith expecting Julie Anne and her family to make the day for him — of course I don't want it to snow." Sharen was wide awake now, with concern for her mother. "You know Big Bertha gets Dad through anything, Mom, and we can always take care of Mr. Smith on Christmas. We've done it before. But why give up already! Julie Anne's husband might just drive them through easily." Jenny didn't know why fear had suddenly engulfed her, but she had no heart for Christmas now. She busied herself with routine housework, and _ soon Sharen came down the stairs in cool confidence. Jenny ate breakfast with her, as the weather outside grew more blustery. "Let's both run over to Amy's and give her a hand with the housework. Ralph's been gone to work for several hours by now." Jenny shuddered. "They say the mail's real heavy this year. Poor fellow, having to buck weather like this. Sharen rose. "I love this weather," she said. 'It makes one feel so safe inside." "Young hearts," said Jenny. "I wish I didn't have to worry about neighbors and snowstorms and Christmas, but I can't help it. Come on, let's go over to Amy's."' THE two women wrapped up in warm clothing to face the blizzard outside. It was now in full 40 force, and the snow was drifting in little piles here and there. Jenny and Sharen started out the door, when the phone rang. 'You go ahead and I'll answer the phone," Jenny said, and Sharen hurried up the road east to Amy's house. "Doug!" Jenny was overjoyed when she lifted up the receiver, to find the call was from her husband. "I've been so worried. Can you get through?" They talked on. The storm was rough. Some roads were closed. He had stopped for lunch and wanted her to know he was on the way. "T']]_ make it," said Douglas confidently. "You can count on Bertha to get through anything. But if I don't — just think of me comfortably asleep on a load of soft mattresses. "Wait up for me, Jenny. It's Christmas Eve." His last words made Jenny feel gay and light. There was no need to worry. Doug would be home. She looked around her rooms. There was beauty here and comfort. There was a quiet Christmas spirit that she could now feel. She had been too worried and busy to really see the tree that Sharen had finally found time to trim. It was beautiful, an artistic job. The lights winked at Jenny with friendliness, and the big pine cones on the mantle, with greenery, were a perfect correlation to the rest of the room. SHAREN was vacuuming the floors when Jenny entered. Amy was holding her baby, and the two small children were cutting picture books. Then the news came over the radio. Daniel's Canyon was closed. Road blocks were general throughout the State. Jenny burst into tears. Then Doug wouldn't get through. "I'd counted on it so. A good Christmas for everyone. How can we ever have Christmas without your father?" Jenny looked at Sharen helplessly. "And Mr. Smith! He was so sure that Julie Anne would come." "Mother, Dad will get through," said Sharen protectingly putting an arm around her mother. "You'll see." Jenny wrapped herself in her coat and scarf. "TI'll go and see how Mr. Smith is taking this," she said. 'He'll be so disappointed.'"' She went to her home, leaving Sharen to stay with Amy. No sooner had she entered her house when the doorbell rang loudly. Jenny opened the door, and there stood Mr. Smith, the wind whipping about him. He looked unhappy and dejected. Jenny hurried him into the house. "T suppose you've heard! Canyon's closed," he said. "Yes," said Jenny. "The radio announced that it might be closed for several days, depending on when the storm subsides." "I've tried to call my daughter, but the wires are down up in that area where they live, and I have no way of knowing whether they started out or not." "But, Mr. Smith!" Jenny grew excited. '"There's still a possibility that your family might come. Food and things away." Jenny was sorry for her fine old neighbor. The snow beat against the windows in fierce persistence, as she tried to watch The You shouldn't give your. WAIT UP FOR ME, JENNY his bent figure going to his home. He had said he would return with a sleigh and together they would go to Amy's, taking the things that had given him so much joy in preparation for the anticipated visit of his daughter and her family. It was not long before Mr. Smith returned with a large hand sleigh stacked high with the good things that he had gathered together for Amy's Christmas. A large basket held the turkey and all the trimmings. There were pies, cookies, and various breads, packaged vegetables, and candy and nuts and popcorn balls. IN a few minutes, the beauty of Christmas moved into Amy's small household. The wreath went on the door, the turkey was put in the oven to roast, the toys were done up by Sharen in gay wrappings. Amy could only look on in honest gratitude, and the children stood around in wonderment as they saw the larder filled with many good things. "Now for the tree," said Mr. Smith. "Ill bring it up, but Pll leave the trimming to you, Sharen." "But, Mr. Smith!" exclaimed Jenny, "you'll have to keep your tree! Why, your children would expect that more than any part of Christmas.".. Mr. Smith was determined in his purpose. "They won't be here," he said with finality. '""Anyway, these children need the tree."' The tree was brought, and Sharen trimmed it with the ornaments in Amy's basement. "Merry Christmas!" said Amy, with moist eyes. "Imagine what 41 JANUARY 1965 Ralph will think, coming home to — this. He'll think Santa Claus is real for sure. Mr. Smith, Jenny, and Sharen, I can't thank you enough, but when I get on my feet, I'll try. Indeed, I will." Amy cried softly from sheer joy. "Now you just enjoy everything. That's all that we want," said Mr. Smith. He looked glad again. THE three put on their coats and took their leave. They walked home in the early dusk. The wind had died, and the snow was coming straight down, the heavy flakes covering everything like a white mantle. When they got to the driveway Jenny paused. "Now theré's no object in your going to that lonely house on Christmas Eve. You come in with us, Mr. Smith, and spend the evening. "T've cooked a ham and I'll fix us some supper," she continued, as her aged neighbor smiled his acceptance. "And we'd better eat some of the pies, too," said Sharen, "if Father isn't coming for Christmas...." "Stop it!' said Jenny vehemently. "Your Father has to come. I'm waiting up for him," she added, with firm determination. Sharen laughed. "I guess Vl wait up for him, teo, Mom," she said, as she opened the door and turned on the lights. Jenny lit the fire and settled Mr. Smith in front of it, with the newspaper, while she and Sharen bustled about in the kitchen fixing the supper on the trays: In minutes they were all 42 enjoying a festive repast in front of the crackling fire. Soon young people began to come, Sharen's friends who were out making their Christmas Eve calls. They sang and laughed and talked. Jenny was glad when they left, taking Sharen with them. Tonight, she just couldn't enter into their gaiety. She wanted to think of Douglas, and listen for the sound of the big motor, that might not come. She and Mr. Smith were left by themselves. "We might as well watch the program," said Jenny, turning on the television. "The music is usually pretty good on Christmas Eve." Tue hours slipped by. Jenny hardly followed any of the bits on the screen. She could only think of Douglas out there in the wilderness of snow. Where was he? When it was eleven o'clock Jenny shut off the music. '"'"Sometimes it's just too much, Mr. Smith. Music makes me lonely," said Jenny. And suddenly she heard the sound — the familiar whirring, dinning noise of a powerful motor in the distance. She sat tense and motionless on the edge of her chair listening. "Tt's Doug, Mr. Smith!" cried Jenny, rushing to the window. "Tt's my husband, I know it is." She looked far up the street to the east. Now she could see the lights, casting big reflections before them. And then she saw the van, with the flashing red lights at the top of the cab. It really was Doug. He was safe at home. Jenny screamed with delight and ran outside, not minding the snow that had piled in drifts all around her. Doug was just getting out, and in a moment, Jenny was in his arms. "T knew you'd come," she said. "Oh, I just knew it." Her voice trailed off, as she saw people getting out of the cab. A man and a woman emerged from the shadows. "Julie Anne," said Jenny. "You got here for Christmas! Mr. Smith, oh, Mr. Smith, they're here!" Mr. Smith had come to the door. Now he had the full impact of the excitement. And her husband were coming toward him. "T'll get that rear door open," said Douglas. '"T'll bet these kids are sound asleep on the mattresses." One by one the four children tumbled out from the back end of the van. "Well, this is great," said Mr. Smith, as his grandchildren came toward him. "You mean you're all here?" "Indeed we are," said Julie Anne, as she hugged her father, and the children gathered around sleepy-eyed. "And here's your Christmas tree,"' said Douglas, setting a fully trimmed tree before them in a snowdrift. "We brought everything," laughed Julie Anne. "Turkey, food, gifts, and things for Santa Claus for the little ones. Doug said there was still lots of room in the van, so why not the Christmas tree?" Julie Anne | WAIT UP FOR ME, JENNY "And lucky you did," said Mr. Smith, with a wink at Jenny. The little procession began, led by Mr. Smith to his own house. Everyone carried something — baskets, suitcases, and carton boxes loaded with things for a happy holiday. Julie Anne's husband carried the tree. Soon they were all on the threshold of the big, old house. "Merry Christmas," they all called." "Merry Christmas!" returned Doug and Jenny. "We'll see you tomorrow." "How did you ever strike it so lucky?" asked Jenny, as she and Doug went into the house. "I had no idea that you really would bring them." "After you suggested over the phone that I stop and see them, I did, and I gave them ten minutes to get loaded into the van. Julie Anne really wanted to come, and you should have seen them scramble. We got into the canyon just before it was closed for travel." "It was certainly thoughtful of you to bring the tree," laughed Jenny. 'Well, it's like Sharen said, just after you left, and there was so much uncertainty about getting everything done for Christmas, 'Christmas has a way, Mom, of coming right to your door when the big day comes,' and it has." Jenny smiled up at Doug. "And here comes Sharen."' Jenny could hear the cars in the driveway. Douglas stretched his long arms, then closed them around Jenny. "I'm glad you waited up for me," he said affectionately. "Merry Christmas." 43 sd rs nd "4 ae ae rheetereeey Laura L. Christensen —Winner of Blue Ribbons Laura Lorentzen Christensen, Moore, Idaho, has been an exhibitor at the Eastern Idaho State Fair since 1910, and has received 135 blue ribbons as awards for her dressmaking, tailoring, and many varieties of handwork. For fourteen years she served as supervisor of the needlework department at the Eastern Idaho State Fair. She is adept with the crochet hook, knitting needles, and paint brush. She makes many of her own designs and has developed a method of making hats and bags from iris leaves. She has made afghans and pillows from men's ties, dressed dolls for table decorations, has done leather tooling, has made a rug and a handbag from plastic bags; she has embroidered wool tapestries for wall hangings, and has made corsages from wood fiber, and hats of velvet, feathers, crepe paper, fur, and wool. She has tailored many suits for women, using materials cut from men's discarded suits, and has hand-sewed fifteen beautiful United States flags. In working with fur, she has made hats, caps, and capes from old coats. For many years Sister Christensen served Relief Society as stake work director, and, later, as president of Lost River Stake Relief Society. She is mother to ten children, grandmother to fifty-three, and great-grandmother to nine. ''Never an idle moment" has been the motto of her life. 44 CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Elsa Brienholt leaves her native Heidelberg for America. At the station she is bade goodbye by her mother and younger sister, Maria, as well as by Karl Ernst, a Church member who has recently come from Munich. In Salt Lake City, Elsa is met by the parents of Clay Knowlton, a member of the United States Armed Forces stationed in Heidelberg, who are sponsoring her. Tue Knowltons drove through the downtown. Streets to give Elsa her first view of the city, and then out to their home in the southeast. The mountains seemed so close it looked as if she could almost reach out and_ touch them. They also looked extremely high and rugged. At the house she was welcomed by fourteen-year-old Jean, and Burt, just turned seventeen. They were full of questions about their brother, whom they had not seen Mabel Harmer now for more than a year. Elsa had the feeling that they thought. There was something more serious between her and Clay than was actually the case. She wished that she knew just what to do about it, but decided she couldn't very well say, '"Now, look here. I am not engaged to marry your brother. I probably never shall be." Burt at once constituted himself her escort and stand-in for his absent brother. '"'There's a dance in the ward tonight," he said. "'Wouldn't you like to go?" "Thank you very much," she said, ''but, after riding on a bus for three nights I can't think of a more inviting place to go than to bed." "IT guess you're right," he agreed. 'Well, there'll be others. I told Clay that I'd look 45 JANUARY 1965 after you. Anyway, tomorrow is Saturday and no school, so we can go someplace. Do you like football?" "T don't know. What is it?" "Boy! Didn't you ever see a football game? That will be the ticket!" It was indeed the "ticket" as far as Elsa was concerned. The cheering and wild enthusiasm from both sides of the stadium were something she never could have imagined. Burt tried to explain something of the intricacies of the game, but without too much success. She had no difficulty, however, in mastering a "hot dog" and, on the whole, found the afternoon highly exciting and enjoyable. That evening Barbara Wilkins, from next door, came over to get acquainted. When they talked about Clay, Elsa couldn't help but notice the girl's heightened color and interest. She wondered how much, if anything, there was between them. Clay had never mentioned a girl back home who meant anything special to him, but that didn't mean _ there couldn't be one. THE next day Elsa went with the Knowltons to church. What a difference there was in the several hundred people in this ward and the few dozen at home! Everyone was very cordial, however, and made her most welcome. Qn the whole, she decided that she rather enjoyed the larger crowd. She was very anxious to find work and wanted to start looking on Monday morning. Mrs. Knowlton tried to persuade her to wait for a few days and get 46 acquainted with the city, but Elsa replied, "No, I may get homesick if I don't get busy. And that will never do at this distance. The only way I could get back now would be by walking and swimming." Since her only experience had been as a saleswoman, she went to several downtown stores and registered. The only encouragement she could get was for work after Thanksgiving, when the holiday buying would begin, and that might be only temporary. Thanksgiving was a whole month away. She simply had to find something to do before then. She couldn't impose upon the hospitality of the Knowltons much longer, although they were doing everything in their power to make her feel welcome. She knew that she could go up to her uncle's home in Idaho and, indeed, there was already an invitation to spend Thanksgiving with them, but she wanted very much to stay in Salt Lake City. "And I. Will,' she _ resolved. "There is certainly something I can do." It was not long before she began to suspect that there was something more to Burt's constant offers of escort than an order from Clay to "look after you." She knew, as any girl would, without undue vanity, that she was very pretty — had often been called beautiful. She knew, also, that a seventeen-yearold youth could be very impressionable, and it gave her additional reason for wanting to move away. She decided that, if nothing else showed up, she would have to take housework. It was the last thing she wanted, since she would have to be so much alone and not be able to make the contacts she had hoped for. But it might have to do for a while, anyway. She decided not to go to any more games or even to MIA with Burt, unless others of the family were along. Several times he had said, ''As soon as there is enough snow in the mountains I'm going to take you skiing." "But, I can't! I've never been on a pair of skis in my life," Elsa protested. "So what? Did you think the rest of us were born wearing them? There's really nothing to it. You work on the bunny slopes for a few times and then zoom! You ride the ski lift up the mountainside and come zipping down." "Unless you catch your ski on a loose root, or hit a big rock," said Jean. "Then you zip right headfirst into six feet of snow. But it's worth it. Unless you break a leg, of course. Lots of people do. I never have." "T'm sure it must be worth the risk," Elsa agreed. "Sometime when I feel that I can take a few weeks off to nurture a broken limb Ill give it a try." "You can't wait that long," said Burt, "on account of that time never comes. You have to dare and do. Anyway, no one breaks legs any more — much." HE was so insistent that she decided to go, thinking that Jean would also be along. It turned out, however, that she would have to use Jean's togs and skis. "Oh, I wouldn't think of doing that!" she exclaimed. 'That TURN OF THE WHEEL would mean that you have to give up your own day." "T didn't plan to go anyway," Jean replied. "I have a roller skating party on. You go ahead. You'll love it." "Providing I don't come back in an ambulance," said Elsa. They went in a station wagon with four other young people, and it did seem the start of an exciting day. Even though the others were all high school friends of Burt's, they were fun to be with. She was amazed at how quickly they reached the ski area at Brighton and how many hundreds of people were there. They seemed to be of all ages, ranging from tots of six or seven to their grandparents. Burt parked the car and they all proceeded to put on their skis. He helped put on hers and then took her over to the practice slopes where the beginners were learning to stay upright on the "boards." The rest of their party quickly got in line for the ski lift. "You must join them, too," she said to Burt. "I'm not going to ruin your day. Besides, I don't want you around when I fall down." "T'll come in mighty handy to get you upright again," he retorted. "Especially if your skis come off and you can't put them back on." He helped her a few times and she was surprised at how much she enjoyed it and how quickly she mastered the art of staying upright. She finally persuaded Burt to join the others at the ski lift and kept on practicing by herself. At noon they went into the — lodge for a lunch of chili, buns, and hot cocoa. It was great fun, 47 JANUARY 1965 and she was more than glad that she had come. She rested for awhile after lunch and then went back to her practice slopes. She longed to join the others, as she watched them gliding so effortlessly down the mountainsides, but she knew that it would take a lot more practice before she could tackle anything like that. Burt came back again to help her, and just before it was time to leave, he said, "I think that you ought to go up on the ski lift just for the ride. The scenery is out of this world." "Tt is most certainly up from this world at any rate," she agreed. They went over to the platform, and she was fastened into one of the slowly moving chairs. It was exciting indeed to ride up above the snow-laden trees and to look over the rooftops of the lodges and cabins.: At THE top of the lift she was swung out again by an attendant. Burt was in the chair just behind and he took her over to the edge of the platform to show her the ake and dam below. "This is Twin Lakes," he said, "only it's all one. Maybe the twin is over on the other side of the mountain, or something." "It must be beautiful up here in the summertime," she said. "Tt sure is. You'll see. We come up here for picnics and outings all the time. It's nice and cool." "It's nice and cold right now. Maybe we'd better go back down." They walked back to the ski lift, and to Elsa's consternation 48 saw that it had stopped running. "Golly, I didn't know it was that late," said Burt. 'Well, it's a good thing you've had all that practice. On account of you're going to go down on top of the snow instead of over it." "Isn't there a chance that we can get them to run it up here just once again?" "None in the world. They know that somebody would keep them going all night if they came back at every call. Come on. We'll make it all right. I'll help you." As she looked down the steep slopes, Elsa was a long way from sharing his confidence. She would have given a great deal to be safely at the bottom again. "Look," said Burt, "you keep your skis on the inside, and I'll put mine on the outside. We'll go down together. I'll hold on tight to you. If we take a spill, don't worry. We'll just get up again and keep going. You'll be surprised how fast we'll get down." It was fast, all right — and something of a nightmare. Her surprise was in getting down safely at all. The others were watching with interest. "Quite a stunt," said Mike. "I reckon you'll be ski jumping next Saturday." "T reckon I'll be home in a rocking chair knitting an afghan next Saturday," said Elsa. "I'm so grateful to have come through this with my limbs intact, that I won't tempt fate again in a hurry." "Nonsense," scoffed Burt. "There wasn't a thing to it. All you need is to be guided by a big strong man like myself." What we both need is to get going on separate paths in a hurry, thought Elsa. She couldn't help wondering how much of this had been accidental. At any rate she wouldn't put herself in line to share any more adventures with this youngster. Sue was greatly relieved on Monday to get a call from one of the large department stores to report for work. It was in the gift department, and she felt very much at home among her beloved Hummel and _ Hutschenreuther figurines again. She touched some of them lovingly and would talk them up to every customer. "How is it that all your sales are for the German figurines?" asked the department head in some amusement. "Because I know them — and love them," Elsa replied. 'Anyway, I did sell one Royal Doulton yesterday. The lady has a collection and claims that she buys nothing else. Isn't that a pity?" Her next move was to find an apartment. She studied the ads in the newspapers, and when there was one listing a vacancy for a Latter-day Saint girl, she applied at once. It was to share an apartment with three other girls, and this suited her perfectly. They were all working girls, June a schoolteacher, and the other two — Margery and Elizabeth. In offices. The schedule was worked out very carefully as to which tasks each girl would do in any given week and adhered to so strictly that one was not even allowed to take over the dishwashing, except in a case of emergency. TURN OF THE WHEEL The only problem seemed to be closet space, since Margery was an inveterate seamstress who was always bringing home pieces of material that had caught her fancy. She had more than her share of the somewhat limited closet space and even had dresses hanging in cellophane bags in the kitchen storage closet. "Tt could be worse," said Elizabeth philosophically. "She could be a fancier of white rats — as my little brother is — or play jazz records all evening, as the girl did whose place you took." "Or even borrow our clothes and cosmetics as my landlady did before I came here," added June. Esa went to church with them on Sunday and again found herself in a large congregation. She was warmly received, but felt that she could very easily be lost in the crowd. "Do any of you have a position in the ward?" she asked. "June teaches a class in the Junior Sunday School, and Margery and I sing in the choir," Elizabeth replied. 'I guess that most of the jobs go to the members who have lived here rather permanently. The working girls, such as we are, come and go too frequently for them to pay much attenticn to us, I suppose. However, we are always welcome in the choir — or so I have found." Elsa joined them, since she was eager to be part of some organization and music was her first love anyway. One day she asked the director if it would be possible for her to practice occasionally on the organ. "TI played for our branch at home," she explained, ''but I haven't played an " JANUARY 1965 organ as large as this. Would it be all right for me to try?" "Yes, indeed," was the reply. "Come an hour before choir practice, if you wish. I'll arrange for the caretaker to let you have the use of it." Elsa went to work with great pleasure and enthusiasm. She soon learned the use of the foot pedals and practiced first on the Church hymns and then on other music. Early in December they began rehearsing for a Christmas cantata. There were extra practices, in addition to the regular choir rehearsals. One evening the choir director asked, "Sister Jennings has gone away for a couple of weeks. Do you want to try and take over?" "T should like it very much," Elsa replied. "I'll practice on the music every chance I get this week." She worked hard and soon had the music mastered well enough to satisfy the director. That, with the extra holiday buying at the store, kept her busy enough to forget all about the homesickness she had been dreading. Elsa had frequent letters from both Clay and Karl, besides weekly ones from her mother and sister, of course. Once in a while Clay's and Karl's letters would come at the same time, and it was always a problem to decide which one to open first. She solved it by shutting her eyes, turning the letters several times, and then reading the one that came out on top. "Tf you don't know which one you like best any more than that," said June, "it means that you don't love either one of them." "T haven't said that I did," agreed Elsa. "Then what about them? Which one is in love with you?" "So far neither one has offered me anything more than friendship." "Oh, dear, what a_ waste!" sighed June. "And here I was. Hoping to help solve an insoluable triangle. Anyway, I can still hope, can't I?" "Most assuredly. Along with myself, perhaps," smiled Elsa. On the last practice before presenting the Christmas cantata, Sister Jennings returned and took over as organist again. Elsa couldn't help being disappointed, but she realized that it was only fair. Last year she had played the organ for the program at home. This had been her own choice. She could have been playing the organ at home instead. (To be continued) THREAD OF LOVE Let a thread of love run through the center of your life and it will light and bless all those around you. — Catherine B. Bowles 50 uel FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Texas Mission, Odessa Branch Relief Society Display of "Stitched" Pictures Highlights Bazaar December 1963 Standing at the left: Beatrice Marie Chesser, Second Counselor; Delores James, Secretary; at the right: Nell B. Pitt, President; Cleo Eileen Hedrick, First Counselor. Laura C. Horne, President, Texas Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Machine-sewed, quilted pictures, with beautiful three-dimensional detail, became the center point of a well-organized and well-displayed bazaar, presented to the public in the main business district of Odessa. For some two months the interest of the public was drawn to the coming bazaar by the outstanding quality of these exceptional, hand-rubbed, and framed pictures. Made to fit the decor of all periods of fine furnishings, pictures sold as high as $139.95. They were displayed with recognition on television stations, in leading banks, stores of fine furnishings, and plainly stamped: 'Made by Odessa L. D. S. Relief Society.' This created a fine point for an opening discussion of missionary work, while sales mounted to better than $3,000. With the true spirit of missionary work, printed instructions were distributed to all branches of the Texas Mission. One of the pictures proudly hangs in the newly built and dedicated mission home at Dallas, Texas. 31 JANUARY 1965 Swedish Mission Relief Society Receives a Visit From a General Board Member for the First Time, April 25-27, 1964 Seated, front row, left to right: Agness Carlstrém, translator; Britta Rydstrém, Secretary, Swedish Mission Primary Association; La Vern W. Parmley, President, Primary Association; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Marianne Tenstrém, President, Swedish Mission Relief Society; Jean W. Fletcher, Supervisor, Swedish Mission Relief Society. The other sisters in the picture are members of the Relief Society and Primary presidencies of the five districts of the Swedish Mission. Sister Tenstrém reports that a dinner party was held in Stockholm on April 25, 1964, for all the mission district leaders, at which time Sister Young and Sister Parmley were honored, and gifts were presented to them. For the occasion, Eva Gerling, Eva Myrberg, and Bergit Pearson were dressed in Swedish national costumes. On March 17, 1964, the Stockholm First Branch presented a skit called "Sixty Years Ago," and representing the time when the chapel in Stockholm was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant. Irma Hodell, President, Stockholm First Branch Relief Society, wrote the skit, which presented the sisters hard at work preparing for the great day of the chapel dedication. Greda Andersson, Ethel Ramsden, and Inez Perciwall, also participated as characters in the skit. Asa child, Sister Perciwall, accompanied her mother to the chapel dedication sixty years ago. Ammon Stake (! Daho), Idaho Falls Twenty-Sixth Ward Nursery Pictured assisting the children are Kay Zorn and Jean Smith. Emma Jane Nelson, President, Ammon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Twenty-sixth Ward have placed special emphasis on making their Relief Society nursery an ideal place for the children of their ward. Their nursery is, indeed, one of the most outstanding in our stake. Note the clever aprons worn by each child. Sister Smith is now the president of this ward, although this article and picture were submitted by Harriett Kerr, the former president. Sister Kerr, in explaining some of the elements of the successful nursery in her ward, stated: 'We begin by selecting gentle baby sitters who will assure our younger groups that mother will be right back, and who will quietly usher our older groups into the Junior Sunday School room, where they will happily encounter flannel board stories and well-known songs. After this comes activity time. The picture shows one such period in which our children were busy and intent upon pasting popcorn on a bare, pre-arranged apricot tree. As the children come to meet their mothers at the conclusion of Relief Society, they are smiling, and we feel that everyone leaves with a spirit of fulfillment. One little girl comes alone because she hasn't yet convinced Mother it is a wonderful place to be.'" San Joaquin Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts Modesto, May 2, 1964, and Stockton, June 5, 1964 Leona B. Hansen, former president, Modesto Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty-five sisters spent many hours the past six months preparing for our Singing Mothers concerts. We placed special emphasis on inviting our nonmember friends, and the two evenings brought over 400 people to enjoy the evenings of music. Sister Francelle Larsen conducted, with Janet Odum at the piano, and Karlyn Brett at the organ. As one sister expressed her feelings, 'I have never felt closer to my Father in heaven.' Indeed, it was a spiritual feast." The new President of San Joaquin Stake Relief Society is Leona Brown Hansen. 52 a Pearl Harbor Stake (Hawaii) Singing Mothers Present Music For Relief Society Conference in New Stake House May 10, 1964 Fern Pule, chorister, is seated first on the right in the front row; Leiamalama Sniffen, organist, sixth from the right in the front row; Barbara Chlarson, former first counselor, fifth from the right in the front row; standing at the left, second row: Evelyn Miyamoto, First Counselor; Dawn Mangum, Second Counselor; inset, Virginia Harbertson, President. Sister Harbertson reports: "These dear sisters outdid themselves in the effort they put forth in preparing the music for this conference. It was sung as only the Hawaiian sisters can sing. They truly carried the message to 'Lift Thine Eyes,' and renewed the promise 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments.' It was truly a wonderful experience, for they found that they could learn the music when they felt that they could not. We were all touched very deeply, knowing that the Lord will always be ready to help us." Uruguayan Mission, Capital District, Rodo South Branch Relief Society Conducts Successful Bazaar The photograph shows a booth decorated with flowers, and displaying foods and handicraft. At the left, back of the sisters, a number of originally designed potholders, aprons, dresses, and other well-made and attractive articles are displayed. In nearly all the branches of this mission two bazaars are held each year. One is held during the winter, with emphasis being placed on knitted articles. Another bazaar is held during the summer. An outstanding activity of the Relief Societies of the Uruguayan Mission is cooperation with the construction program. When a missionary is called, the Relief Society provides him with clothing for his mission. The sisters also cook and sew for the construction missionaries, and hold special fiestas in order to raise funds for the program. The sisters are realizing their responsibility in encouraging the Priesthood to magnify their callings and are giving great encouragement to the fulfillment of the calling of a Church builder. They are also meeting the request of President David O. McKay that every member be a missionary. They have a fellowshipping program in which they try to help new members, reactivated members, and nonmembers, who are made to feel welcome in the Relief Society and in other Church organizations and activities. Carmen C. De Galli is president of the Uruguayan Mission Relief Society, and Eva B. Barton is supervisor. Hawaiian Mission Relief Society Leadership Convention Kahului, Maui, August 28-29, 1964 Seated, center front, left to right: Elder George W. Poulsen, Jr., President, Hawaiian Mission; Orlene J. Poulsen, Supervisor, Hawaii Mission Relief Society; Chiyo Meyers, President; Ethel Young, Education Counselor; Haruko Kiilau, Work Director Counselor; Pearl Mahi, Secretary. Sister Poulsen reports: "Sixty Relief Society women from four districts and twenty-three branches were in attendance at the convention. The sisters were told of the importance of their responsibilities, not only as Relief Society leaders, but as wives and mothers. Ideas for the nursery program, which is being introduced into the Hawaii Mission Relief Society, were presented, and discussions and demonstrations on the lesson material for the coming year were given. Bazaar items and samples of handwork were on display by the four districts, and the women were taught Lauhala weaving and rug making, while others learned how to cook some new dishes which were demonstrated. "In the evening, a delightful play, which emphasized the importance of active Relief Society membership, was presented by the Hawaii District Relief Society. Mary Soon, who had been released as mission work director counselor, was honored." 54 South German Mission Relief Society Convention July 10-11, 1964 Center, front row, standing, left to right: Genevieve S. Gardner, Supervisor; Margarete Opperman, President; to the left of Sister Gardner: Ursula Hubner, Counselor in district presidency; seated, second from the left, in the front row: Dorothea Mez, District President. Sister Gardner reports: "The two-day convention covered every phase of Relief Society. Excellent leadership sessions were held, giving help in every department. Effective charts and posters were on display, which encouraged better preparation and more effective teaching in each department. One morning was devoted to the responsibility of the Latter-day Saint wife in her home. The work meeting session featured quilting, which was new and interesting to everyone. Arts and crafts were taught, which included painting and ceramics, reed work, and the making of jewelry from silver and copper wire. Every sister took home some new and useful ideas. "Music was an important part of the convention. The highlight of the first day was an evening of music. Only Relief Society sisters participated on the program, but the house was filled to overflowing with branch members, Church building and full-time missionaries, and friends. A delightful play 'The Water Cure' was presented by members of the Freiburg Branch. Other highlights were films, 'The Awakening,' and the Tabernacle Choir film "With Music Ring.' Six sisters were honored for over twenty-five years in Relief Society, and were presented with a book." Liberty Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Leaders of Spring Social May 21, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Grace Giauque, work meeting leader; Ila Hatton, First Counselor; Jane Schipaanboord, President; Merida Huntsman, Second Counselor; Lillian Janke, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, left to right: Norma Johnson, chorister; Rose Woodruff, social science class leader; Faye Milner, literature class leader; Jane Jones, organist; Aleta Checketts; Ilah Carpenter, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Jensen; Ilene Bigelow, theology class leader. Inset picture: Luella Birrell, Magazine representative. Sister Schipaanboord reports: This year at our spring social we honored women, telling in the program and showing by display, their accomplishments and contributions in the building of the West and the making of our cultural life of today. 'First Ladies,' or representatives of First Ladies, were our guests of the day. Margaret Lee, First Lady of cur city reviewed the lives of six outstanding pioneer women. Anne Gledhill represented the General Board of Relief Society, and brought a message from the Board. Ann Hafen, President of the Utah Poetry Society, represented first ladies of literature and read some of her own poems. Margaret Black, First Lady of our stake, and Jane Schipaanboord, First Lady of Liberty Stake Relief Society, were also honored. A lovely musical program was rendered. The Liberty Stake recreation center was transformed into a spring garden under the able hands of Sister Giauque. Beautiful handmade quilts from nine wards and two branches were on display, and refreshments were served." 56 a THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants ———_— i Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 85) For First Meeting, April 1965 Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord and how claim to office may be tested. INTRODUCTION By commandment, William W. Phelps was promised certain bles- -sings after his baptism. (Section 55.) At this early period (June 1831), he was given the assignment to travel with the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon to Independence, Missouri, where he was to engage in the printing business. (Verses 4-5.) At the time the Prophet wrote to him (November 27, 1832) about conditions in Missouri, he was editor and printer of the Evening and Morning Star, the first periodical published by the Church. Brother Phelps was also an assistant to Bishop Edward Partridge. In reply to a letter from him, the Prophet, already concerned about the welfare of the saints in Missouri, gave instructions regarding the 58 allotting of inheritances to the saints. Matters of great weight rested upon the Prophet's mind and by inspiration he sensed the feelings of Brother Phelps in these words:... My God, great and mighty art Thou, therefore show unto Thy servant what shall become of those who are essaying to come up unto Zion, in order to keep the commandments of God, and yet receive not their inheritance by consecrations, by order of deed from the Bishop, the man that God has appointed in a legal way, agreeably to the law given to organize and regulate the Church, and all the affairs of the same (DHC I:298). Then, revealing the source of his own feelings toward Brother Phelps, the Prophet wrote: Brother William, in the love of God, having the most implicit confidence in you as a man of God, having obtained this confidence by a vision of heaven, therefore I will proceed to unfold to you some of the feelings of my heart, and to answer the question (Jbid.). LETTERS AS REVELATIONS From this letter of November 27, 1832, we have received Section 85 of the Doctrine and Covenants. (DHC 1:298-299.) Historically, there are many examples of letters becoming scripture as the writer was inspired to pen words of admonition, encouragement, and commandment. The apostle Paul indicated that his knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ was received not from men but from the Lord, the Giver of revelation. (Galatians 1:11-12.) Christian scripture consists of many letters written to branches of the Church and to individuals during the New Testament period. (Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Colossians, Timothy, etc.) The apostles Peter and John have also contributed scripture in the form of letters. In The Book of Mormon we have the letter of Mormon to his son Moroni that explains the doctrine of the atonement as it relates to little children. (Moroni 8.) Subsequent sections in the Doctrine and Covenants also come from letters. (Sections 121, 122, 123, 127, 128.) CHURCH RECORD TO BE KEPT Important instructions were given to the "Lord's clerk" in _ Zion (Missouri) regarding the - keeping of a faithful record. Under the law of consecration the - steward was required to manage | his inheritance (stewardship), not only for his own welfare but also for the general purposes of the Church. Records were to be LESSON DEPARTMENT kept of those who consecrated their property and of the stewardships received. (D&C 85:1.) The following verse of the revelation describes somewhat the nature of some of our records of today: "And also their manner of life, their faith, and works...." In that day those who came to Zion and did not consecrate, and, consequently, did not receive an inheritance, were considered unfaithful to their covenants. A penalty for these and also those who had apostatized after receiving their inheritance was not to have their names enrolled with the faithful. (Verses 2-3.) BOOK OF LIFE An accurate record of acts is maintained in the heavens comparable with the recordings made in the "book of the law of God" (see D&C 85:1-5) kept by the Lord's clerk on the earth. In a later revelation, the Lord emphasized the necessity for keeping accurate records that there might be agreement with the "book of life' which is kept in heaven. (Ibid., 128:7.) In the New Testament period, John the Revelator explained that all things shall be inherited by the faithful, while the disobedient shall not enter into the abode of God. And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a, lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life (Revelation 21:27). The Lamb's book of life is the book of life kept in the heavens. PRESENT APPLICATION In 1832 and as long as the law of consecration was in force, the 59 JANUARY 1965 Lord intended that his saints would prepare themselves against the day of burning when the Savior would come in flaming fire taking vengeance upon those who were not keeping his commandments. (D&C 85:3; II Thessalonians 1:7-8.) This message is similar to the promise that the same judgment would come to those who would not tithe: Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming. For after today cometh the burning — this is speaking after the manner of the Lord — for verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of Hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon. Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today (D&C 64: 23-25). It is apparent from the discussion about the book of life and its purpose, that the inheritance of the saints in the future life will be determined by their faithfulness. In the annual conference of 1900, speakers mentioned this subject and also applied Section 85 to conditions as they are now. The law of consecration in force in 1832 is not required of the saints today, but every member of the Church is under obligation to keep the commandments, among which is the law of tithing. By commandment, a faithful record is kept of the non-tithe payers as well as of those who pay tithing. In the language of Elder Rudger Clawson:... The lines are being drawn. It must be known to the authorities of 60 this Church and to the people who are faithful and who are not faithful. God requires it and it must be recorded, for the reason plainly set forth in the revelation, that those whose names are not found recorded in the book of the law of God shall have no inheritance in Zion in that day when our eternal inheritance shall be divided out to us (Conference Report, April 1900, page 44). "THE STILL SMALL VOICE" There are various means by which the Lord communicates with his children and, especially, the prophets. In the Doctrine and Covenants there are many forms of revelation noted: for example, the visitation of heavenly beings, Section 27; by vision, as Section 76; the use of the Urim and Thummin, as Sections 3, 6, 7, 11; inspiration, Sections 8, 20 and 21, and other ways. We come now to another method of revelation — the Lord speaking into the mind. An example is Enos, who, while struggling in the spirit said: "behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind again..." (B. Of M., Enos 10). Jeremiah experienced revelation in this same way. (Jeremiah 1:4, 11, 13.) One of the notable experiences of the Prophet Joseph Smith in receiving revelation is found in Section 85, as follows: Yea, thus saith the still small voice, which whispereth through and pierceth all things, and often times it maketh my bones to quake while it maketh manifest... (Verse 6). Nephi, in calling his wayward brothers to repentance, reminded them of the times when an angel "hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his words" (I Nephi 17:45). Every member of the Church is entitled to receive divine guidance in the daily affairs of his life, as well as in his Church positions. President Heber J. Grant once said: The Lord gives to many of us the still, small voice of revelation. It comes as vividly and strongly as though it were with a great sound. It comes to each man, according to his needs and faithfulness, for guidance in matters that pertain to his own life. For the Church as a whole it comes to those who have been ordained to speak for the Church as a whole... (Conference Report, April 1945, page 9). Very early in the dispensation, the Lord revealed that there was only one person at a time who has the right and power to receive revelation for the Church (D&C 28:2-7; 43:2-4, Lesson 18, Relief Society Magazine, August 1959.) INTERPRETATION Verses 7 and 8 of Section 85 were given by the Lord about Bishop Edward Partridge and his calling in regulating the Church in Missouri, with special reference to the law of consecration. Because of a misunderstanding of - this revelation, President Joseph F. Smith and his counselors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund, wrote upon this subject for the benefit of the believer. In their preface to their interpretation, they wrote: Perhaps no other passage in the revelations of the Lord, in this dispensation, has given greater rise to so much speculation as this one. [D&C 85:6-8.] Also, it has been used by vain and foolish men to bolster up their vagaries of speculation, and in some cases their pretensions to great LESSON DEPARTMENT power and high positions they were to attain in the Church.... One would think in such a matter as this that sufficient native modesty would assert itself to restrain a man from announcing himself as the one upon whom such high honors are to be conferred, and who is to exercise such great powers in establishing the Saints in their inheritances; and that even if one suspected, for any reason, that such a position, and such exceptional powers were to be conferred upon him, he would wait until the Lord would clearly indicate to the Church, as well as to himself, that he has been indeed sent of God to the work of so noble a ministry, as is described in the passage under question. Those, however, who have so far proclaimed themselves as_ being _the "one mighty and strong," have manifested the utmost ignorance of the things of God and the order of the Church. Indeed their insufferable ignorance and egotism have been at the bottom of all their pretensions, and the cause of all the trouble into which they have fallen. They seem not to have been aware of the fact that the Church of Christ and of the Saints is completely organized, and that when the man who shall be called upon to divide unto the Saints their inheritances comes, he will be designated by the inspiration of the Lord to the proper authorities of the Church, appointed and sustained according to the order provided for the government of the Church (/mprovement Era, 10:929-930, October 1907). These are the verses that concern us in this lesson: And it shall come to pass that I, the Lord God, will send one mighty and strong, holding the scepter of power in his hand, clothed with light for a covering, whose mouth shall utter words, eternal words; while his bowels shall be a fountain of truth, to set in order the house of God, and to arrange by lot the inheritances of the saints whose names are found, and the names of their fathers, and of 61 JANUARY 1965 their children, enrolled in the book of the law of God; While that man, who was called of God and appointed, that putteth forth his hand to steady the ark of God, shall fall by the shaft of death, like as a tree that is smitten by the vivid shaft of lightning (D&C 85:7-8). In their explanation of these verses, the First Presidency set forth these ideas: 1. Conditions of jealousy, pride, unbelief, and hardness of heart prevailed among the brethren in Missouri. (Ibid., 84:54-58, 76.) Bishop Edward Partridge was a party to this condition, resulting in the foregoing revelation being received. 2. Bishop Partridge and most of the saints in Missouri partially repented, although in March 1833, the Lord declared that he was not well pleased with the bishop. Eight years later he died due to. Persecution in Missouri, forgiven of the Lord. Who shall say that his repentance, his sacrifices, his sufferings and faithfulness did not procure for him a mitigation of the severe judgment decreed against him in the revelation contained in the eighty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants? At any rate, the Lord said, some three years later, that he was well pleased with Bishop Partridge (Improvement Era 10:938-9389; see also DHC II: 302-303). 3. Bishop Partridge was the man referred to in the revelation who should fall by the shaft of death, if he did not repent. (D&C 85:8.) 4. If Bishop Partridge had not repented, the Lord would have appointed "one mighty and strong" to take his place; therefore, the First Presidency considered "the whole incident of the 62 prophecy closed" (Improvement Era 10:940). BISHOP EDWARD PARTRIDGE Bishop Edward Partridge was called to the bishopric February 4, 1831 (D&C 41:9), and at that time the Lord referred to him as "like unto Nathanael of old." Before this, he was a member of the Campbellites and joined the Church in December 1830. During the severe persecution of the saints in Missouri, due partly to their failure to keep the commandments of the Lord, he "acted a most noble, and self-sacrificing part, and bore many indignities with the greatest patience." Partly stripped of his clothing, the bishop was taken to the public square in Independence, Missouri, because he would not denounce The Book of Mormon and he was tarred and feathered, as the mob jeered. Later, he with five others, offered themselves as ransom for the Church even to be scourged and put to death, if that would stop the inhuman cruelties heaped upon the saints by the Missourians. Later, he assisted the saints in their drivings from Missouri, and assisted in their location in Illinois. On May 27, 1840, Bishop Partridge died in Nauvoo, accepted of the Lord. AN ALTERNATIVE From this revelation, there is no escape from the definite word of the Lord on how his servants are to be appointed. President Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors drew attention to the important truth that if there was ever a need for the "one mighty and strong" he would have to occupy the same position as Bishop Part- ridge — the Presiding Bishop. It would be that bishop's duty in the future, under the law of consecration, to "'arrange by lot the inheritances of the Saints."' (D&C 57:7, 15; 58:14, 17; 85:7.) Furthermore, that bishop would have to be called in the Lord's way, and not as men might wish to make their own rules. The order of calling Priesthood officers was established early in the dispensation. With the restoration of the Priesthood, it was stated that authority is necessary to call men into the Lord's service. Before this, Hyrum Smith was told that he was not to preach the gospel until he had been called. (Ibid., 11:15.) In the revelation on organizing the Church, Priesthood officers were to be appointed and ordained. (Ibid., 20:2-3, 38-39, 60.) Moreover, they were to be approved by a vote of the Church in appointed meetings. Verses 61-65.) These steps are necessary to receive the approval of the Lord: (1) a call by revelation or authority; (2) approval of the members of the Church; and (3) an ordination by one who has the authority. These steps were indicated later, as noted above, to validate the call of the President of the Church. (Jbid., 28:2-7; 43-2-4.)) The Presiding Bishop as all officers in the Church, is no exception, as witness the instruction concerning the appointment of Bishop Edward Partridge: And again, I have called my servant Edward Partridge; and I give a commandment, that he should be appointed by the voice of the church, and ordained a bishop unto the church, to leave his merchandise and to spend all his time in the labors of the church; LESSON DEPARTMENT To see to all things as it shall be appointed unto him in my laws in the day that I shall give them (Jbid., 41:9-10). [Italics by writer. ] Future bishops unto the Church will receive their appointment in the same manner. The Lord declares that there can be no exception. Pretenders to Church office or to the rights and privileges of the Church have arisen and _ will probably continue to arise occasionally; therefore, it behooves Latter-day Saints to be aware of the foregoing keys against deception. In concluding their message on this revelation (Section 85), President Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors wrote in 1907:... We would say that the Latterday Saints by this time, should be so well settled in the conviction that God has established his Church in the earth for the last time, to remain, and no more to be thrown down, or destroyed; and that God's house is a house of order, of law, of regularity, that erratic disturbers of that order of men... Ought not to have any influence with them, nor ought the Saints to be disturbed in their spirit by such characters and their theories. The Church of Christ is with the Saints. It has committed to it the law of God ~ for its own government and perpetuation. It possesses every means for the correction of every wrong or abuse or error which may from time to time arise, and that without anarchy, or even revolution; it can do it by process of evolution — by development, by an increase of knowledge, wisdom, patience and charity (Improvement Era 10:942). NO INHERITANCES FOR SOME The remaining verses of Section 85 reaffirm, with emphasis, that the unfaithful members of the Church not having their names recorded in the book of the law will not obtain an inheri- 63 JANUARY 1965 tance, but their lot will be found among the unbelievers where there are wailing and gnashing of teeth. (Verses 9-11.) The consequences of disobedience are serious indeed when one considers the penalty imposed upon the children of the priest. (Ezra 2:61-63.) They shall be cut off from the ordinances of the house of the Lord, and from their fathers who are dead and who were faithful. The separation of fathers, mothers, and children in eternity with the loss of eternal life, is far more serious than some members of the Church are prone to consider. President Joseph F. Smith in discussing this matter was emphatic, as brought out in this lesson, that Section 85 not VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE only has reference to the law of consecration but also to the law of tithing because it took the place of the former law. (Conference Report, October 1899, page 42.) QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Tell what circumstances brought forth Section 85. 2. Why would you believe that letters can be scripture? 3. What relationship is there between the book of life and the book of the law? 4. Discuss: Section 85 is a commandment to observe the law of tithing. 5. What is the still small voice and who may enjoy its promptings? 6. What does the Lord say in Section 85 about the penalty of disobedience to his commandments? Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 63 — ''For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works..." (D&é 76:111). For First Meeting, April 1965 Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions. Gne of the most clearly established facts outlined in the scriptures is that men shall be judged by their works. Both ancient and modern scriptures are replete 64 with statements supporting this fact. The Savior in his parables and in his sermons frequently stressed the importance of performing good works. He said, "Ye shall know them by their fruits" (Matt. 7:16), and emphasized the fact that, '""Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father..." (Matt. 7:21). Also, "Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock" (Matt. 7:24). The apostle James admonishes us, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves" (James 1:22). The prophet Nephi said that the day should come "that they must be judged of their works, yea, even the works which were done by the temporal body..." (1 Nephi 15:32). The great King Benjamin instructed his people to believe in God and in his wisdom and power both in heaven and on earth, and warned them, "now, if you believe all these things see that ye do them" (Mosiah 4:10). This standard of ''works'"' is one which has become a measure of an individual's worth, not only in religious matters but also in his attainments in every field of activity. We are judged by the skills we develop and apply, by our accomplishments, our attitudes, and by the extent and application of our wisdom. A great pianist, amidst thunderous applause, had just finished his masterful rendition of an extremely difficult concerto. After the performance one of his admirers approached him saying, "My, how wonderful! I would LESSON DEPARTMENT give my life to play as you do."' To which the Maestro replied, "Madam, so far that is exactly what I have given." Regardless of the extent of our abilities, unless we work and develop them, we will never gain the highest achievement which we may obtain. In this great Church of the Lord's we shall not be entitled to the love and respect of our friends and neighbors nor the blessings from our Father in heaven simply because of our knowledge or gospel _ scholarship. Although knowledge and scholarship are important, they are useful only to the extent to which they are put to work in action in our lives. In this message from the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord said, that ''every man shall receive according to his own works." This means that we cannot expect to lean on someone else's abilities or upon another's testimony. We must work diligently and develop our own. We must have the courage and the wisdom to be ourselves and to rely on ourselves. In the final analysis this is the only basis upon which we shall be judged. Someone has aptly said that no one can develop his muscles by sending his servant to the gymnasium. In a like manner our Father in heaven will not recognize a proxy statement when we present ourselves before him. Only if our own works so justify will we hear that blessed welcome, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant... Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord" (Matt. 25:21). 65 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3 — 'Faith, tf It-Hath Not Works, Is Dead'' (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, March 1965 Objective: To emphasize the fact that in order to obtain maximum blessings from the gospel of Jesus Christ, its teachings must be translated from belief into worthy action. INTRODUCTION Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone (James 2:17). Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven (Matt. 7:21). Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin (James 4:17). THESE are significant scriptures. They state, in essence, that merely having a belief or knowledge of a gospel truth is not enough. Moreover, that for those who believe and understand the law but do not comply with the law, it will be considered as a "sin." The implication is that we shall be judged in ratio to the light and understanding we possess. An awareness of this truth is essential for every individual who would, through conscious effort, increase his mental and spiritual growth and who would influence others for good. The importance of translating belief into action is basic to the Family Home Evening Program and also to these lessons which are written in support of that program. It is espe- 66 cially important that mothers be aware of this truth as_ they guide their children from infancy to adulthood. * If ideas which are to be developed' as lessons are to have vitality, class members must become sufficiently involved that they will be led to think about those ideas and to ask questions. These lessons, however, will not have fulfilled their general objective unless they motivate us actually to put into practice the ideas and gospel teachings discussed. KNOWLEDGE PLUS ACTION It is encouraging to know that perfection is not attained in a day. It is helpful to realize that consistent and constant effort may be necessary in order to replace a particular behavior pattern with a better one. Nor is there disgrace in failing to achieve, if one earnestly tries — only in the unwillingness to try. The inhabitants of the ancient city of Enoch did not arrive at a condition of "exceeding" righteousness suddenly, nor by merely knowing the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but by living them. For two centuries after the appearance of the Savior on the Western Hemisphere, the Lamanites and the Nephites enjoyed the peace and happiness which are fruits of righteous living. We read in Fourth Nephi, verses 15-18:... There was no contention in the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults.... There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God. And how blessed were they! This state of happiness was not achieved by merely believing that Jesus is the Christ, but by incorporating into their lives the principles of righteous' living which his gospel embraces. VALUE OF CONSISTENT EFFORT Countless examples of the methods and the value of consistent effort might be cited. A simple illustration is that of the versatile Benjamin Franklin who, in his early teens, drew up a solemn and earnest list of thirteen virtues he wished to practice as a means of improving his character. In a small account book he LESSON DEPARTMENT recorded his successes and failures with the virtues. Franklin did not approach this project of self-improvement as a temporary. Effort, nor as a generalized resolve, but as a concentrated, specific endeavor. He focused his effort upon one virtue at a time, hoping that by so doing he would carve a pattern of performance which would be effective and lasting. TODAY VERSUS TOMORROW There is much value in acting promptly upon a worthy resolve. Resolutions, repeatedly postponed, can create a pattern of postponement. When unfilled objectives become numerous, a feeling of inadequacy and frustration often results. Whenever possible and practical, today, not next week nor next month, is the time to begin action on our good resolves. BELIEF VERSUS PERFORMANCE One of the strange paradoxes of human behavior is that we perform less well than we know how. Why is this so? Why do we not put into practice the principles which we know are right and which we know should be put into practice? That there is a gap between the level of understanding and the level of performance is well known to all trained teachers; it should be a subject of interest and concern to all parents. Each mother who takes her responsibility seriously will be led to ask herself, at one time or another, "How can I be more effective in motivating our children to perform in closer accord with the teachings of the gospel?" More 67 JANUARY 1965 importantly, she may analyze herself with such questions as these: "Do my activities correspond with the values I say are most important to me? Why do I not maintain an attitude of patience in particular situations, when I know how important such an attitude is? What are the restraining forces which keep me from making necessary preparations on Saturday, in order that the Sabbath at our home may be more nearly as it should be — a day of rest and religious devotion?" An understanding, at least to some degree, of why a person performs as he or she does, is the basis of a sympathetic understanding of that person. This is of special importance in the mother and child relationship, and will be considered more concretely in a future lesson. LESSON APPLICATION Discussing the experiences of others is often useful in bringing a person to an awareness and to a solution of his own problems. Consider the following: ' Sister A. She is a conscientious and resourceful woman. Although her children are now married and her household _ responsibilities have greatly decreased, she fills her days with varied and interesting activities. On many occasions, in the past, she had planned that someday she would take time personally to become acquainted with the scriptures, to read beyond _lesson - assigned chapter and verse. As the result of a particular Relief Society lesson, she was made acutely aware of the fact that time was slipping rapidly by 68 and that her reading objective remained unrealized. She _ resolved to begin at once, not next week nor next month. She adjusted her household schedule to allow for at least one half to one hour daily for the scripture-reading project. After two months of consistently following her plan she had established a performance pattern which was not difficult to follow. The satisfaction and spiritual insight which this activity brought, led her to wonder why she had not made this special effort long, long before. Sister B is the mother of six children. Motivated by a Relief Society theology lesson which stressed the spirituality and wisdom to be gained from a consistent reading of the scriptures, she decided she would really like to form this reading habit. However, as she checked her already closely scheduled days, she seriously wondered how she could possibly add even a half hour additional activity. She explained the situation and her desire to her two older children, ages thirteen and fifteen, who volunteered to relieve her of a particular household responsibility. Sister B was thus able to devote the time gained to the project. Her reading not only increased her understanding of the gospel, but she selected particular scriptures to share with the children in the Family Home Evening Program. Mothers must have a knowledge of the gospel not only to live righteously, but also in order to answer correctly questions of their children. Knowledge comes to them as they obey the words of the Savior "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me' (John 5:39). In this day of skepticism and material interests, there are some to whom one memory of their youth is a cherished heritage — evenings at home, with father or mother reading from the scriptures, the children listening attentively. Surely a return to this practice will be an enriching experience for today's child, who has a challenging and doubting world to meet. LITERATURE LESSON DEPARTMENT THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Is a reading of the scriptures one of your unrealized objectives? 2. What schedule adjustment would you need to make were you Sister A? 3. What schedule adjustment would you consider feasible, were you Sister B? 4. What — schedule adjustment would you suggest for a mother with several very young children? 5. Is one more likely to carry out an activity if she makes a written or verbal commitment than if she merely makes a mental resolve? Discuss. 6. Am I a doer of the word or a believer, only? The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part i For Third Meeting, April 1965 Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of self-righteousness and hypocrisy, and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity. Tue lesson for this month is closely related in purpose to the one for last month. Again we explore several significant selections to see how literature exposes evil and defends goodness. However, whereas last month we studied four short stories, this month we examine five poems; and whereas last month the focus was on selfishness in relation to unselfishness, this month the focus is on self-righteousness and hypocrisy in relation to genuine righteousness and sincerity. Obviously these are very broad subjects. Thousands of works, great and small, have touched upon them, and the five short selections we are examining are mere 69 JANUARY 1965 samples. But they need no apology, for they are strong and excellent poems. Seven times, as recorded in the twenty-third chapter of St. Matthew, Jesus denounced the selfrighteous piety of the scribes and Pharisees with these words: ''Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!'' Nothing in literature is more stinging than the repeated lash of these phrases. But literature, too, has been unsparing of the religious hypocrite who hides his evil underneath a cloak of self-righteous deceit. One of the most forthright in exposing self-righteous hypocrisy and in defending genuine righteousness and sincerity was the English poet Robert Browning (1812-1889),' whose "Johannes Agricola in Meditation" and '"Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister'' are unforgettable portraits of evil men disguised as righteous men. Space will permit us to print only one of these poems here. Johannes Agricola in Meditation There's heaven above, and night by night I look right through its gorgeous roof; No suns and moons though e'er so bright Avail to stop me; sp]endor-proof I keep the broods of stars aloof. For I intend to get to God, For 'tis to God I speed so fast, For in God's breast, my own abode, Those shoals of dazzling glory, passed, I lay my spirit down at last. I lie where I have always lain, God smiles as he has always smiled; Ere suns and moons could wax and wane, Ere stars were thundergirt, or piled ' 70 The heavens, God thought on me his child; Ordained a life for me, arrayed Its circumstances every one To the minutest; aye, God said This head this hand should rest upon Thus, ere he fashioned star or sun. And having thus created me, Thus rooted me, he bade me grow, Guiltless forever, like a tree That buds and blooms, nor seeks to know The law by which it prospers so. But sure that thought and word and deed All go to swell his love for me, Me, made because that love had need Of something irreversibly Pledged solely its content to be. Yes, yes, a tree which must ascend, No poison-gourd foredoomed to stoop! I have God's warrant, could I blend All hideous sins, as in a cup, To drink the mingled venoms up; Secure my nature will convert The draft to blossoming gladness fast; While sweet dews turn to the gourd's hurt, And bloat, and while they bloat it, blast, As from the first its lot was cast. For as I lie, smiled on, full-fed By unexhausted power to bless, I gaze below on hell's fierce bed, And those its waves of flame oppress, Swarming in ghastly wretchedness; Whose life on earth aspired to be One altar-smoke, so pure!— to win If not like God's love for me, At least to keep his anger in; And all their striving turned to sin. Priest, doctor, hermit, monk grown white With prayer, the brokenhearted nun, The martyr, the wan acolyte, The incense-swinging child— undone Before God fashioned star or sun! God, whom I praise; how could I praise, If such as I might understand, Make out and reckon on his ways, And bargain for his love, and stand, Paying a price, at his right hand? Comments on."Johannes Agricola in» Meditation." Johannes Agricola was a German reformer of' the 16th century who headed a religious sect which held that faith only is necessary to salvation; morality: and good works, according to this group, do not aid one towards salvation. God chooses to save some and damn others, and people can do nothing to alter the will of God. Those who are saved are saved, and those who are damned _ are damned, irrespective of how good or bad the people may live. As the leader of this sect, Johannes holds an extreme position. In his monstrous conceit he. Believes that God has planned every minutest detail of his life and predestined him to salvation, "suiltless forever." So self-righteous is Johannes that. He thinks all vices (all "hideous sins") become virtues when performed by him, and all virtues are a waste of time when performed by others: The poem should be read not merely as an individual portrait of Johannes Agricola but as a satire against. Pride and _ selfrighteousness wherever they may be found. Browning believed just as strongly as do members of The Church of Jesus Christ of LatterLESSON DEPARTMENT day Saints that faith without works is dead and that an individual has the responsibility through an exercise of will power to work out his own salvation. He. Also believed, as do Latter-day Saints, that through faith and righteousness we can: know God.» Johannes rationalized that we can no more know God than we can "bargain for his love." To understand Browning's own religious philosophy, all we need do is turn Johannes's beliefs upside down. As an ironic satire, this poem exposes the exact opposite of what Browning—and Latter-day Saint readers—recognize as the true principles of Christianity. Comment on "Soliloquy. Of. The Spanish Cloister."' Even better as poetry and as satire than. '"Johnnes Agricola" is. Browning's "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister." This brilliant short poem is as vivid a portrait of self-righteousness, hypocrisy, lust, hate, and just downright meanness as Browning or any other poet ever composed. It describes everything that Browning detested in religious attitude and surface ritualism and, by implication, suggests his admiration for sincerity, honesty, brotherly love; simplicity, and just plain goodness. Unfortunately, however, space does not permit including this poem and a discussion of it in this lesson. Therefore, it will need to be studied in the literature text, where it is included in full. Comments on Two Poems by Robert Burns. Greatest of the Scottish poets and, if one can judge by the frequency of refer- 71 JANUARY 1965 ences to him, possibly President David O. McKay's favorite poet is Robert Burns (1759-1796). Although his personal life was rather loose and undisciplined, Burns in his poetry was an idealist with strong faith in the goodness of God and the potential goodness of man. He triumphs as a great poet in two kinds of poems especially—first, beautiful lyrics of love and friendship; and second, delightful satires attractively mixing humor with stinging criticism. He also wrote some very good narrative poems, but he is at his best in songs and satires. He is also at his best in the Scottish dialect that was his native tongue. For fuller comments on Burns and his poems than space permits here, and for a full printing of the two poems discussed here, see the Relief Society literature text. The two poems selected for special attention in this lesson are "A Man's a Man for A' That" and "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous,' and both are particularly concerned with good and bad attitudes, especially religious attitudes. The shorter of the two is '""A-Man's a Man for A' That," printed almost in full below: Is there for honest poverty, That hangs his head, an' a' that? The coward salve, we pass him by— We dare be poor for a' that! For a' that, an' a' that, Our toils obscure, an' a' that, The rank is but the guinea's stamp; The man's the gowd' for a' that. What though on hamely fare we dine, Wear hoddin grey' an' a' that? 72 Gie fools their silks, and knaves their wine— A man's a man for a' that! For a' that, an' a' that, Their tinsel show, an' a' that, The honest man, tho' e'er sae poor, Is king o' men for a' that. Ye see yon birkie,* ca'd a lord, Wha struts, an' stares, an' a' that? Tho' hundreds worship at his word He's but a cuif* for a' that: For a' that, an' a' that, His ribband, star, an' a' that, The man o' independent mind, He looks an' laughs at a' that. Then let us pray that come it may, As come it will for a' that, That Sense and Worth, o'er a' the earth, Shall bear the gree® an' a' that; For a' that, an' a' that, It's comin yet for a' that, That man to man, the world o'er, Shall brithers be for a' that! This is a positive pcem. In it Burns proclaims the dignity of common man and_ denounces whatever pretenses or artificialities destroy his dignity. Honesty, independence of mind, the brotherhood of man—these are the things that matter. Costly clothes, social position, fancy titles—these are mere decorations that hide what is genuine. "The honest man, however so poor, is king of man"' is the central idea of this poem. "Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous" will need ' to be read in the literature text because it is too long to be printed here. All that we can here do is summarize the poem. It is a satire, humorous yet serious, addressed by Burns to those people who regard themselves as very good, very pious, very holy and who spend their time talking about their neighbor's faults and follies. I should like to speak, says Burns, in defense of all the poor mortals who often act unwisely and make mistakes. You look at them, he continues, and shudder at how weak and sinful they are compared with your strength and purity. But is the difference that great? Are you flawless—or just better at hiding? Also, you may now be grown up and beyond the temptations that "galloped" in your veins when you were young, but have you forgotten? Besides, maybe you're not any temptation. Therefore, look gently on men, and even more gently on women. Although they may do a little wrong, do not condemn them. Above all, consider not merely what they have done but why. God alone has the power to look into a human heart to judge actions and motives and regrets. He alone knows not only what one has done and why but what one has resisted doing and why. Man's responsibility is to forgive; only God, and his specially appointed representatives, have authority to judge. All of this is what "Address to the Unco Guid" says. But the poem is better than the paraphrase, as poems always are. Comment on "'Abou Ben Adhem." As a brief final selection focusing on the central subject of this lesson, we include Leigh Hunt's little poem "Abou Ben Adhem." Although not one of the great writers, Hunt (1784-1859) is an important second-level English pcet and critic of the Romantic Age. This famous short LESSON DEPARTMENT poem, stressing the importance of unselfish brotherly love, is simple in wording and openly clear in message: Abou Ben Adhem, may his tribe increase! Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace, And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom, An angel writing in a book of gold: — Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold, And to the presence in the room he said, "What writest thou?'—The vision raised its head, And with a look made of all sweet accord, Answered, "The names of those who love the Lord." "And is mine one?" said Abou. "Nay, not so," Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low, But cheerly still; and said, "I pray thee then, Write me as one that loves his fellow-men." The angel wrote, and vanished. The next night It came again with a great wakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blessed, And lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest. THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Identify as extensively and specifically as possible the various sins of attitude and behavior exposed by Browning and Burns in "Johannes Agricola in Mediation," 'Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister,' "A Man's a Man for A' That," and 'Address to the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous." 2. Then identify as extensively and specifically as possible the good quali- 73 JANUARY 1965 ties and attitudes recommended by Browning and Burns in these four poems. 3. How do satire and. Irony help in these poems to expose evil and advocate goodness? % 4. Near the end ofthe lesson a prose paragraph of "Address to 'the Unco Guid or the Rigidly Righteous" is given. Then the comment is made, "But the poem is better than the paraphrase, as poems always are." Why is a poem better than a paraphrase of it? What does the paraphrase miss? 5. Probably experienced readers of literature will generally feel that of the five poems covered by this lesson, the most brilliant and best is Browning's "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister." What qualities make this a better and more brilliant. Poem than the other four? LFor more extensive comments on Browning's life and writing, see Lesson Four in the October Relief Society. Magazine. And for even more extensive comments, see the literature text; which contains contrasting portraits by Browning of two thoroughly sincere and good men in "Rabbi Ben Ezra" and "A Grammarian's Funeral." *gold, coarse woolen cloth, *conceited fellow, "blackhead 5prize "A SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel-S. Ballif Lesson 20 — The Church Welfare Program For Fourth Meeting, April.1965 Objective: 'To increase our understanding of the meaning The Chuch Welfare Plan is the expression of a philosophy that is as old as the Church itself, and the Priesthood is the instrumentality through which its aims may be achieved, with auxiliary aid (John <A. Widtsoe, 74 and implications of brotherhood. Priesthood and Church Government, page 289). The welfare: plan is a permanent plan for the purpose of extending temporary assistance to the individual, so far as his temporal needs are con- cerned, but permanent benefits so far as his spiritual welfare is involved. That is all there is to it (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Addresses, page 26). PRACTICAL RELIGION In a previous lesson, we have attempted to establish the important idea that in God's teachings to man there is no separation between temporal and _ spiritual things. President Joseph F. Smith says, "It is the purpose of God in restoring the gospel and the holy Priesthood, not only to benefit mankind spiritually, but also to benefit them temporally" (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 edition, page 209). This doctrine develops the idea that our work, our play, our study, or our participation in the activity of the Church should be governed by the same set of values. The teachings go even farther and assume that each person who belongs to the Church is actively interested in the spiritual and economic welfare of each and every other member of the organization. It is important that one should be concerned about the conditions of his neighbors. Calamity may strike anyone of us at any time, but if we develop the idea of mutual aid, then there is an insurance against the day of misfortune. In President McKay's talk in a special welfare meeting held on April 5, 1949, he said, "Truly the man was right who said, 'The race of mankind would perish if they ceased to aid each other... We cannot exist without mutual help. All, therefore, that need aid have a right to ask it from their fellow mortals; no one who holds the power of granting can refuse it without guilt.' " LESSON DEPARTMENT COOPERATION ESSENTIAL TO ONENESS During the time of President Brigham Young's leadership, the Church won its survival by mutual aid and cooperation. President Young stated: I say that they who are opposed to co-operation are opposed to heaven, to their own welfare, to the welfare of their neighbours, to truth and to everything that is good. The least thought or act of an individual who is or can be called a Saint. That militates against oneness of feeling and action amongst the Saints is opposed to everything that is heavenly and good.... If we are not one, we are not the Lord's. We can not do his will, nor be his disciples unless we are one... (Journal of Discourses, 16:65). The Welfare Program provides the ideal vehicle for a practical expression of the above-stated philosophy. Every member of the Church can participate in the program either in production, preservation, or distribution of foods or materials. It is the fact that everyone can and should participate that makes the program so important. THE MEANING OF BROTHERHOOD People from every occupation and from every family in the Church can work together with a feeling that the Welfare Program belongs to them and the benefits are available for everyone who is in need. The person in need works side by side with the man in affluent circumstances. Both have a pride in the success of the project. The one in need can have the blessing of the work opportunity, while the other person feels a security and confidence in the continuance of 75 JANUARY 1965. A successful cooperative project. No one knows when calamity may strike or when he will need the cooperative effort of his quorum to help him solve his problem. Working in the Welfare Program, when physically able, removes any possibility of stigma that is sometimes attached to other systems of providing help to the needy. The man or woman who willingly works on the project can receive the blessings of his efforts in materials essential to his well-being. The person who works and does not need has the joy of knowing that his efforts have made it possible to relieve the suffering of his brother or sister. OPERATION OF THE WELFARE PROGRAM In the above discussion, stress has been placed on the attitude of the members toward the Welfare Program. After all, in Church work people are the main concern. In fact they, the people, constitute the Church, and the government of the Church is the Priesthood in action through worthy members of the Church. In order to get a clearer picture of the Welfare Program and its function, we will examine briefly two aspects of this important organization. First, we will summarize the means of production of welfare commodities. This involves all of the means: of producing the commodities needed to fill the welfare budget of the Church. Second, and of even more importance, we will examine the means of distribution of making the product available in the right place at the right time. Each aspect has required great 76 vision, careful planning, and the dedication of leaders and lay members alike, to make possible the realization of the objectives of the plan insofar as this has been achieved. It is true that production cannot be fully understood apart from distribution, but a quick look at the means of producing the tremendous welfare budget will give meaning to the method of making the materials available to the bishops to meet the needs of their people. 1. Production Every ward and stake has been advised and urged to secure means of producing in quantity the commodities their area can most naturally supply. They are encouraged to purchase farms, to produce hay and grain, to acquire cattle, to set up dairies, develop meat-producing projects, or factories for processing food, or making clothing. In fact, they are encouraged to develop all kinds of projects that will contribute to the budget requirements as recommended by the General Church Welfare Committee. The Church is set up into welfare regions. Each region is composed of a number of stakes. They are organized on the basis of geographical location and the commodities they are best prepared to produce. The wards and stakes are encouraged to develop projects that can best fit into the budget assignment of the region to which they belong. The productive power of the Welfare Program, in terms of farms, canneries, or industries, has made a remarkable growth in the twentyeight years since it was organized. 2. Distribution There are two important parts of this heading; the first, how much is needed to meet the demands of all the wards in the Church; and, second, who is going to distribute the commodities? The two parts must be discussed together to have proper meaning. The production of the welfare budget is, in reality, a miracle of cooperation. A budget is set up each year based on the actual usage of the previous year. Every bishop reports what he has used in assisting his members and on the basis of the past year's estimate, his need for the coming year. Budget making in the Welfare Program is a perpetual thing. While the bishop is using one budget, another one is being produced, and a third one is being estimated. The various regions of the Welfare Program produce as much of their own budget as possible, but, in their speciality, they produce a surplus which is available to the rest of the Church. After the commodities have been produced, who actually gets them into the hands of those in need? This service demonstrates a very real function of the Church organization. The Welfare Program does not require a new set of officers to fulfill its function, but it requires a careful organization of officers whom the Lord set up in the beginning. The heart of the care of the needy and the center of the distribution of commodities is in the hands of the bishop. He is the father of the ward and has a personal interest in every member. Support and assistance come LESSON DEPARTMENT from the Relief Society. The president of the Relief Society is a true social worker. Going into the homes of the needy, sick, and afflicted, under the direction of the bishop, after he has made a visit, she makes a realistic and practical study of the needs and the abilities of the family. This study becomes one basis for the help that the family will receive. The Priesthood in each ward is organized to assist in the welfare of the members. The ward welfare committee includes the ward Priesthood executive committee (consisting of the bishopric, the high priest group leader, the seventies president or group leader, the elders president or group leader, the general secretary of the Aaronic Priesthood over twenty-one, and the general secretary of the Aaronic Priesthood under twenty-one), the Relief Society presidency and a ward clerk. This committee meets and reports the conditions of the ward membership as to sickness, unemployment, or any other conditions that would impair the spiritual, temporal, or intellectual well-being of the members of the ward. This committee is to see to it that suffering in any family of the Church membership is alleviated. Through the bishop's order on the storehouse (usually one warehouse in each welfare region), the physical needs of the worthy members can be met. The bishop's storehouse has the commodities prepared by the many welfare projects throughout the Church and stored in this storehouse according to the budget needs of the bishops in the region. Today, the functioning of the Priesthood through home teachers could meet the needs of mem- 77 JANUARY 1965 bers, including their spiritual, temporal, and intellectual welfare. IN SUMMARY The Welfare Program, though very briefly reviewed above, is an excellent example of the functioning of religious idealism. Much is said about being our brother's keeper, unselfishness, and the Golden Rule, but in the Welfare Program, we have a practical application of true brotherhood. This is expressed in the unified approach to resolving the problems of poverty, both spiritual and material, among Church members. As long as the members have a desire to be self-supporting and are willing to do their best, then the Welfare Program provides the way for the quorum members to help their brothers without embarrassing them. Every project developed by wards or stakes presents a potential occupational opportunity for a member who is without employment. The unemployed person can join with others in a united effort to make the project successful. The needy person can spend as much time as he needs on a welfare project in order to care for his family. His quorum brethren work with him to establish him on a self-supporting basis. At the same time, the quorum members are constantly searching for permanent employment for their brother in an industry that will provide him with a greater opportunity to improve his economic situation. By the united effort of all Church members in support of the welfare projects, work opportunities are made available, and the needs of a person can be met 78 in the time-honored method of personal effort. Perhaps it should be emphasized here, at the conclusion of this lesson, that all Melchizedek Priesthood members will be encouraged to participate in activities pertaining to all phases of the Priesthood correlation program, including home teaching, genealogy, missionary, and welfare werk. The quorums or groups will engage in all these activities as directed by their respective Priesthood committees of the high council and in concurrence and cooperation with the ward bishopric and the ward council. The members of each quorum will be responsible and report directly to their group leaders in all phases of Priesthood work. However, the leadership of these Priesthood programs will be given to various groups. Thus, the leadership of the home teaching program rests with the bishopric working through and with the various Priesthood quorum and group leaders. The leadership for the genealogy program will be given to the high priests group, and the group leader will serve as the ward council adviser on genealogy. Similarly, leadership for missionary activities will be given to the seventies quorum or group in the ward, and the seventies leader in the ward will serve as the ward council adviser on missionary work. Under the direction of the bishopric, the elders quorum will be given the leadership for the Welfare Program, and the elders president or sroup leader will serve as the ward council adviser on welfare. However, the bishop will serve as chairman of the ward welfare committee and also serve as chairman of the ward council. The more closely we work together in the Church, the more we can appreciate the qualities of. Each other. If our effort is an effort of unselfish service to our fellow men, love and. Understanding are our reward. The total result is the unity, the oneness, that the Savior said we must have if we are his. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What part or parts of the Church organization is or are responsible for the care of the poor? 2. In-what kind of a welfare project have you participated? To an Eight-Year-Old Dorothy J. Roberts isn't it ridiculous, Your being so far away — A river and a chain of hills To part me from your play? Jt is unbelievable, A lake, a field of grain, A desert and a row of elms Can cause a year of pain. Isn't it incongruous, With jets to shrink the hours That we are separated by A line of gold sunflowers, A duty and a dollar and A cloud that may bring snow — When | long to see you And to hold you, so! LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. What special responsibility for the temporal welfare of their mem- 'bers do Priesthood quorums have? 4. What important functions does the Relief Society perform in the care of the needy? 5. What is meant by the general welfare budget of the Church? 6. How does the Church previde an opportunity for work to the unemployed member? REFERENCES Welfare Plan, Handbook of Instruction Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook Widtsoe, John A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapters, XXIV, XXVI. Addresses: Delivered at the special welfare meeting held in the Salt Lake Fabernacle, April 5, 1949. 'HAWAIIAN TOURS February-May-July 14-days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES January For those who wish, there will be time to go to the temples. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27 day, and 29 day tour arranged. Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 157 N. State Street GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH TOUR TO GREAT BRITAIN RESEARCHERS-on-the-SPOT. E1e2r0° m. Hatt, secretory Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 For details see the Magazine for December 1964, page 957. Phone 359-1679 79 Liithday Congralleliins One Hundred One Mrs. Mary Bohne Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Ann Eliza Allen Coombs Centerville, Utah a Ninety-nine - Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Taylor McEntire Rexburg, Idaho Ninety-eight Mrs. Mary Hegsted Rawson Whittier, California Mrs. Martha Platt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Cox Moffitt Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Ellen Johannah Larson Smith Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Sina C. H. Mortensen Mesa, Arizona Ninety-six Miss Grace Ella Minot St. Petersburg, Florida Ninety-five Mrs. Livinia Anderson Frankcom Bountiful, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Ella Belle Lawson Kitto Little Rock, Arkansas Ninety-three Mrs. Mary Amy Newbold Crombie Denver, Colorado Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden Price, Utah Mrs. Frances Lathrop Lebo Bakersfield, California Miss Agnes. Wailes Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Loretta Tucker Johnson Berkeley, California Ninety-two Mrs. Eliza Jane Rideout Dyson Hooper, Utah 80 Mrs. Dorteah Larson Peterson Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Rose Varney American Fork, Utah Miss Marian Marie Anderson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Reynolds Yucaipa, California Mrs. Emily F. Smith Preston, Idaho Mrs. Della M. Chadwick Preston, Idaho Miss Ruth Lewis Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alma Gertrude Watson McGregor Provo, Utah Mrs. Emma Ovard Chase Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Maria Elizabeth Christensen Brothers Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Zerviah S. Greene Smith Logan, Utah Mrs. Lucy Cornford Mount Toronto, Ontario, Canada Ninety Mrs. Fanny Thompson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martine Larsen Schenk Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Jucy Baird Jacob Winterton Charleston, Utah Mrs. Carola Schlatter Wurzbach Fullerton, California Miss Anna Rasmusson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susan Parker Bues Hooper, Utah Mrs. Artimesia Snow Seegmiller Stewart Les Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Josephine Hansen Halliday Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Charlotte Knapp Moroni, Utah GOLD MEDALLION A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. O Buy now from your dealer s EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL A certified teacher instructs on each trip and LDS standards are strictly adhered to. A. New York World's Fair. B. Hill Cumorah Pageant C. Mexico Book of Mormon Lands D. Quaint Canadian Tours E. Hawaiian Adventures F. Northwest U. S. And Canada G. Wilderness Trips H. River Trip Fun I. L. D. S. Temple Tours ADULT TOURS. These tours include transportation, hotels, historical data, insurance, but no food. YOUTH TOURS. These tours include transportation, most food and some hotels but mostly the youth will camp out in different national and state parks. Our Mottos: FAITH & FELLOWSHIP Supt. John C. Josephson TRAVEL INSTITUTE 278 East 9th South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Phones: 487-7933 or 328-4907 HAWAIIAN TOUR February MEXICO March LET'S GO TO EUROPE IN 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in @ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press fer the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2..... 55 Zone 6...........90 a 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4. Stdtiwtiwtiws 65 Zone 8..........1.20 Zone 5 80 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Eure EMpire 4-2581, 33 Richards St., S. L. C., Utah, a DESERET Ews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 fc Ce ve WORD of WISDOM aides Mis Ay, mek 7 ed 1 A v 15 i 7 phd % Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah MAKE A RESOLUTION TO READ THESE BOOKS 1. OUR WORD OF WISDOM by David D. Geddes This new Deseret Book publication is inspiration from cover to cover. Our Word of Wisdom has special meaning for Latter-day Saints and covers the LDS health code from the negative aspects of tobacco and cancer to the positive aspects of wholesome grains and "meats in season." Many new and interesting observations are made. $2.95 2. THE ART OF TEACHING CHILDREN by Darl V. Hoole The colorful writer of Art of Homemaking introduces her second volume of experience-tested advice and guidance. The Art of Teaching Children is valuable reading for anyone connected with children but especially parents. Every mother and every father should make a New Year's resolution to read this book. $3.95 3. THE ART OF TEACHING CHILDREN KIT $2.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 328-8191 Enclosed please find $........... Giltye I have an account, please oe. 4For items numbered 1 2. 3. — ttState......;: Zip... /a4i4 Residents of Utah, please include 34% sales tax. Postage postpaid SUCRE TTT SSSRESSSEHA RSCTA SSSCSSSARESRESSR TSH CH SSR EE ty 08 E@s @2 Rei Both Mother and! Have had great pleasure in reading the Magazines. | love the cover of the October issue (Autumn in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah, by L. Paul Roberts). It shows my kind of country and reminds me greatly of North Wales. Mother was delighted upon seeing her ''Trifle'' recipe (page 768), and | loved the poem ''Beauty'' (by Rowena Jensen Bills). —Miss Mavis Owen Tenby, Pemrokeshire Wales Our ward has used the recipes for pumpkin cake and pumpkin cookies (October 1964), and we have enjoyed them very much. Also, | especially enjoyed the lovely poem by Eva Willes Wangsgaard ''Autumn Color After the Rains."" We had our first autumn rain last night, and | thought the poem just fit the way everything looked this morning. Also, thanks for the Scotch recipes in the October issue. My family really enjoyed the Stroganoff recipe in the March 1963 Magazine. —Lucile M. Weenig Provo, Utah | commend the Magazine highly for its excellence. It is beautiful, useful, and uplifting always. | have loved it and used it since I was a girl and shared my mother's copies. My own daughter enjoys mine now. | can hand it to her without having yet opened it, and never have to worry about what she will find within its covers. —Bernice S. Skinner Holbrook, Arizona | can't begin to tell you how much | enjoy the Magazine and look forward to receiving it each month. Many times the stories and articles have helped me with their messages. —Joan P. Sprague Miami, Florida Som' bear antl | am a Latter-day Saint foreign student studying here under the United States Government East-West Student Exchange Program. When | read the article 'So Grateful That You Taught Me" (by Edith S. Elliott), in the October Magazine, my heart filled with gratitude for the uplifting and wonderful message of the article. | felt that it had special application to me. -——Miss Aiona Fakalata Honolulu, Hawaii (Student from the Tonga Islands) In reference to the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and especially for the article on making parchment stationery (by Peggy Tangren), | want to say "'Thanks so much.' Today, | took a walk along an often-traveled route where the scenery is weeds, vines, and a few wild flowers. When! Stooped to pick one particularly beautiful bloom,! Decided to see if | could start my collection of flowers and grasses to press for stationery. With my eyes thus opened, | suddenly beheld the beauty | never could have seen otherwise. My heart is overflowing as | thank you for helping me to see the beauty that is always there. —Joyce L. Canham Manassas, Virginia | wish to express my gratitude for the support my family receives from The Relief Society Magazine. It has helped to build faith within each family member, five girls and a boy and the father and mother. It has also enriched their literary world. | sent a subscription to my daughter at the Brigham Young University. They have a very spiritual Relief Society organization in her ward there. She is a visiting teacher. -——Beth Milner Raines Eugene, Oregon 81 Relief Society Volume 52 February 1965 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 84 Oakland Temple Dedicated 86 The Guidance of the Holy Spirit Marion G. Romney 92 Mother — Do You Know...? Robert J. Matthews Fiction 94 Among Strangers Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke 106 Valentine's Day Helen H. Trutton 110 Madame Letitia Dorothy Clapp Robinson 120 Turn of the Wheel—Chapter 5 Mable Harmer General Features 81 From Near and Far 101 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 102 Editorial: The Measure of Greatness Marianne C. Sharp 104 In Memoriam: Vilate Romney Ivins 105 Notes to the Field: Index for 1964 Relief Society Magazine Available 105 Heart Fund Dollars — A Hope for Better Life 127 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 160 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 115 Birthday Pie Ivy Houtz Woolley 116 Recipes From Dallas Stake Ada W. Schaelling 117 Lace Baskets for Decorating a Banquet Table Mildred McKenzie 119 Ireva Watkins — Hobbies Help to Make Her Happy 159 Hurry Wilma Boyle Bunker Lessons for May 134 Theology — The Prophecy on Wars Roy W. Doxey 140 Visiting Teacher Message — "I, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What I Say..." Christine H. Robinson 142 Work Meeting — Family Relationships Alberta H. Christensen 146 Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part IV Robert K. Thomas 151 Social Science — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men Ariel S. Ballif Poetry 83 The Oakland Temple — Frontispiece Margery S. Stewart A Living Faith, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 104; Home, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 115; Cleansing Rite, by Ida Elaine James, 139; On Growing Old, by Grace Barker Wilson, 141; FrostEtched, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 150; Tomorrow Today, by Ruth H. Chadwick, 156; Gourmet Baby, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 156; Gifts for Everyday, by Catherine B. Bowles, 156; Prayer of a Visiting Teacher, by Lucile R. Smith, 157; Valentine for Stephanie, by Ethel Jacobson, 157; Grandson, by Christie Lund Coles, 157; Death of City Trees, by Lael W. Hill, 159; Mountain Children, by Maude Rubin, 160. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main tober 8, 1917, 'authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Margery S. Stewart Cry across the sea, Dazzle the darkness With your holy promise, Oh, white walls of wisdom, Golden parapets of prophecy Fulfilled. Let the ships be silent, Proud or searching, Rich or hungry, Let them read what is Written here Burning in the blue air. Let them on the confused Islands meditate The bright assurance of These soaring towers. Temple of dreams... Temple of promise.. Pilgrims of eternity, Pilgrims of earth, Meet here and mingle. There is only love here There is only the tender, Light and stillness Of his Being. Shine forever, oh, temple, Stone, vision, mortar, Dream, concrete, devotion, Obedience, sacrifice, and pillar, For who is wise enough To separate dream from stone Or veil from vision. The Cover: Lake Atitlan, Guatemala, Transparency by Nina B. Brewer Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: The Way of Trees, Owens Valley, California Photograph by Josef Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: ©. Mary Scopes The Oakland Temple, at Oakland, California, was dedicated on November 17, 18, and 19, 1964. Each day two sessions were held and at each session the Dedicatory Prayer of President McKay was offered. The majestic temple stands on Temple Hill overlooking the vast blue waters of the Pacific. The fifteenth temple built by the Latterday Saints commands a view of the Golden Gate, both of the great bridges, and the ships of many nations passing in and out of the harbor. The temple has been called "A House for Eternity," and the symbolic purposes of its erection have been expressed as a promise of eternal progression. ©@akland Cemple Hedicated The dedication of the Oakland Temple brings to a total of five the temples which have been started and completed during the thirteen years that President David O. McKay has been President of the Church. President David O. McKay, at ninety-one, arose to "supreme spiritual heights" during the dedication ceremonies as he spoke of the sacred mission of the Church in these latter-days, and the privileges and responsibilities of those who enter the temples of the Lord. In the dedicatory prayer, President McKay expressed gratitude for the ancient and restored gospel and the unlimited possibilities offered for eternal growth and development. An excerpt follows: We are grateful that Thou didst send Thy Beloved Son into the world to reveal unto humanity Thine existence, and to establish on earth the way that men should go in order to come back into Thy presence as Thy sons and daughters. We are grateful... That Thou didst restore the Gospel in this Dispensation by Thine own appearance, and the appearance of Thy Beloved Son to the Prophet Joseph Smith.... We are thankful for the message which he gave to the whole world that Thou dost live; that Thou dost hear and answer prayer; that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world, and that through Him death has been conquered and the soul of man set free from death.... Now, O God, our Heavenly Eternal Father, the faithful membership of Thy Church through love for Thee and Thy children, have erected to Thee by tithes and offerings this Holy House in which shall be performed ordinances and ceremonies essential to the happiness, salvation, and exaltation of Thy children living in mortality and in the Spirit World. Accept of our offering, hallow it by Thy Holy Spirit, and protect and guard it by Thy Power. With this prayer, we dedicate our lives to the establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth for the peace of the world and to Thy Glory forever, in the name of Thy Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, Amen. 85 Elder Marion G. Romney of The Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964) I am honored, sisters, in being in your presence. As a matter of fact, I am always subdued in your presence. I think we could find no more able, faithful, lovely congregation in the world. The only thing which keeps me from feeling inferior in your presence is that I was elevated to your station by marrying one of you. I have the testimony of a wonderful patriarch for that. Before my wife met me, she was promised as a young girl that she would meet and win and keep the love of a man who was her equal. I have a two-pointed theme today, 'Receive the truth, and take the Holy Spirit for your guide."" As Jesus stood with his disciples on the Mount of Olives, they asked him what would be the sign of his second coming. — You know, of course, that the Lord gave the Prophet Joseph Smith a brief statement of what he told his disciples on that occasion. You will find it in the 45th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. — In response to their inquiry, the Savior told them of the wars which would be in the earth at the time of his second coming and which would precede it; of men's hearts failing them. He told them about earthquakes and other desolations; about the restoration of the gospel and its rejection; about his appearance on the Mount of Olives; the redemption of the heathen; and the binding of Satan. Then he concluded: At that day, when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins. For they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived... Shall abide the day (D&C 45:56-57). Nephi, in his record of his father's vision of the tree of life, quotes Lehi as saying:... Il beheld a rod of iron.... And I also beheld a straight and narrow path, which came along by the rod of iron, even to the tree by which I stood; and it also led... Unto a large and spacious field, as if it had been a world. And I saw numberless concourses of people, many of whom were pressing forward, that they might obtain the path which led unto the tree by which I stood.... And it came to pass that there arose a mist of darkness; yea, even an exceeding great mist of darkness, insomuch that they who had commenced in the path did lose their way...... Many were drowned... And many were lost... Wandering in strange roads (1 Nephi 8:19-21, 23, 32). This vivid 2,600-year-old word picture of people wandering in strange roads, groping for the straight and narrow path which leads to the tree of life, is symbolic of the world in which we live. We are now at sea in a mist of darkness for the very same reason as were our counterparts in Lehi's vision — namely, because we refuse, as did they, to take advantage of the available means of escape. The bewildered people of Lehi's dream did not need to be lost. Extending from the "large and spacious field," in which they wandered, was a straight and narrow path paralleled by an iron rod, leading to the tree of life. The wanderers were in trouble because they would not grasp the iron rod. That iron rod was inTHE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT terpreted, as you know, by Nephi to be the word of God. They would not grasp the iron rod and follow the path to the tree of life. In the language of our text, they refused to receive the truth and take the Holy Spirit for their guide. The same thing is true of us modern wanderers. There is no necessity for our bewilderment. The same ample means of escape which were available to them of Lehi's vision, are available to us. The Lord, knowing the calamities which would come upon us, restored the truth — the iron rod of Lehi's vision — and gave us ' the gift of the Holy Ghost, to keep us in the straight path of Lehi's dream. We are today blessed with the. Word of God in rich abundance. In the Old Testament we have what Lehi's people had in the Brass Plates. In addition, we have the New Testament, The Book of Mormon, the Pearl of Great Price, and the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. We also have the teachings of the modern prophets, from the Prophet Joseph Smith to President McKay. The truth in these scriptures would, if followed, lead us into the way of life. Until the peoples of the earth accept the word of God as taught in these, our standard works, they shall never find their way out of the wilderness. Although, worldwide, the prospects are not very bright, we Latter-day Saints need not be dismayed. Knowing the gospel is true and that the promises of the Lord are certain, it is for us to grasp firmly the iron rod, and diligently press on to victory. And we must hold to 87 FEBRUARY 1965 it; for although the amplification of the truth contained in the Bible by our modern scriptures greatly adds to our store of the word of God, his word will not save us any more than it saved the wanderers of Lehi's vision unless we make use of it. The fact that we have it is not enough. I remember a young lady keeping company with a nonmember of the Church. As their courtship developed, she worried because he was a nonmember. Hoping to do something about it, so she told my wife, she gave him a copy of The Book of Mormon. But when she was asked if she had read it, she said No. Needless to say, he didn't read it either. So now they have both gone his way. When I think of women, I think of mothers; and when I think of mothers, I think of homes and children. When I think of Relief Society sisters, I think of Latter-day Saint mothers in Latter-day Saint homes surrounded by their children. The contemplation of this sacred sanctuary brings to mind the Lord's instructions for us to bring up our "children in light and truth" (D&C 93:40). This phrase, "light and truth," is very interesting and most significant. Time permitting, we could profitably consider it at length. But for our purposes here, we have but time to say that truth embraces knowledge. As you know, the Prophet defined it — "knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come..." (D&C 93:24). These are the great truths which the gospel teaches. Light connotes forsaking of evil. Therefore, to 88 bring up children in "light and truth," we must teach them the word of God and inspire them to forsake evil. I need not elaborate on the theme that children become about what their mothers make them. I spent' my full allotted time a year ago on that subject. You and I, however, and the whole world know that when children reach maturity they reflect in their lives about what their mothers taught them. This is illustrated in the tribute paid to their mothers by the 2,000 young men referred to in The Book of Mormon as the Sons of Helaman. At a time when they were faced with overwhelming odds, Helaman asked them if they would go against the enemy to battle. Although they were very young, they answered,... Behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth; we would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the army of Antipus. Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them. And they rehearsed... The words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it (Alma 56: 46-48). Without a knowledge of the word of God, these noble mothers never could have built into their sons such an abiding conviction that "if they did not doubt, God would deliver them'; and neither could they have inspired in their sons an unshakeable faith that their "mothers knew" what they were talking about. My beloved sisters, for the salvation of yourselves, your children, and your children's children, I urge you to get a knowledge of the principles of the gospel and impart the knowledge to your children in your home. It is a mistake to depend solely upon. The Church organizations to give them this knowledge. Yours is the primary and the final responsibility to bring up your children in "light and truth." There is no better place to find this knowledge than in the standard works of the Church. Read them and do as the Lord says, "Let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your mind." Study the revelations of the Doctrine and Covenants: The Lord said of them: Search these commandments, for - they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled: What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled.. (D&C 1:37-38). Read The Book of Mormon. Of that book the Prophet said, "I told the brethren that The Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and. The keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book" (DHC IV, page 461). Become familiar with it. Let the beauty and spirit of its plain and simple gospel teachings rest upon your souls. Draw near to the Lord, as the Prophet said, by abiding by its precepts. THE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT Read the New Testament. Become more familiar with the teachings of Jesus and the apostles. Begin with your children while they are exclusively under your care and continue as long as you have any influence upon them to impress upon their minds and precious souls the grandeur of the concepts of the gospel. Get them to understand and appreciate that they are individually, in very deed, the children of God; members of his eternal family; that they came from him; that they have the potential to return to his presence and be like him; that earth life is but a proving ground for higher spheres; that "men are, that they might have joy" (not the pleasures of this world); and that "wickedness never was happiness." Get these truths imbedded in your minds. If you will do that, you will have an anchor that will carry you over the roughest passages in your lives. I remember on one occasion riding with President Stephen L Richards to a conference in Idaho in an automobile. As we drove along, we were considering means to encourage the people more effectively to live the gospel. He expressed his convictions that people would be more diligent in living the gospel if they could but get the true concept of its principles in their minds and appreciate their implications. I have often thought about this statement, and I believe it is true. I am further persuaded that Lattér-day Saint parents can, if they will, help their children to learn and appreciate these principles. This will require parents them- 89 FEBRUARY 1965 selves to become more familiar with the word of God. I counsel you to study and teach your children from the standard works of the Church. The Church, through its Correlation Program, will give you some specific help in this endeavor during the coming year. We have already pointed out that, in addition to restoring the truths of the gospel, the Lord has given us, again in this dispensation, the gift of the Holy Ghost to keep us in the straight and narrow path. This is the "Holy Spirit" of our text. My final counsel to you this morning is to learn to recognize and follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Without such guidance, even a knowledge of the word of God is unfruitful. You will remember Paul's statement to the Corinthians that "... The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life' (II Corinthians 3:6), and how the Lord said, "... And if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach" (D&C 42:14). In Nephi's record between the account of his father's vision of the tree of life and the revealed interpretation which came to him of that vision, he said: And it came to pass after I, Nephi, having heard all the words of my father, concerning the things which he saw in a vision, and also the things which he spake by the power of the Holy Ghost... I, Nephi, was desirous also that I might see, and hear, and know of these things, by the power of the Holy Ghost [he wanted the knowledge himself, by the power of the Holy Ghost] which [he said] is the gift of God unto all those who diligently seek him.... For he that diligently seeketh shall find; and the mysteries of God shall bt] be unfolded unto them by the power of the Holy Ghost, as well in these times as in times of old, and as well in times of old as in times to come; wherefore, the course of the Lord is one eternal round (I Nephi 10:17, 19). Ji Moroni, after promising the honest readers of The Book of Mormon that if they "... Would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ... With a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ;' he would manifest the truth of it unto them, "by the power of the Holy Ghost," added this significant statement: "And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things" (Moroni 10:4-5). The Prophet Joseph seems to have felt that the gift of the Holy Ghost was the most distinguishing characteristic of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. In 1839, he, with Elias Higbee, went to Washington, D. C. To seek redress from the Government for the wrongs suffered by the saints in Missouri. Writing back to Nauvoo, they said: In our interview with the President [he is talking about Van Buren, the President of the United States], he interrogated us wherein we differed in our religion from the other religions of the day. Brother Joseph said we differed in mode of baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands. We considered that all other considerations were contained in the gift of the Holy Ghost... (DHC IV, page 42). Now I have cited these several scriptures at some length to emphasize the availability, the reality, and the practicability and the importance of the gift of the Holy Ghost. Each of us was directed to receive that gift when we were confirmed members of the Church. Properly cultivated and developed, this gift is of inestimable value. The Holy Ghost is a revelator. «.. He will guide you into all truth..." (John 16:13). He will bring all things to our remembrance and show us things to 'come. He will enlighten our minds, quicken our understandings, and increase our intelligence. I can think of no aid to parents in the training of children equal to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Among his gifts are faith, discernment, knowledge, judgment, and wisdom. The fruit of the Holy Spirit includes virtue, diligence, humility, hope, patience, kindness, charity, love, composure, peace, godliness, and joy. As we contemplate the virtue of these gifts and fruits, let me, by the way of caution, emphasize the fact that there is nothing spectacular, magical, or fanatical about the working of these gifts. Under their influence one behaves perfectly normally. They do not excite. They calm and comfort. Their influence is as natural and refreshing as a gentle breeze. "The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof,' said Jesus to Nicodemus, "but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit" (John 3:8). The following lines of Parley P. Pratt suggest to my mind at least what I'm trying to convey 'THE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT to you concerning the nature and influence of the Holy Spirit. As the dew from heaven distilling Gently on the grass descends And revives it.... But I suppose there is no point in my trying to explain further the influence of that Spirit. Only you who have had your souls enveloped by the influence of the Holy Spirit can realize the joy and peace of conscience it affords. Now, how is one to come by these precious gifts and fruits? The Lord has said, "'the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith..."" (D&C 42:14). Seek the guidance of the Holy Spirit, sisters. Seek it by faith and by prayer, by study, and by righteous living. Learn what the scriptures say about it, including, particularly, the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. -Develop a desire for it. Live worthy of it and cultivate its companionship. Take it for your guide. If you do so, your rewards will be eternal; for when the Savior comes in his glory and the parable of the ten virgins is fulfilled,. They that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived... Shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver (D&C 45:57-59). That we may all, with our children, abide that great day, I humbly pray. 91 Mother-Do You Know? Robert J. Matthews, Editor Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department of Education That the Church has a week-day religious, cultural, and social offering for your sons and daughters while they are in high school and also when they go to college? That this program now functions in practically all of the fifty States and in five foreign countries, with a total enrollment of over 111,000 students? Next year it will be even more widespread. That wonderful opportunities will come to your sons and daughters when they enroll in the program? They will have specialized religious instruction and constant opportunity to mingle, make friendships, and work in a variety of activities with other young Latter-day Saints. That Seminaries and Institutes of Religion are under the direction of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve? All instructors are members of the Church and are selected because of their knowledge of the gospel, ability to teach, desire to work with young people, and general faithfulness. That a Latter-day Saint Seminary is organized for spiritual guidance and instruction of young people of high school age? Students participate in scripture and Church history studies, singing, praying, giving talks and reports, leadership training, plus occasional parties and outings. That Latter-day Saint Institutes of Religion are organized near college and university campuses to give college students a spiritual, social, and cultural setting with a Latter-day Saint flavor? They are not a repetition of Seminary, but advanced courses are offered in scripture, Church history, leadership training, and other activities particularly suited to the college level. Deseret Clubs and Lambda Delta groups enrich the social and cultural experiences of Institute students. That there is no tuition charge for Seminary or Institute — only a small activity and book fee? Graduation diplomas and special certificates are granted to those who complete the prescribed courses. That there need be no loss of scholastic achievement because of religious activity? Seminary and Institute students often become the academic and social leaders in high school and college classes. That attendance at Seminary and Institute encourages increased Church activity, trains young people for leadership, and builds testimonies of the gospel? That a larger percentage of young people who attended Seminary, Institute, and Church Schools go on missions and marry in the temple than do they who do not attend these classes? The percentage increases in proportion to the number of classes taken. 92 That it aids missionary work? Mission Presidents say they find new missionaries with Seminary and Institute training are able to handle missionary work sooner than those who have not had this experience. That the students appreciate these classes? Many Seminary and Institute students are saying: Seminary has helped me to be a better leader in school, as well as contributing to my spiritual growth. Seminary is the start of my day — it just doesn't seem right without it. I have made many new friends in Seminary who live and believe as I do. I have a testimony of the truthfulness of this gospel, and I can accredit it to the Seminary and Institute program. In Seminary and Institute I can find an answer to my questions and a thirst for more gospel knowledge. Seminary and Institute have helped me to live a better life and to set a higher standard of living. Seminary and Institute are programs for which every youth in the Church should be thankful. That members of your family can receive these beneficial results by enrolling in a Seminary or Institute of Religion? That now is the time to talk encouragingly in the family circle - about these things, even to those younger than high school and college age, so that they will want to enroll when the time comes? You will not want any members of your family to miss this program of the Church. The home teachers, bishops, Seminary or Institute instructors can give you additional information about enrollment. 93 ey Among Strangers Lael J. Littke Second Prize-winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest WeariLy Janet leaned her head against the window of the train and watched the scenery glide by in the moonlight. The children had finally all gone to sleep on their makeshift beds, but she felt too tired and nervous to sleep. She wished she had someone to talk to, someone to whom she could recount the events of the day. But even if some of the other passengers were still awake, to whom would she talk? To the large lady in the seat ahead of Cheryl and Danny, who had changed into a bright red muumuu for the night? To the almost toothless elderly man in the seat behind her and Susan, who wore a battered cowboy hat and scuffed boots and who now filled the dimly lit coach with his exuberant snores? To the girl in the black sweater and pleated skirt two seats behind? Or to any of the people on the long 94 coach? No, there was no one here to whom she cared to talk. These people were strangers and their strangeness was a formidable barrier. They were different, they didn't believe as she did, they didn't live and speak and do as she did. During the day some of them had stopped to admire Susan, but Janet had not encouraged them to linger and chat. If only her mother were here, Janet would laugh with her over the mental picture she had had before the trip started, of herself and the children sitting quietly and sedately watching the scenery all the way to New York. Well, the children evidently had not shared that picture, and they refused to be either quiet or sedate. Five-year-old Cheryl complained of boredom and traipsed after endless drinks from the tiny spout which gave forth icy water. Danny rocketed around the coach all day despite her efforts to control him. She supposed the other people were annoyed by the small boy who persisted in asking what they had in their suitcases and if they had a dog at home, but he was impossible to repress. Eightmonth-old Susan, usually a contented cherub, fussed when she wasn't allowed to crawl on the floor. Janet sighed. Where now was the spirit of adventure which had sustained her that morning? Where was the confidence that she, alone, could shepherd her little family all the way across the country to join Greg in New York city? Could this tired young woman be the same person who just fourteen hours earlier had bustled happily about the train station saying goodbye to friends and relatives, assuring her worried mother that, of course, she and the children would be all right? What if she had never been more than 300 miles away from her home town, she had asked. One had to get out and discover the cold, cruel world sometime. Her father had laughed and called her Admiral Byrd. WANET grinned wryly at her reflection in the window. Admiral Byrd, indeed. They had been traveling just one day, and she was already sorry she had ever started on this expedition. Tomorrow there would be a change of trains, then another long day and night before they reached Greg. Fervently she wished she had stretched their limited budget to buy airplane tickets. She wished they had all gone with Greg two months before, even though they didn't know for sure then that he would receive the coveted scholarship for two years of study at the large eastern uni- 95 FEBRUARY 1965 versity. Finally, Janet just simply wished they were all safe and secure back in the little home town where she and Greg had lived all their lives. Let the more adventurous souls explore the cold world. She preferred to live in the warm circle of relatives and friends at home. Her last waking thought was of being surrounded by strangers for the next two years. She hadn't been asleep very long when she felt someone shaking her shoulder. "Mama," she heard Chery] say. "Ves, dear. What is it?" "It's Danny. He's wiggling around and I can't sleep. He says he's too hot." Too hot in the cool, air-conditioned coach? Janet jumped from her seat and crossed the aisle. Danny lay sprawled across his and Cheryl's seats, whimpering softly. "Cheryl," she said, "'you sleep there beside Susan. [ll stay by Danny." She gathered the husky threeyear-old into her arms. "Danny," she whispered, ''Mama's here. What's the matter?" Danny snuggled against her, but he continued to whimper. She felt his forehead and was alarmed at how hot it was. Running her hands over his body, she found he was burning all over. Danny was sick. Now what would she do? If she were home she could call her mother, or Greg's mother. And wonderful Dr. Evans would hurry over as soon as he could to fix a discerning eye on Danny and prescribe something which would have him up playing again in no time. 96 But here she was, alone among strangers, with no comforting mother. Danny moaned and shifted restlessly in her arms. Janet hugged him close. Why did he have to be sick, friendly little Danny who had been so excited about his first train ride? Before they were ten miles from home he had checked the view from every window and told the occupants of the seats about Tootsie, the turtle who lived under Grandpa's house. There hadn't been any other small boys on the coach until sometime in the late afternoon when a large five-year-old materialized from somewhere, presumably from another coach. He and Danny had eyed each other warily; then the new boy came to hang over the back of Janet's seat, noisily crunching a crisp carrot while he watched her feed Susan a jar of prunes. "That looks icky," the boy had stated. "She likes it,"' defended Danny from his seat across the aisle. The boy gazed contemplatively at Danny. "This your Ma?" he asked, flicking a finger at Janet. "That's my MOTH-er," Danny corrected. Janet was proud of him. The boy took another bite. Of carrot. 'Where's your Dad?" he asked. "My Daddy left us," replied Danny, his clear voice carrying all over the coach. Janet's pride withered under a blast of embarrassment. "He didn't axactly LEAVE us," she hastened to explain to the large woman who looked back with interest. 'He just went to New York and we're going to him now." Somehow that didn't sound right, either. "Left you, did he?" said the old man in the cowboy hat and boots. "No, no," Janet said, her cheeks flushing.' ""You don't understand. He went east to study." "Hah?" said the old man, cupping his hand to his ear. "I don't hear so well." Janet twisted around to explain, but just then the visitor dropped his carrot, and there was a grand scramble as the boys looked for it. By the time they found it, Susan was fussing about something, and Janet decided the time for explaining the misunderstanding had passed. She huddled down in her seat, trying to ignore everyone. She fancied they whispered about her — the lady whose husband left her. Well, she didn't care. They were only strangers. The other boy gave Danny a bite of his now-grimy carrot, and they became fast friends, playing happily — and noisily — until the boy's mother came looking for him to take him for an icecream cone. She offered to take Danny along, but Janet said no, not wanting Danny to go off with someone she didn't know. Now Danny was sick. Despite Janet's efforts to soothe him, his soft whimpering became louder until plaintive wails drowned out the old man's snores. "Sh, honey," Janet whispered. "People are trying to sleep." The woman in the red muumuu awakened and peered over the top of her seat. "T'm sorry we disturbed you," Janet apologized. AMONG STRANGERS "Is the little fellow sick?" the woman asked. "T'm afraid so."' Tears welled in Janet's eyes at the unexpected kindness of the woman's tone. THE woman reached over and felt Danny's head. "Goodness, he's burning up," she said. She heaved herself out of her seat and came around to stand in the aisle, searching in her capacious handbag until she found a tiny flashlight. She shined the light on Danny's face, which was decidedly flushed. She pried his mouth open to peer inside. "Are you a_ nurse?" asked hopefully. "No," said the woman, "but I reared eight children and got a lot of what you call practical experience." She chuckled a little, then became serious. "You've got a sick lad there. Wonder if there's a doctor on the train." "Whatsa matter?" rumbled the old man in the cowboy hat, awakening with a start. "Boy's sick," said the woman. "Hah?" said the old man. "Sick," shouted the woman, pointing to Danny. "Who's sick?" demanded a sleepy, feminine voice. "Little boy up here," said the woman in the red muu-muu. The girl in the black pleated skirt and sweater came and bent over Janet. "I'm sorry we awakened you," Janet said. "That doesn't matter," said the girl. "Can I help?" "Want me to go see if I can round up a doctor?" asked the old man. Janet FEBRUARY 1965 "T'd appreciate it," whispered Janet. "Hah?" The old man leaned closer. The woman in the red muumuu nodded vigorously and the old man _ shuffled off. Janet noticed that he had removed his cowboy boots and it touched her that he should be padding off in his stocking feet in search of a doctor for Danny. "Anybody got any aspirin?" asked the woman in the red muumuu loudly. 'We should try to bring his temperature down," she said to Janet. There were murmurs of "I usually carry some with me" and sounds of people stirring in their belongings, but no aspirins were produced. "T'll go find the conductor," said the girl in the black pleated skirt. "He will probably know where we can find some." She disappeared down the aisle. THE woman in the red muu-muu tried to shift Danny to the seat where he would be more comfortable, but he clung to his mother and cried mournfully. It wasn't long until the old man with the cowboy hat returned with a middle-aged woman from another coach. "Couldn't locate a doctor," he announced, "but I lassoed a lady who thinks she might help." "IT reared six children," explained the lady. "T reared eight," said the woman in the red muu-muu, somewhat belligerently. "Oh," laughed the woman. "You're already in capable hands," she told Janet, "but if I can help just let me know." 98 "IT didn't mean you couldn't help," apologized the woman in the red muu-muu. "I'm sorry." The lady from the other coach smiled. "That's all right. I was just going to suggest putting cold cloths on his head to cool him off, but you've probably already suggested that." "As a matter of fact, I've just been standing here like a ninny." said the woman in the red muumuu. "Let's go wet some cloths." After the two women had wiped off his hot body and put a cold compress on his head, Danny seemed more comfortable, but he still twitched and moaned. "Sure wish I could do something for the little nipper," the old man said. "You've done more than you realize," said Janet. "Hah?" said the old man. Janet smiled up at him as she reached out to pat his hand, a gnarled, rough hand which reminded her of her grandfather's. Embarrassed, the old man removed his hat, fumbled with it, and returned it to his head. He looked up the aisle. 'Here comes the boss,"' he said, as if relieved to shift the attention away from himself. The girl in black came toward them with the conductor in tow. "Hear you've got a sick boy," the conductor said. Janet nodded, her throat constricted by the kindness of these strangers who stood there so concerned. "Think he needs a doctor?" asked the conductor. Janet tried to say something but was afraid she would cry if she opened her mouth. THE woman from the other coach spoke up. "I think he does." "There's a town about forty miles from here," said the conductor. "I'll radio ahead and have a doctor waiting." He reached ut to touch Danny's forehead, then left without further comment. Janet was fearful that the doctor would be grumpy at being roused from his bed, but she was mistaken. The train had scarcely stopped in the small prairie town when a cheerful young man carrying a black bag came striding down the aisle followed by the conductor. He smiled briefly at Janet as he knelt by the seat. "Okay, partner," he said briskly. "Let's pop this into your mouth for a minute." Danny made no objection to the thermometer or to the rest of the doctor's examination, which was performed in the light of the conductor's lantern. The other passengers watched silently. It was very quiet when the doctor finally spoke. "I've never seen a_ healthier specimen," he said, smiling again at Janet. "His temperature is high and he may have a virus, but I'd say it's mostly from excitement and over-fatigue. I'll give him something to help him sleep, and leave some aspirin with you. If his temperature isn't normal by the time you get to Chicago tomorrow, you'd better see a doctor there." The doctor gave something to unresisting Danny, and Janet relaxed for the first time since the boy became ill. She smiled gratefully at the cheerful young phyAMONG STRANGERS sician as he gave her instructions about the aspirin. "T'm sorry we got you out of bed," she said. The doctor stood up and patted her shoulder. "It's not the first time,' he said. "Nor the last, I'm sure. Glad I could be of service." He accepted the bill Janet thrust into his hand, tousled Danny's hair, and left. The conductor lingered for a moment. "Send someone after me if he gets any worse," he said. "There's another town in about 100 miles or so." "Thank you," Janet called after him as he walked swiftly out of the coach. She felt that the simple words were inadequate. As the train started, Susan woke up. Before she had a chance to cry out, the lady in the red muumuu swooped down and picked her up. Whispering softly to her, the woman changed her, then cuddled her while she rocked back and forth on the seat crooning, "Go to sleep, Suzie, time for a snoozy." The rest of the people dispersed quietly, assuring Janet they would hurry back if needed. Janet, groggy with fatigue, thanked them all. Cheryl, Janet noticed, still slumbered peacefully. Danny was relaxing limply in her arms. Carefully she laid him down in the seat and leaned back. She hadn't meant to sleep, but when she opened her eyes again sunlight was streaming through the windows of the train. She looked up to see the woman in the red muu-muu peering at her over the back of the seat. "Thought I heard you stir," 9 FEBRUARY 1965 said the woman. 'The children have all been sleeping quietly." Janet looked deeply into the woman's pleasant gray eyes. "How can I ever thank you?" she said. "You don't need to," said the woman. The old man in the cowboy hat awakened and got creakily to his feet. "How's the nipper?" he asked. "I don't know for sure," said Janet. She felt Danny's forehead. "The fever seems to be gone." "Hah?" Danny jumped a little and his blue eyes opened. He stretched and yawned, then gazed fixedly at the old man in the cowboy hat. Abruptly he smiled. "Where's your horse?" he asked in a clear, normal voice. The old man bent closer. "Hah?'' "Your horse," repeated Danny, amidst the happy, relieved laughter of the other passengers. "Well, Pll tell you," said the old man, '"'you come on over to my corral here and I'll tell you about my horse." With tears in her eyes, Janet regarded the people around her. She was shocked when she realized she didn't even know their names, but somehow they had become as dear to her as the people back home. A little later perhaps she would tell them about the misunderstanding concerning Greg, and they could all have a good laugh together. Greg — she could hardly wait to tell him how her adventure had turned out and what she had learned about people. What was Admiral Byrd's discovery compared to hers? But Greg was still a day and a night away, and as for the rest of this trip she was going to relax and enjoy it — among friends. Lael Jensen Littke, was born and grew up on a farm in Mink Creek, Idaho, and was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University. She now lives in California. "We have loved our first year in Southern California,' she tells us, ''and we have found many new friends in Monterey Park Ward and at California State College at Los Angeles where my husband, George C. Littke, teaches. In our travels we have found, as does the girl in my story, that there are wonderful people everywhere. "One of 'my favorite activities here is attending a most stimulating writing class at Pasadena City College. | have sold two stories since the first of the year (1964). "| am at present serving as stake theology class leader in Relief Society, a very challenging and rewarding position. "Our four-and-a-half year old daughter, Lori, provides me with a model for the children in my stories. Right now she has a constant invisible companion—a frog whose grandmother is an alligator.' 100 Ramona W. Cannon Flora Beth Benson, wife of Elder Ezra Taft Benson, member of The Council of the Twelve, and President of the European Mission, is the subject of the feature article in a recent issue of Overseas Living. The article is illustrated with several pictures of Sister Benson, Elder Benson, and their daughter Beth who lives with them in Frankfurt, Germany. Sister Benson's Church activities are discussed in detail, and she is quoted as saying: ''The Relief Society is organized to help women be better homemakers and broaden their education. A few years of it is almost like a college degree."' Roene DiFiore, a Utah musician, well known in the United States, received a unique honor in November 1964. In appreciation of her many years of singing as a soloist in Church and civic events, and for her outstanding conducting of choruses, operettas, and operas, ''Roene Day" was celebrated in Richfield, Utah. Among the many citations mentioned at the celebration was the distinction which Mrs. DiFiore achieved in 1951 in Miami, Florida, when her singing in the American Legion Quartet won an outstanding award in the National finals. Mrs. LaVerne (Don) Carter of Saint Louis is the 1964 champion woman bowler of the United States. Barbara Hall Ellis, author, food technologist, and inventor, is an example of the many facets of accomplishment open to trained home economists. She is the highest ranking woman employee of the Continental Can Company and its twenty-two million dollar Research and Development Center in Chicago, Ilinois. She plans, coordinates, and directs projects at the research center, supervises its test kitchen and taste panel, and trains and directs its home economics staff. Dr. Helen Hogg, grandmother, star gazer, and first woman to be president of the Royai Canadian Institute, was also the first woman elected to the physical science section of the Royal Society of Canada, and in 1960 she became the first woman president of that section. At the dark of the moon she photographs stars and later catalogues their brightness, size, speed, and color, thus adding to the knowledge of how to compute stellar distance. Faith Baldwin, eminent novelist and short story writer, is one of many literary women who claim that creative writing is an ideal hobby and occupational accomplishment for women, since it permits them to remain in their homes and attend to the supervisory duties so necessary to a homemaker, wife, and mother. 101 The Measure of Greatness The month of February in the United States is marked by the birthdays of two great Americans to whom the citizens of the country render honor and homage — George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. The one is called ''The Father of His Country' and the other ''The Great Emancipator.'' The one might be said to be the creator of his country and the other the preserver. Both, undoubtedly, were preordained to their work in fulfillment of the part this country was to have in the restoration and preservation of the gospel in the last dispensation. Both men fulfilled their work in such a way that the hearts of men everywhere are drawn to them. One may ponder on the qualities they possessed which made them great, and attributes come to mind — honesty, courage, bravery, consideration for others, humility, compassion, reverence and dependency on the Lord. As a Relief Society member one may consider at this season the measure of greatness — of the attribute which one should continuously strive to possess and instil and train into the very fiber of one's children. A woman imbued with the teachings and training of Relief SoVolume 52 February 1965 © Number 2 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counsel Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer attributes, and at the core she will finally be confronted by the motto of Relief Society "Charity Never Faileth' — Charity, '"'the Pure love of Christ.'' In this life the man of wealth, of Property, of possessions is, in most places, accorded acclaim, respect, and deference. A wealthy man may be a great man, but not by reason of his material Possessions, "but by reason of the love he bears in his soul for God and man. A Relief Society mother who serves her family and her neighbor as directed by authority, sets an example of love. Her greatness is revealed as she continuously nurtures in herself and in her children the pure love of Christ. Savior gave the answer to the measure of greatness, ''But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant' (Matt. 23:1 1). —M. C. S. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J, Madsen Wealtha S. Mendenhall Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Elsa T. Peterson Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Fanny S. Kienitz Lila B. Walch Evon W. Peterson Elizabeth B. Winters Lenore C, Gundersen Aleine M. Young LaRue H. Roselli Marjorie C. Pingree Josie B. Bay Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Alberta H. Christensen Alice L. Wilkinson Cleone R. Eccles Mildred B. Eyring Irene W. Buehner Edythe K. Watson Edith P. Backman Irene C. Lloyd Ellen N. Barnes Winniefred §. Manwaring Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Elna P. Haymond Fawn H. Sharp; Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith 103 IN MENORIAM ' July 24, 1885 - December 4, 1964 Vilate Romney Ivins, wife of President Antoine R. Ivins, of the First Council of Seventy, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 4, 1964. She was a daughter of Orson Douglas and Emma Phillips Romney, and from her girlhood she was active in Church organizations, serving as teacher and officer in Sunday School, The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, Primary, and Relief Society. She was a missionary in New Zealand while her parents presided over that mission, and was in charge of the auxiliary organizations in the Mexican Mission while her husband presided there. She directed the MIA program in Hawaii while Elder Ivins was manager of the Church plantation. She gave outstanding service in Relief Society as a ward and a stake secretary-treasurer. In the various communities in which President and Sister Ivins have lived, she has made a gracious and inviting home for her husband, with the doors always open to welcome friends, kindred, and visiting Church officials. Sister lvins was a beloved neighbor, discerning, kind, and helpful. Her tenderness and sympathy in times of need endeared her to many. Among those who remember her with an especially warm appreciation are the hundreds of successful and useful men and women who came under her influence in their early years. The General Board and Relief Society members throughout the Church extend heartfelt sympathy to President Ivins and to other family members. May the influence and the memory of this lovely woman be a continuing blessing to them. A Living Faith Mabel Jones Gabbott There is no peace except within the soul Divinely tuned to God and earth and sky, Whose pulses leap to meet each day, to try With nobler effort to achieve each goal. There is no joy except the happiness That comes from deep within. To lose oneself In serving others will ensure a wealth Of pure content, of lasting loveliness. There is no promise of security Without a living faith in God's supremacy, Oh, help us to believe and kneel and pray, And learn acceptance of thy gracious way; Unless we love thee, and our fellow men, There is no peace, and all our search is vain. 104 glotes to the Field ————— —— Copies of the 1964 index for The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Sociey officers and members who wish to have their 1964 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. (See advertisement on page 156.) The Deseret News Press includes a copy of the index at no extra charge for each set of Magazines bound. I HEART FUND DOLLARS — A HOPE FOR BETTER LIFE The American Heart Association World-wide efforts are being made to conquer the Number One Cause of Death, Heart and Circulatory Diseases. In many countries, associations and scientific groups operate on a voluntary basis to carry out programs of research, professional and public education, and community. Service for the millions of people afflicted by heart disease. Thanks to the generosity of people in all walks of life, educational materials for free distribution to the public are prepared by the American Heart Association and its affiliates in every state of the United States. There is great hope for prevention and treatment of heart diseases through research and education. Wives and mothers are made aware of the problems created by rheumatic fever and inborn heart defects among children; how heart attacks and strokes may afflict the breadwinners of their families; and how the other cardiovascular diseases also create critical health and economic problems in countless homes. "For Advice About Your Heart, Ask Your Doctor; For Information, Ask Your Heart Association."" This is the theme wherever there is a Heart Association. Literature available on request covers almost all heart and circulatory diseases: heart attack, stroke, rheumatic fever, high blood presSure, diet and heart disease, smoking and heart disease, congenital heart defects, heart murmurs, varicose veins, and many others. Millions of people support the heart fund by giving both time and money for its life-saving programs. Heart Fund dollars give hope for life. 105 "Ou, Mommy, Mommy, Mommy," Lavina called excitedly at the sight of the first valentine cookie she carefully cut from the rolled-out dough. "Look at it. Isn't it real pretty?" "What's so great about that?" Joe ambled nonchalantly into the kitchen and peered over Lavina's shoulder. 'You'd think she had created some great invention or something — maybe an _ earthshaking event." Lydia took the cutter from Lavina's hand. "It's a lovely valentine, darling," she said, before turning to Joe. "I can remember when you were Lavina's age, you had fun making cookies. You got just as excited, too." "So there,"' Lavina said hovering over the cookie board. "Could I — I mean would you write on it, 'I love Daddy,' and one 'I love Mommy"' " "That would be sweet, but I don't know if there is enough room." 106 (Zio %@ Valentines ye. |e ay Helen H. Trutton "If you write small, maybe...." Lydia took the knife from the rack and carved out the words "T love Daddy," while Lavina cut another valentine.. "Let's see, she said, reaching into the cupboard, "I think these little red: bead decorations poked in the message will keep the dough from cooking together where I wrote, and Daddy could read it." "Oh!" Lavina's eyes danced: with joy. "It makes my valentine even nicer."' She handed another cut-out cookie to her. "Put 'I love Mommy' on. This _ one, please,"' she said. Lydia smiled down at her youngest child. "Thank you, dear. And I love you, too." "My valentine is in the backyard," ten-year-old Susan said, coming into the room. "Look Mother. I made mine in the snow." Lydia walked to the window, pulled back the freshly starched Curtains, and read aloud. "Be my "Oh, never Mind," Joe an. Valentine. I love you all." SWered shyly. "W. Y so much "Now that's a nove] valentine, fuss? Valentine', Is just another and very very lovely," she Said, day." slipping her arm around Susan. Lydia Slanced at him. He was "Thank you, darling," at the "ge to he embarrasseq. 1 ie" Susan Said, "until Daddy Pleased look on his face, she knew Sees it as to busy hen he Was flattereq In his Oung sis e€ cam me at noo > I didn't ter's thoughtfulness t get a Chance to show t to him." $ ne for Susa and 'Y, too," Lavina aid eagerly "Th big rea] estate dea] _ She could "Well I don't think we have to understand his deep Concern to 4 include them in your valentines," valentine With her hair up in Lypia turned quickly toward Curlers, Those slowly creeping the door. "Come in, Freda," She Pounds she had been adding Said. "On your way to work, J didn't exactly enhance her apSuppose?" Pearance either. Seventeen years "Yes, Anything new around Could make a lot of changes na here?" Person, J, hn been go Proud "No," Ydia answered "ex. Of her en they Were first Marcept We're mak M8 cookies Sit Ned — a so p €ased that down, Fr expect you're She Wore a size twely, dress and busy at the sho to — every. Now.... One b Ying ne dresses for the "Mommy, Mommy," Lavina's ball tonight." excited Voice Teached her. "T'm "Busy enough," Freda replied. Waiting for yoy to write T love "T can't Stay, J] Just Stopped by ommy,' " O see j there w anything Tor, then Urried to the kitchen oU and Jo Coming to Picked P th Me again, and the Sweetheart B Onight Wrote « mmy," at Laaren't you?" Vina'. Direction "T ho SO, though John has " ere's one to Write — « been go busy lately Oubt if lov, Joe," e child Said, shoy € even Temembers What day this Ng another cut-out towa d her is," 107 FEBRUARY 1965 "It's your anniversary for one thing, isn't it?" Lydia walked over to the window before speaking. "Yes, it is. But as I said, John's very busy." "Surely he won't be that busy — this being your anniversary and all," Freda commented. '"T'll see you later. I really must run along." Lydia followed her to the door and watched her hurry down the street. Even Freda remembered it was their wedding anniversary. If John would only take a second to say, "Happy Anniversary," that would be enough. Then she would know that he hadn't forgotten. "Mommy, I peeked in the oven and the valentines must be cooked," Lavina called out. "Oh, dear, I almost forgot them," she said, hurrying to the kitchen and opening the oven. "Lucky you remembered them, Lavina." "T'll take them off the sheet, Mother, if you'll finish my valentine dress for the party," Susan said. "It's almost time for me to go." "A good idea," Lydia agreed. "It's only a small job finishing it." She went into the bedroom, picked up Susan's dress, and sat down at the sewing machine. It wasn't like John not to mention their anniversary. And he always wrote his own charming little valentine message. He was a poet —oh, not like Longfellow, Burns, or certainly not a Browning, but the thought was genuine and especially precious to her. She switched on the machine and quickly stitched in the hem, then 108 pulled out the basting threads, and returned to the kitchen with the dress. "T'll press it," she said, "and then you may try it on." "Thank you, Mother." Susan gave her a big hug. "It's absolutely dreamy." Lydia took the ironing board from the closet and laid the dress over it. "The color is just right for you. You'll look mighty sweet in it," she said. "Mighty sweet." "T love it," Susan said, dancing around the room. "I'd_ better hurry or [ll be late for the party." "I am hurrying, dear," she said. 'Now remember, you are to be home by dinnertime. We don't want to keep Daddy waiting. I'm sure he has had a big day." She took the dress from the board and watched Susan as she skipped happily down the hall, holding the dress in her hands. Everyone was excited about the day except John. Maybe she was being petty — John was a wonderful husband. Supposing he had forgotten.... She was placing too much importance on the matter. Sue was still standing near the ironing board when Susan dashed out of her room, dressed in her new dress, struggling with her coat. "TI'll be home early, Mother. Goodbye. Oh, Lavina is taking a nap in our room. I covered her up well." "Thanks, dear. Have fun." With Susan gone, she was alone except for Lavina. Joe had gone down the street to help a friend make a snowman, and Mary hadn't returned from her babysitting job. The house seemed large and lonely. She wandered aimlessly from the kitchen to the living room. In case John did want to go to the Sweetheart Ball, she'd better check on her blue dress. She hadn't worn it for sometime, and it might need repairs, or pressing while the iron was hot. Lydia walked briskly to the bedroom, opened the wardrobe door, and took her blue dress from its hanger. She started to move away, and then _ she stopped. There, hanging on the rack just beyond the place where the blue one had been hanging, was the most beautiful pale pink lace sheath she had ever seen. Cautiously she reached for it, almost afraid it was a mirage of some kind. ''Why for goodness sakes," she said aloud, although she was alone in the room. "For me?" With trembling fingers, she reached for a homemade valentine pinned to the dress and read. 'To the dearest girl in all the land. My happiest day was the day I won your hand. My valentine for all eternity." Lydia smiled as she took the dress from the hanger, and held it closely to her. Then she let the frock fall limp in her arms as she glanced down at the size twelve in bold figures on the tag. 'Oh, no," she cried, "why I haven't worn that size in years. I can't possibly get into this." She stood several minutes staring at the dress. She would have to do something, but what? She had better call John and tell him. He could exchange it perhaps. Or maybe Freda.... She hurried to VALENTINE'S DAY the telephone and dialed Freda's number. "Hello Freda," she said when she heard her friend's voice on the other end of the line. "I... Nr "Oh, you finally found the dress?" Freda laughed. "I thought you never would." "It's a size twelve. It simply won't fit, and it's so beautiful." She heard Freda laugh softly. "That's what I tried to tell John." "What shall I do?" _ "Calm down for one thing," Freda said. "I knew you didn't wear size twelve anymore, so I ordered you a size sixteen the day John bought that one. It came in this morning." "Oh, thank you, Freda. You're a wonderful friend. I'll be right down and exchange it as soon as Lavina awakens." As an afterthought, she added, "Of course T'll tell John the truth." Freda laughed. "I doubt if he will believe you, but suit yourself. I tried to tell him, but he said, 'I guess I know what size my wife wears. She wore size twelve when we were married, and she hasn't changed one bit. Except....'" "Except what?' Lydia asked breathlessly. "Except he said you were seventeen years lovelier." "Thank you, Freda, for everything," Lydia said excitedly. She hung up the receiver, and stood quietly a moment. A wife just couldn't receive a better compliment than that... Not in a hundred years. What a wonderful Valentine's Day it was! 109 Tisu Haworth woke with a sour taste in her mouth; not, she told herself, from anything she had eaten the night before, but because of something she had discovered about herself. She was an old woman with no mind, will power, or memory. She had suspected it a time or two, but had refused to believe the evidence. There was the time she had lost her legal papers, and had eventually found them right where she had put them so she wouldn't forget them. Around a quilt on Relief Society work day, she had heard younger women tell of doing just such thoughtless 110 acts. That proved it was not age that made her forget, but last night was different. No younger woman would have made such a fool of herself. There was no place in society for one of her age and degree of frayed will power. Tish reached and moved the window drape so she could see out. Cold weather, cold, rainy, and dreary. She dropped the drape and tried to coax sleep by snuggling under the blanket. No use. The events marched relentlessly through her mind. It had begun two weeks ago. Sharon, her granddaughter, had bounded through the kitchen door bursting with news. Madame Knolski was coming to judge their state finals, 'their' meaning the Junior Musicians League. It was an out-of-this-world privilege, and the League was having a reception for her. "She is a real kewpie."' Sharon's enthusiasm was boundless. "IT met her last summer when our orchestra went to Seattle. Remember?" Tish nodded with something less than enthusiasm. She had heard the name Madame Knolski so many times it had become a pain to her ears. "Are you coming to the reception GM? GM was Sharon's latest for Grandmother. "Of course, darling. Why?' "Oh — I just wondered." Sharon turned to leave, but at the door she turned. "I thought you might be too tired if you attend the tryouts." "What an idea. You know I shan't be that tired. If your mother has to go early I have my car." "Yes — but..." then the reason for the question came out, "this is going to be real top layer, not exactly formal, but...." "T have a formal. You know how beautiful it is. Your Grandfather bought it for me when "Way back when," Sharon gulped over the disrespectful words, then hurried on. "GM, I love you so much, and I want to be proud of you when I introduce you to Madame Knolski. Won't you please get a new dress — a new one, not the old kind you always buy, and some new shoes? You always look so — so grandmotherly and — and...." MADAME LETITIA "Comfortable?" After all Sharon was a teenager and suffering from a severe case of hero worship. Tish swallowed a taste of bitterness, then spoke in her usual tone. "Don't worry. I will make sure you are proud of me." Sharon threw her arms around her grandmother. "I am proud of you, GM. I really am. You understand, don't you?" "More than you know. Run along now." Tish literally pushed her out of the door. WHEN the door had closed Tish collapsed in a chair. Understand? What Sharon meant was easy to understand — just make herself into a Madame Knolski who undoubtedly was petite, flashy, and certainly tottered about on spike heels. Tish looked at her own feet encased in comfortable walking shoes. "I must do it. I will show Sharon her Madame Knolski isn't the only one who knows how to dress. Thank goodness, I don't have the shape of a kewpie, and I hope Madame Knolski doesn't either." Tish was not petite, not by forty or fifty pounds, but she was not obese, and she had kept herself straight. Her hair was only slightly gray. She would start shopping tomorrow — no, tomorrow was Relief Society. She would start today. She made an appointment with a beauty operator whose prices were twice what she paid Carma over on Thirty-third Street. She felt guilty and wondered if she should call Carma but decided against it. There was really no need for apologies. Tish set forth to get her dress and shoes with very sure ideas MW FEBRUARY 1965 of what she wanted and how long she should spend shopping and what she was going to pay. She avoided the shops where she usually found her dresses. She shopped all that day and the next and the next, with time out only for Relief Society. The clerks in the new shops were very certain what she should have. She tried on dresses and shoes until her arms ached and her feet screamed. Why, of all the beautiful dresses couldn't she find one that pleased both her and the clerks. They were too long, too short, too old-fashioned, too "smart." The necklines were too low, the hemlines too high. Several times Tish was tempted to give up the struggle, but the thought of Sharon's pride kept her going. The second week came, and she was no nearer the end of her search than she had been the first day. Her friends complained to each other that she was never home and she never answered her telephone. However, Tish kept up the search. She went from shop to shop. Each evening she came home determined she would not go again, the results could not possibly be worth the effort, and each morning she went again. She was sure she had tried on more dresses than could be collected in any one town. By the end of the second week, she succumbed to pure fatigue. As a last resort, she went back to a clerk named Alma who had seemed more understanding than the others. "Let me think." Alma looked at her with narrowed eyes. "I think I have just the dress for you. It came in just yesterday." 12 Several moments later she came back with a cloud of iridescent rose and blue over her arm. "Oh! Oh! How beautiful!" Tish was all eagerness to try it on, but on, it looked much less than perfect. It was too short, the neckline was too low, the waist line lacked an inch of meeting. "What you need," Alma announced calmly, "is a good stiff foundation." Tish had been told that a dozen times, but this time she did not object. While Alma was gone Tish removed the dress. She couldn't possibly wear a dress as beautiful and girlish as that. But with the foundation and the help of an alteration woman, they decided the dress would do. THE night of the reception, Tish laid her new clothes on her bed. She mades sure the doors were ~locked. She did not want anyone to see her until she was arrayed in all her splendor. Her hair looked elegant but quite unfamiliar. It took all her ingenuity and strength to get the foundation zipped. Lastly the dress went over her head. Tish then viewed herself in a full length mirror and gasped with delight. Why, she was almost beautiful. She looked ten years younger. She was suddenly very much in sympathy with Sharon's viewpoint. She preened a little, fingering the beads she had bought to cover her bare throat. She whirled to bring out the iridescent glory of the skirt. She reached for her coat. This was going to be a wonderful evening. She picked up her glittering new bag — then stopped short. Something was missing. Shoes — pumps. She tried to push her feet into one, then sat down to put them on. They were a dream of brocaded satin, flashy clips, and spike heels. But — but they were not the size she had tried on. No mistake, printed size indicated. "Tt is all in my mind," she tried to reassure herself. "If other women can balance on _ toothpicks, I can, too." Before the evening was over Tish hoped her vow would not be taken seriously. Fortunately, her feet became so numb that by leaning on chair backs, holding on to arms, and sitting when she could edge onto a chair ahead of someone else, she managed to present a reasonable facsimile of her usual gay, vocal self. She was tempted to slip out of her slippers but wisely resisted. She thought of all the martyrs who had inflicted punishment on_ themselves. Miapame Knolski was just as Tish had anticipated. She was petite and stood and walked about on spikes without a sign of discomfort. _ Her girlish skirt swished pleasingly, but her hair was white; not bleached or rinsed, just white that comes with age. Unwillingly, Tish began to like her. When the time came to leave, Tish could scarcely wait to get out to their car; but barring her way at the door stood Althea, Tish's best friend. "Salaam! Madame Letitia." Althea bowed dramatically. She glanced scornfully from her friend's still perfect hairdo to the MADAME LETITIA glittering pumps, then turned and walked toward her own car. A period on a most frustrating evening. + See The sting of that goodnight had put the sour taste in Tish's mouth. The next morning she felt even more embarrassed. "She was right," Tish acknowledged. "I aman old woman. If I am as old as I feel, I am at least a hundred. But I love to go places and do things. I love life. I don't want to be old-fashioned but...."" Memories of last evening cut short the sentence. With a groan she swung her feet to the floor. Without interest, Tish prepared and ate her breakfast. Usually she went for a walk before eating, but what old woman could go abroad on such a dark, rainy day. Just settle down in your rocking chair and be your age! But she had no rocking chair. THE rain drizzled off, and suddenly Tish knew she must go for a walk. A walk had always been the starting of her day's activities, and she might walk the soreness out of her feet. Once on -the graveled road where she walked each morning, her spirits lifted. Fall had always been her favorite time of the year. Yesterday the trees on either side had swayed with the breeze, touching the leaves with a soft rustling sound. Last night's rain had stripped them of their gay leaves. What had been a riot of color was now drab gray and brown. Nearing the place of return, Tish paused a moment to breathe deeply. She did so enjoy walks 113 FEBRUARY 1965 and morning air. Looking ahead, she spied a single rose. It had poked itself through a hedge and its color was an affront to the gloomy morning. Tish hastened ahead and reached out to pluck the rose, then stopped short. From up the street it had looked perfect, but up close — there was no other word for it — it was old. It was falling apart. Raindrops clung to the dying petals. The inner core was tinged with brown. Nature was having her way. Tish turned from the rose and started slowly back. Time could not be stopped, and it was time she acknowledged it. She hoped that someone's judgment would keep her from making a fool of herself. She would wear what she had and try to be content. As she reached the pavement that led to her home, Tish stopped and looked about as she usually did. Dark rain curtains hung from. Every direction and drops began to fall, faster and faster. Still she watched. Then, unbelievably, from the darkest cloud a rainbow appeared. Its beginning and end were hidden, yet there it was, small, but real, and defying the clouds just to wink companionably to her. It was gone in a second, but she had seen it. Tish finished her walk exuberant with delight. The rose was dying, but the rainbow promised new life. There was a lot of life yet to be lived, and she was going to enjoy every moment. She still had some willpower and she would use it to buy dresses or not to buy dresses. Sharon was sitting in the kitchen. 114 "Grandmother, where have you been in all this rain?" "Where I usually am this time of the morning." Tish was shedding her raincoat when Sharon threw her arms around her and burst into tears. "Oh, Grandmother," (it was no longer GM), "I am so proud of you and so ashamed of myself and that — that Althea...." '""Now what in the world?" Tish ran her hand through her hair. "When I saw you dressed as you were, you just didn't look like my darling Grandmother. I love you much more as you are now." "With stringy hair and wet shoes? Never mind, darling. I think we have both learned a lesson. Some grandmothers can flit about, but I am not a butterfly." Sharon's kiss was worth all the expense and pain. Then Sharon shifted to a teenager. "Grandmother, what are you going to do with your dress and slippers?" Tish smothered a_ chuckle. "'Well — I think the dress can be altered so I can wear it. The shoes — I might, yes, you may have them, but you know your Father won't let you wear them." "But I will have them. Thank you. Thank you." Sharon snatched the slippers from a kitchen chair where she had conveniently placed them, and raced down the walk. Tish watched until she was out of sight, then she closed the door. "Get busy, Madame Letitia. You are still young enough to do a variety of things and take delight in doing them, but time is of the essence." Home Dorothy J. Roberts Home was morning-glory, A brook, a buttercup And overhead a star at night, Whenever my eyes looked up; A promise never broken, Like a rainbow in the sky; The scent of sun-dried linen And someone standing by. Sturdy as a temple, Unchanging as the sun, Home was manna, and Canaan When wilderness was done. Birthday Pie Ivy Houtz Woolley Did you ever make a Birthday Pie? | have, for | originated this idea. The needed things to work with are as follows: 1 plum pie — large (or any other kind of two-crust pie) 1 colored candle, 8-10 inches tall (8 inches preferred) Small birthday cake candles to designate members of the family or friends. First place the pie on a musical cake plate, or a tall glass cake stand. Put a tall taper in the center of the pie, then surround the tall candle with tiny candles in little holders available at dime stores. If a number of people are at the party, have other pies in the kitchen, enough to serve everyone. Use the pie as 4 centerpiece for the table. Place a mirror under the pie container, and add doilies, flowers, figurines, OF anything suitable to beautify your Birthday Pie table. 5 Submitted by Ada W. Schaelling Broccoli Casserole 2 pkgs. Chopped frozen broccoli (or chopped fresh broccoli) 1 large onion or two smaller ones 1 c. Water salt to taste 1 large can evaporated milk (13 oz.) 4 tbsp. Flour mixed to a paste with milk 1 c. Chopped or cubed cheese (sharp or semi-sharp) buttered crumbs to cover Chop onion coarsely and boil in water until tender. Add broccoli and cook until crisp-tender. Add milk and salt and heat. Add thickening and simmer gently for about 2 minutes. Fold in cheese and pour into casserole. When ready to serve cover the casserole with bread crumbs that have been sauteed in butter or margarine. Heat in oven until bubbly and browned. Serves 12 to 18. Mystery Pie 6 egg whites. For better volume, separate when cold, beat when at room temperature 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 c. Sugar 1 c. Soda cracker crumbs 1 c. Chopped nuts Beat egg whites, vanilla, and baking powder, and add sugar slowly. When mixture stands in soft peaks, fold in crumbs and nuts. Spread in greased pan (9" x 13") and bake 25 to 30 minutes at 350°. Serve with whipped cream. Use 1 c. Cream, 2 tbsp. Sugar, and 1/2 tsp. Vanilla. Cream should be put on the pie a few hours before serving to soften the pie. Can be frozen, if desired, after adding the whipped cream. Makes 24 servings, approximately. 116 Mildred McKenzie Trish Mission Relief Society, for enough of those! That was impossible, of them With Paper doilies and evaporated milk Cans. Some wire, Paper doilies, and ribbon can be put Party flower basket. Materials required for One basket: One 12-inch Square doily One 12-inch round doily One 4 or 5-inch round doily Cellophane tape one 3-foot length of Wire one empty tall-size evaporated milk can 117 FEBRUARY 1965 Directions for making lace baskets ter of Pencil line shows, Make three or four slashes with scissors to the pencil line. 4. Turn the can upside down on a table; slip the large doily over and down to the table. Tape slashed Sections to the doily cover on the can. Winter Sun Doreen Dickson dying embers of fall. € refined gold is left where the cool, pure light of winter reigns — reigns during the long winter months over cities and towns, rivers and forests, valleys and Snowy lanes. Ireva Watkins — Hobbies Help to Make Her Happy lreva E. Watkins, Logan, Utah, has had to change her way of life. Five years ago she was an active worker in Relief Society. She had served as a counselor in the ward presidency, as a visiting teacher message leader, and for many years as a visiting teacher. Then her left side was made inactive, following a stroke, and she became homebound. She was not discouraged, however, and her many talents and interests, some of which had been long postponed, came into a time of full flowering. She takes care of dozens of thriving African violets, makes beautiful trousseau articles for her granddaughters and gifts for her friends. Aprons, pillows, pillowslips, tablecloths, and needlecraft pictures are among the crafts that brighten her house and make her friends and relatives grateful for the well-developed talents of Sister Watkins. Her ward Relief Society officers and members often visit Sister Watkins and they enjoy the dear companionship of sisterhood. Sister Watkins has three sons and eight grandchildren. 119 The Turn of the Wheel CHAPTER 5 Mabel Harmer Elsa Breinholt leaves her native Heidelberg for America, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States Army. She obtains) work at a department store and shares an apartment with three other girls. Esa had looked forward with some apprehension to her first Christmas away from home. She knew that she would greatly miss their old Yuletide customs. From the crowds of people who came into the store in ever-increasing numbers, she wondered if Christmas in America was anything beyond a mad rush of gift buying and giving. Her three roommates had all gone to their respective homes for the holidays, and each one had invited her to go with her. Since the Knowltons had urged her to come for dinner and spend the rest of the day, she had declined the others. How she regretted that decision now! Mrs. Knowlton had phoned just after breakfast that her mother had died in Arizona and they were leaving immediately to drive down. The irony of it was that she had awakened to the feeling that it was going to be a really wonderful day. She had stretched luxuriously in bed, going over the 120 details in her mind, savoring every one — carols on the radio — opening her gifts — dinner at the Knowltons. Then the phone had rung. It was no call to wish her a merry Christmas, or even to make a change in the time of dinner. It changed her crystal bright. Day into a black well of unhappiness. She had replaced the phone slowly. Well, she could still have the fun of opening her gifts. She would make that last as long as possible. 'With care she might even stretch the ceremony out to last an hour. That would leave only ten more hours before the end of the day. Only ten. It might as well be a hundred. She untied the ribbons very slowly. Even so she was down to her last box in twenty minutes. It was a huge affair, wrapped in the gayest of papers and tied with a bright red bow. The card read "Fyrom Santa Claus." Elsa knew it could have come from no one but Burt. When it was opened she brought forth a brown velvet kangaroo. It had a startled look and a wobbly tail. Elsa couldn't help smiling. She recalled that Burt had said Santa Clat's would give her a present to pass along to someone else.: How some youngster would adore it, she thought. There was Tony, June's three-year-old nephew. Maybe someday she would pass it on to him. Burt what if right now there was some child as bereft of a real Christmas as she was? Someone who had trusted in St. Nickolas right up to that very morning and then been disappointed? There was no way now to find such a child, but she could take it up to one of the children's hospitals. There must be an endless demand for toys among the young patients. She would take it up herself. It would give her something to do, as well as a chance to stir up a bit of happiness. The idea made the day seem a trifle brighter, but not very much. She waited impatiently until after lunchtime, then wrapped the kangaroo carefully in some of her leftover holiday paper and went out to catch the bus. At the hospital she walked in the door and looked around. There was no one at the reception desk but, a few minutes later, a woman came rushing back. Elsa was pleased to recognize her as a member of the ward choir. "Hello, Sister Watkins," she said. "Is this where you celebrate Christmas?" "It is today," was the reply. "And I doubt if Santa Claus was any busier last night than I've been today. We're short of help, and I've had to double as receptionist and PBX operator. How may I help you?" "T]] try not to add to your duties," smiled Elsa. "T brought up a gift, hoping there might be some child who could use it. It's one of my own, but I wasn't to keep it." She took off the wrappings and held up the kangaroo for approval. "Tet me see now. Oh, I know just the lad!" Sister Watkins nodded. "Little Danny Rossiter 321 FEBRUARY 1965 has had no visitors today. His folks live way up in Montana. He's had an operation on his feet, so he can't get around yet to play. He's in that bed over there in the corner. Perhaps you'd like to take it in. The switchboards needs my attention." "T'd love to. And may I stay for a little while?" "Ves, indeed. If you have a spare story, or would care to read from one of the books, it would surely help. I doubt if any of our volunteer workers will show up today — good as they are to give us their time." Elsa walked into the big room. There were a dozen beds lined up against the wall. Some of the little patients were flat on their backs. Others were sitting up and a few were in wheel chairs. Most of them were engrossed in playing with the new toys they had received for Christmas. She spotted Danny's bed and walked over. The boy appeared to be about four years of age. Both of his legs were heavily bandaged, but he was sitting up and playing with a ball on a string, throwing it out and bringing it back again. "Hello, Danny," she smiled. "What a beautiful ball! May I throw it just once?" "Yes," he agreed quickly, evidently rather glad to give it over. Elsa took the ball and threw it once. "That is fun," she said, handing it back. "I brought you another gift. Would you like to see it?" "Oh, yes!" Now his eyes brightened and he looked at her eagerly. She handed him the kangaroo, and he gave a cry of delight. 122 "What's his name?" he asked. "T really don't know. You'll have to give it a name. And it's a she. Do you see this pouch in front? That is to carry a baby kangaroo." "Then — her name — is Sal- 9 ly. "That's a lovely name. How did you happen to think of it?" "My nurse's name is Sally." "Oh. She'll be so pleased that you named your kangaroo after her. It shows how much you love her." Danny nodded in complete agreement. Esa drew up a chair and sat down. Danny was taking stock of the kangaroo, flipping the long tail, pulling the ears, punching the nose. He stuck his ball in the pouch and gave a squeal of delight. "T expect you'll find all kinds of things to put in there," Elsa suggested. Danny looked about but could find nothing more so Elsa explored her pocketbook. She came out with a flowered handkerchief, a mirror, and a bus transfer. Danny stored them carefully away, as befitting rare treasures. The baby in the next bed started to cry and she walked over. She stood there uncertainly, talking in soothing tones, but the baby merely looked up, stopped for a moment, and then cried more loudly than ever. She wondered if she dared pick up the child. She knew that the hospital rules were strict in. Such matters. She decided to go back to the desk and get permission. "Would it be all right if I picked up the baby in the bed next to "Surely," replied Sister Watlady," smiled Elsa, "Do you want kins, "But but on a Uniform to See how funny | can really Over your dress here are S€vlook?" She ask d eral in tha Closet down the hal] Ric quiete doubtIt's al] night to Pick that One up. Fy] anticip tion Isa Pulled e's an orthopedic Case, too." up the corners mouth Sa found a uniform that was making her Nose ¢ h. About the right Size, Slipped it "Do it again," he commanded, Over her dress, and went back. As she stopped for a brief rest. I ngly, she Pulled another Minute he Was picked up. She face While he Watched in fascj. 1 ence, there," She said YMpathetically Said, "You may relax Now and "Well, SO would anyone else." look Pretty again. And thanks So She Was stil] rubbing 8ently much. An you Spare the time As she Was Putting the child 'Yes, of Course. J] be glad to, back in his be 4 Masculine VOice J aven 9), Said, "J Could use You over here "Over this Way, then," As they a few Minutes, nurse, jf you're Walked towards another end' of a one else 4round who plied With a faint smile, «y] came could Possibly ft the Tole. She here last fal] from Germany — Walked Over to another beq Where alone. The Only one of my fam- ':. Ae © doctor wa ttemptin onteily. Mean Mvited' oyt Move ge, &reatly ampto dinner With lends, but they ered by flailing TMs and | Zs had a death j; mily and i nurse," she €xhad to cance] left me ith Plained = ly dropped im a YL couldn' Possibly spend ut I'll be pg] d to » If I can." alone, go e ere, | "All yo d is trength and bought Yi th a Velvet dexterity, » d the doctor "Try kangaroo 4 to hold On to al] appendages "Talk a 0 Iver linings!" h and pay NO attentj N to his yells, exclaimed, «« One turned out e€ isn't €ing hurt half that to be Platiny for the kids and Much, TP IS is hig & chance to me Bruce Kirton," be heard. Now, Rick," he said to "Dm Elsa Breinholt, and I'm the boy, "Just look at the Pretty go 8lad to be able to help, I'm FEBRUARY 1965 much more pleasant than I had dared hope." "For the rest of us," he insisted. He stopped at another bed and looked down at the small, thin boy lying there. '"How's Tommy Tucker?" he asked, with a cheerfulness that Elsa somehow guessed to be largely assumed. "Okay, Doc," the boy smiled back. "Mind if I straighten the brace just a mite?" he asked. "No, Doc." The boy's eyes filled with tears, and Elsa had to struggle to hold back her own. "This pretty lady will hold your hand. And I'd do anything if she would just hold mine." Elsa couldn't help the blush that flooded her cheeks. 'Shall I pull faces, hike I did for Rick?" she asked. "I'm almost as good as a clown." Tommy merely nodded his assent. "Don't you think that blue eyes are much prettier than brown?" the doctor asked, as he turned the twisted little leg. Elsa's "funny face" underwent a quick transformation. How could he have noticed her eyes. He had hardly given her a sidelong glance. Tommy's only answer was a low moan, as he gripped Elsa's hand more tightly. She could only grip back again. She could not even pretend a funny face now. "You sure got a nice haul for Christmas," said the doctor, glancing at the toys at the foot of the bed. "Don't forget to ask Santa for a football for next year. You're going to need one. You have to sort of make up for lost time." 124 The boy's face brightened. "TI sure will, Doc," he promised. As they walked away, Elsa asked, ''Isn't it a bit rugged to have to give up your holiday for work as usual?" He shrugged. "It's all part of the job. Anyway, I was supposed to go to my sister's place for dinner tonight. But, with half a dozen assorted relatives, in addition to fifteen or sixteen youngsters, I decided I'd just as scon come here. The well ones are harder to take than the sick ones. They all blow horns and run things on wheels. To be completely honest I wanted to go skiing tomorrow, so I'm doing part of my work today." "That's what I like about you Americans," she laughed. "Our skiing? Surely, living so close to the Alps, you have...." "No. Your honesty — or rather your frankness." "Thanks. I have to go to one of the other wards," he went on. "If you want to busy yourself here for another hour, I'd be most happy to have your company for dinner tonight. There are a few good places open, I suppose." "Oh, I'd love to!" she exclaimed. "T'll read some stories to the children out of their Christmas books." "Good. ITll meet you in the foyer at six." She turned away in a pleasant glow of happiness, and then some of it began to fade. Had he asked her only because of the hard luck tale she had told? Or perhaps in-payment for the help she had given? Or just because he wanted some company — any com- pany, for dinner? It didn't matter, really. This was her only chance for Christmas, and she was going to enjoy it. She went back to Danny's bed. "Has Sally been behaving well?" she asked. "She ate all my supper," Danny replied. "Dear me. That isn't quite fair. You must watch out that she doesn't just slip it in her pocket." "T'll watch." "Would you like to have me read you a story?" "Oh, yes! The books are over there. I'd like the one with the red cover." "There were at least twenty books with red covers, but she chose one and went back to read. One story wasn't enough, of course. She saw the boy in the next bed straining to hear and moved her chair between them. She read half a dozen more stories. It was now a quarter of six and she wanted the last few minutes in which to take off the uniform and freshen up for her dinner date. "I have to go now," she said, "but I'll come back again someday and read more stories to you." There were audible sighs and protests, but she merely smiled and closed the book quite firmly. She was walking over to put it back on the shelf when she heard low crying from the last bed. A small boy, with tousled blond hair, turned his face from the wall. It was twisted in pain. "What's the matter, Sonny?" she asked. TURN OF THE WHEEL "I hurt," he said, between sobs. Elsa bent down and took one of his hands. "Where do you hurt the most?" she asked. "My legs. They got burned." It was now ten minutes of six and she wanted to hurry away, but the boy clung tightly to her hand. She noticed a clown on a trapeze at the foot of his bed. She picked it up and began to put it through some of its antics. The boy stopped crying and smiled faintly. "What's your asked. "Mike." "The clown likes you, Mike. He wants you to laugh at him." Mike tried. Then a spasm of pain crossed his face again and he seized Elsa's hands. She drew one free and began to stroke his head, hoping to soothe him to sleep. "Listen, Mike," she said softly. "I have to go. Someone is waiting for me. I haven't had any Christmas at all today and this is my only chance. I'm a long way from home — and for the first time in my life. If I don't go now, Mike, he will think that I don't want to go with him. And I do — very much." She was talking to herself, rather than Mike, who wasn't hearing a word she said and wouldn't have cared if he had heard. She glanced at her watch. Twenty minutes after six. Surely if he cared he would come to the door and look for her. She glanced back every few seconds, but he didn't come. He hadn't cared very much, after all, about meeting her. It was just one name?" she 125 FEBRUARY 1965 more disappointment in this wretched day. She might just as well stay here and do what she could to help this pain-wracked child. It was nearly seven when she withdrew her hand for the last time with no protest from Mike. Slowly she walked out into the foyer to take off her uniform and get her coat. He hadn't even looked into the ward. This was the most disappointing part of all. A mist came over her eyes. Why couldn't she have had just this one bit of happiness? She brushed her hand across her eyes and then her heart gave a leap. There he was, over in an easy chair, fast asleep. He had waited, after all. The relief was almost overwhelming. Quickly she hurried down the hall for her coat. She gave her face the merest possible attention. He might awaken any minute and have no way of knowing where she was. W5EN she returned to the foyer, he was still there and still asleep. She stood by hesitantly. Maybe he had been up all night. Maybe he needed this sleep a lot more than dinner — or her company. But she couldn't just go off and leave him. She could either sit down, or else awaken him. What if she sat there until eight or nine? He would think she was an utter fool. Maybe he would be right. She would wait just fifteen minutes. She was halfway across the room when a voice said, "Good evening, Miss Breinholt." She turned in some confusion. 126 "So, you were about to walk out on me," he continued in mock accusation. "Just like a woman. Shut your eyes for one minute and she disappears." He glanced at his watch. "Good night! The last time I looked it was only a quarter of six. You haven't been...?" "Waiting? No. I had to stay in the ward and lull Mike to sleep. I supposed that you had left long ago." "So, I was all but cut out by a four-year-old tousle-head! Come on quickly before you get nabbed again...." "Or you do," she added laughing. He took her arm and led her out to the car. At the top of Main Street he stopped. "TI always have to take time out to enjoy this picture," he said. "It's always a delight. I guess I never grew up." Elsa replied with only a sigh of pleasure. Below, almost as far as she could see, stretched the lights of the holiday season. At each intersection was a great star, held up apparently by its four chains of lights. For a moment it held her spellbound. Then, she saw instead, a great castle upon a wooded hillside. Below, a splendid old bridge with fireworks bursting from it on all sides. Was there a sight anywhere in all the world that could compare with it? That was the old. This highway of stars, the new. She had set her feet upon the new road now. She had made her choice. Without another word, Dr. Kirton started the car down toward the highway of stars. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions Northern States Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for the Annual Relief Society Conference, August 28-30, 1964 Front row, at the right: Kathryn M. Heiser, chorister; Lucretia Nadle, Supervisor. Second row, right to left, mission board members: Ira Mae Palmer, Presi- ' dent; Ruby Barton, Counselor; Roberta Miller, Secretary-Treasurer. Counselor Esther Waite was not present when the picture was taken. Seated at the piano: Margaret F. Maxwell, organist. Sister Palmer reports: "A beautiful day of late summer found Relief Society officers and class leaders of the Northern States Mission districts and branches en route to DeKalb, Illinois, for the Annual Relief Society Conference. From the northern parts of Wisconsin to the southern tip of Illinois, and from Iowa, to the west, they came. The theme of the three-day conference was 'Put Your Life in Balance.' The conference was held on the campus of the Northern Illinois University. There was an evening of entertainment, skits, a dissertation on 'Charm,' and a showing of 'The Awakening.' A day was spent in instruction for all officers and class leaders, with special attention being given to teacher training and music. A feature of the conference was a bazaar. Attractive displays were arranged and articles were brought by each branch. Some of these were for display only, and others were for sale. "Saturday evening a lovely dinner was served, with more than 200 present. On the Sabbath Day thoughts were focused on things spiritual. Elder E. A. Nadle, President, Northern States Mission, spoke on the importance of 'Balance,' and the necessity of it in our lives through the gospel cf Jesus Christ. Other speakers were Sister Nadle and past and present members of the mission board. The conference was truly inspirational. Each sister left filled with the spirit of Relief Society and a determination to fill her office to the very best of her ability." 127 Nyssa Stake (Oregon) Social, March 27, 1964 Marian Mathewson, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society, reports that the highlight of this outstanding function was the way in which the purposes of the Relief Society lesson courses were delineated by means of carefully arranged displays. The theology display presented in miniature the organization of the Relief Society in 1842, with Christ as the central figure in the illustration, bringing the Church, Relief Society, and the home into one complete unit. The visiting teacher department depicted the beautiful thought that as the lighthouse guides the men of the sea, so the visiting teachers illuminate the minds of women. For the work meeting (photograph not included), lovely articles were displayed, each ward and branch being assigned to make and exhibit specific articles, so that there was an effective variety and no duplications. The literature department brought to view the New World and the American dream. The social science display represented Church government and Church leadership consisting of men called of God. The music department displayed the Tabernacle organ, made to scale, and in front of it, the choir seats were occupied by Singing Mothers dressed in white blouses and dark skirts. At the close of the social, each guest was given a copy of the March 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. FEBRUARY 1965 Inglewood Stake (California) Stake Board Holds Social on Theme "There Will Your Heart Be Also," April 15, 1964 Front row, left to right: Delores Porter, visiting teacher message leader; Ruby Bates, Second Counselor; Beth Stallman, President; LaVerl Bennett, chorister; Ruth Jones, social science class leader; Sue Bateman, SecretaryTreasurer; Lucille Peel, organist. Back row, left to right: Edith Pew, Magazine representative; Margaret Smith, First Counselor; Ila Young, work meeting leader; Lula Howard, theology class leader. Myrtle Petrie, literature class leader, was not present when the picture was taken. Sister Stallman reports: "On April 15, 1964, Inglewood Stake held a social with the theme 'There Will Your Heart. Be Also." A dramatization of the theme was beautifully presented, with lovely music preceding and following. Beautiful displays of lessons, all types of handwork, arts, and crafts demonstrations were much enjoyed in the cultural hall. Two nonmembers ordered The Relief Society Magazine after the display. We were delighted with the success and wonderful comments on this event." Cumorah Stake (New York) Visiting Teacher Luncheon May 23, 1964 Outside row, at the left, left to right: Margaret Stoner, Magazine representative; Verna C. Harris, President, Cumorah Stake Relief Society; sixth from the left: Marilyn Wright, Work Counselor; eighth from the left: President Bryant W. Rossiter, Cumorah Stake. Sister Harris reports: "The luncheon was a very nice affair, being a smorgasbord, provided by the Relief Societies of the stake. There was an interesting variety of foods. The film strip "The Awakening' was enjoyed by those present. "We have been making an increased effort to reach more of our scattered membership through the visiting teacher program this year, and we feel rewarded by the results." Apia Stake (Samoa) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Concert at Social, May 23, 1964 Third from the left in the front row: Shirla Bingham, accompanist; second row, at the left: Peaulele Le'apai, Second Counselor; third from the left: Claudia Harris, narrator of the script which was read to introduce the musical numbers; fourth from the right, in the back row: Selina Mann, President, Apia Stake Relief Society; fifth from the right: Helen Rivers, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Mann submits a report of this outstanding event, composed by Marjorie C. Fisher, who directed the chorus and wrote the script to accompany the musical numbers: "The stake Relief Society presidency and board decided to make this event a complete stake function and organized an inter-faith social. The Relief Societies of the stake invited non-member friends to the concert, which was followed by the recent film on the message of the visiting teachers, followed by a cake sale. Each ward was asked to display in a booth the many facets of the Relief Society program. The singing was beautiful. Many people were impressed by the voices of the wonderful Samoan mothers. They sang sacred, secular, and love songs, and also several trios and sextettes. In the picture the mothers are dressed in the Samoan national costume, called the 'pulutasi,' which can be made of any fabric, but consists of two pieces — a top dress over a long 'lavalava.' The top was white and the 'lavalava' black. The corsages worn by the sisters are brilliant red-orange closed hibiscus. These flowers never open, and resemble a bellshaped rosebud. Each flower was arranged on a background of fern fronds." 130 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 13) FEBRUARY 1965 Franklin Stake (Idaho) Organists and Choristers Who Participated in Singing Mothers Festival May 14, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Naomi N. Christensen; Norine C. Bingham, First Counselor, Franklin Stake Relief Society; Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society; Jennie S. Nuffer, President, Franklin Stake Relief Society; Reva W. Wilson, Second Counselor; Louie M. Cole, narrator for the program; Lourena C. Benson; Lois J. Atkinson, stake organist; Mildred L. Oliverson, stake chorister. Second row, standing, left to right: Martha T. Seeley; Norma C. Crabtree; Constance H. Davis; Ina D. Bingham; Vaudis A. Sharp; Afton H. Long; Edrus C. Larsen; Bonna Lu D. Pack; Jenna Vee B. Jensen; Fern S. Porter; Vera G. Merrill; Marian M. Bodily. Back row, standing, left to right: Armina S. Bright; Grace L. Robinson; Mardene H. Sparrow; Marie H. Owen; Donna G. Fonnesbeck; Vera K. Cole. Sister Nuffer reports: 'As an outgrowth of ward participation at stake leadership meetings, and to celebrate the Relief Society anniversary, a large and appreciative audience gathered to hear the Music Festival given by the Singing Mothers of the eleven wards of Franklin Stake. A varied program was presented, with each ward group singing one number, and the combined group of 220 Singing Mothers sang two numbers. Sister Florence J. Madsen, a special guest, led the combined group in 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments,' and stake chorister Mildred L. Oliverson led the group in "The Lord's Prayer, by Gates. Lois J. Atkinson, stake organist, and Lourena C. Benson were the accompanists for the combined group. The lovely narration was composed and narrated by Louie M. Cole of the stake board." Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Art, Sculpture, and Flower Show July 31, 1964 Pauline Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Big Horn Stake Relief Society held an Art, Sculpture, and Flower Show in Byron, July 31, 1964. The paintings were done by men and women in the Big Horn Basin, members and nonmembers, as well. It was wonderful the way people responded to this show. Each person was privileged to exhibit one painting in each category (oil, water color, and pencil). "The sisters of Relief Society responded willingly to the flower show also. This was the second exhibit of this kind, and the flower arrangements were better than those of the first exhibit. Three hundred or more people from all over the Basin came to see the exhibit. We had homemade candy and carmel corn to sell, and there were booths where demonstrations were given on corsage making and flower arranging. These demonstrations were a big success." —, Stake (Illinois) Three Ward Relief Societies Hold Friendship Party September 28, 1964 Three ward Relief Society presidents are seen displaying some of the items exhibited at the Friendship Party, left to right: Naomi Graves, North Shore Second Ward; Lilly Jesperson, North Shore First Ward; Lorna Rubow, Logan Square Ward. Jasmine R. Edmunds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: "Display tables had been prepared, showing the various activities and study courses of Relief Society. The very effective program included songs by the Singing Mothers of the three participating wards. The program was designed to encourage attendance at Relief Society meetings, and especially emphasized attendance of Latter-day Saint women and their friends. It was a highly successful function. "Other wards in the stake gave parties in their own areas. Because of the distances in our stake, the stake board felt that this plan would make it possible for more nonactive women to participate by attending the Friendship — All of the ward parties seemed to be well attended and were successful." 132 A al =e Elder Roy Ww. Doxey Lesson 64 — The Prophecy on Wars Meeting, May 1965 at and the Tares and to Objective: To understand the parable of the Whe some prophecies given by Joseph Smith conce and subsequent world events that Ww INTRODUCTION The two revelations for study in this lesson were received in the month of December 1832. Many revealed that troublous times were ahead for the people of this dispensation, if they did not repent. 4:11-17, 35; 5:15- 90; 29:14-21; 45:26-44.) SECTION 86 Early in December of 1832, Joseph Smith received a revelation explaining the parable of the lation clarified, in some respects, the New Testament recording of this parable. (Matt. 13:24-30, 37-43.) The New Testament gays that the Lord ls the sower of the wheat, while the revelation refers to the apostles as the sowers. Because this parable is to have its fulfillment in the present generation, it is probable that the 134 American Civi s a true pro latter fact is the apostles W of taking the g Since th eat is sown while, in oppositio Satan an the tares. Be fulfilled. E restoration 0 seed is again d will not perde of wheat to ling up the is ripe, an mit the ten be destroy tares until the harvest (Text: Doctrine and ts, Sections g6 and 87) this, notwithstanding the angels "are ready and waiting to be sent forth to reap down the fields" (Ibid., verse 5). A MODERN PROPHET SPEAKS At a testimony meeting of Salt Lake temple workers in Brigham City, Utah, June 24, 1894, President Wilford Woodruff related some events of the last days which he had received by vision. The allusion to the "angels of destruction" and "the wheat and the tares'' emphasizes the message of Section 86.... 1 want to ask this congregation a question: When I have the vision of the night opened continually before my eyes, and can see the mighty judgments that are about to be poured out upon this world, when I know these things are true, and are at the door of Jew and Gentile; while I know they are true and while I am holding this position before God and this world, can I withhold my voice from lifting up a warning to this people, and to the nations of the earth? I may never meet with this people again; I. Cannot tell how that may be. But while I live and see these things continually before my eyes I shall raise my warning voice. Now, the question I wanted to ask you is this: We have fourteen [hundred] million people on this earth, and over them all there hangs a cloud of darkness almost entirely upon their shoulders. Can you tell me where the people are who will be shielded and protected from these calamities and judgments which are even now at our doors? I'll tell you. The Priesthood of God who honor their priesthood, and who are worthy of their blessings are the only ones who shall have this safety and protection. No other people have a right to be shielded from these judgments. They are at our very doors; not even this people will escape them entirely. They will come down like the judgments: of Sodom and Gomorrah. And none but the _ priesthood will be safe from their fury. LESSON DEPARTMENT God has held the angels of destruction for many years, lest they should reap down the wheat with the tares. But I want to tell you now, that those angels have left the portals of heaven, and they stand over this people and this nation now, and are hovering over the earth waiting to pour out the judgments. And from this very day they shall be poured out. Calamities and troubles are increasing in the earth, and there is a meaning to these things. Remember this, and reflect upon these matters. If you do your duty, and I do my duty, we'll have protection, and shall pass through the afflictions in peace and in safety. Read the scriptures and the revelations. They will tell you about all these things. Great changes are at our doors. The next twenty years will see mighty changes among the nations of the earth. You will live to see these things, whether I do or not. I have felt oppressed with the weight of these matters and I felt I must speak of them here. It's by the power of the Gospel that we shall escape (The Young Woman's Journal, Vol. V, 1894, pp. 512-513). Mighty changes have occurred on the earth beginning with World War I, which began twenty years later. Governments -have changed, and unrest among the nations has increased. Conflicts among peoples and warfare have taken their toll. Advances in technology, and better means of destroying men have been devised. Natural calamities have also been evident since that time. GREAT PROMISES Several important truths are given in closing verses 8 to 11 of Section 86. These truths emphasize the need for Latter-day Saints to live in accordance with their lineage and the promises that the Lord has made to them. The saints have the privilege of being saviors to the house of 135 FEBRUARY 1965 Israel through the ministrations of the Priesthood of which they are lawful heirs through their fathers. Sometimes one might think that the Israel lineage of the Latter-day Saints is only figurative, but this revelation says that we are lawful heirs to the Priesthood "according to the flesh" (verse 9) — literal descendants of the patriarchs to whom the promises were made that their descendants would be custodians of the gospel and the Priesthood through the ages. (Abraham 2:8-11.) The Lord assures us that these promises are to remain with his chosen people in the last days in order that the restitution of all things spoken of by the prophets may be fulfilled for the benefit of the world. No other people upon this earth have such a great destiny. There will probably be some who will not fulfill their part of that destiny, but this latter-day work will not be stopped. PROPHECY ON WAR Ever mindful of world events, due, in part, to the Angel Moroni's prophecy that the words of the prophets concerning the last days were about to be fulfilled (Joseph Smith 2:36-41), the Prophet recorded some events which to him indicated that these were the last days. Among these writings is this introduction to Section 87: Appearances of troubles among the nations became more visible this season than they had previously been since the Church began her journey out of the wilderness. The ravages of the cholera were frightful in almost all the large cities on the globe. The plague broke out in India, while the United States, amid all her pomp and 136 greatness, was threatened with immediate dissolution. The people of South Carolina, in convention assembled (in November), passed ordinances, declaring their state a free and independent nation; and appointed Thursday, the 31st day of January, 1833, as the day of humiliation and prayer, to implore Almighty God to vouchsafe His blessings, and restore liberty and happiness within their borders. President Jackson issued his proclamation against this rebellion, called out a force sufficient to quell it, and implored the blessings of God to assist the nation to extricate itself from the horrors of the approaching and solemn crisis. On Christmas day [1832], I received the following revelation and prophecy on war (DHC 1:301; Section 87 follows.) 5 With the foregoing prophecies before him, and conditions shaping up in the world that gave promise of the fulfillment of the Lord's word to this generation, the Prophet was deeply concerned about conditions in the United States. One year before receiving this revelation on war (Section 87), these two significant prophecies heralded the great American Civil War: Ye hear of wars in far countries, and you say that there will soon be great wars in far countries, but ye know not the hearts of men in your own land (D&C 38:29). The second prophecy is more specific relative to conditions in the United States. Ye hear of wars in foreign lands; but, behold, I say unto you; they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years henee ye shall hear of wars in your own Jands (Ibid., 45:63). Among the numerous prophecies given by Joseph Smith, the one on war in the last days stands out as strong evidence that he possessed the prophetic gift. Called to give the Lord's word to this generation (Jbid., 5:10), he spoke fearlessly of the judgments of the last days. The following main essentials of Section 87 about the American Civil War support the Prophet's calling: (1) The wars of the last days would commence with the rebellion of South Carolina. (2) This war would terminate in the death and misery of many souls. (3) The Southern States would be divided against the Northern States. (4) Slaves would rise up against their masters and be disciplined for war. Other elements of the prophecy relating to subsequent events will be considered also. In addition to the foregoing and also the two warnings given before December 25, 1832 (Ibid., 38:29; 45:63), the Prophet wrote to N. C. Seaton, Esq., editor of a paper in Rochester, New York, on January 4, 1833: And now I am prepared to say by the authority of Jesus Christ,. That not many years shall pass away before the United States shall present such a scene of bloodshed as has not a parallel in the history of our nation... (DHC 1:315). DATES AND CONDITIONS. In the preceding section the Prophet's journal is quoted as an introduction to Section 87. In that statement of conditions in the United States and in other parts of the world, he noted that South Carolina had declared itself independent and that President Andrew Jackson had taken steps to quell that rebellion. What brought about that situation in South Carolina? Several LESSON DEPARTMENT years before 1832, discontent was manifest in the South over Federal tariff laws which protected the industrialists of the North while the Southern planters suffered. The tariff act of 1828 was called a tariff of abomination in the South, and the one of 1832 was also considered with equal or greater abhorrence. This discontent led South Carolina to favor the nullification of the Federal tariff laws, and, if necessary, to withdraw from the Union. President Jackson issued his Proclamation on Nullification on December 10, 1832, which denied to any State the power to secede from the Union. Although South Carolina appealed to the other states for support, it was not forthcoming. Virginia and Georgia were sympathetic to the cause, but would do nothing for South Carolina. (See HESSELTINE, WILLIAM B.: The South in American History, page 198.) Although a crisis had developed in the Nation, the ingredients to bring about an armed conflitt between the States were not there. New tariff legislation in 1833 indicated a conciliatory attitude on the part of the South and the North. In another section of the Doctrine and Covenants, dated the same day as Section 87, the Prophet recorded: I prophesy, in the name of the Lord God, that the commencement of the difficulties which will cause much bloodshed' previous to the coming of the Son of Man. Will be in South Carolina. It may probably arise through the slave question. This a voice declared to me, while I was praying earnestly on the subjeet, December 25th; 1832 (D&C 130:12-13). 137 FEBRUARY 1965 It is important to note that the Prophet prophesied that the American Civil War would probably begin through the slave question, not because of it, -but that slavery would be a contributing cause. Much has been written on the cause of the Civil War. While some have advocated the single cause of slavery, others have denied this and some have suggested that slavery was only the surface issue, while deeper causes lay at its origin. (See RozwENEc, EpwIn C., ed.: Slavery as a Cause of the Civil War, 1949.) Although received in 1832, the prophecy was not published until 1851 in the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price. The revelation, however, was well known among the members of _ the Church and, according to some of the apostles, it was used in missionary work. Elder Wilford Woodruff said that he and many others had a copy of the revelation twenty-five years before the rebellion. (Journal of Discourses 14:2.) There were few Americans, in 1851, who believed that the Civil War was imminent, and in 1832 it was even farther from their minds. HISTORY IS PROPHESY REVERSED South Carolina rebelled against the Federal Government and the actual war commenced on April 12, 1861, with the firing upon the Northern-held Fort Sumter in Charleston harbor. The war pitted twenty-two Northern States against eleven Southern States. (D&C 87:1-3.) Misery and death stalked the land in that ferocious war. No human being, 138 except the Lord's Prophet, knew the tremendous toll of lives and destruction of property that would result. The estimated cost of that war was eight billion dollars, a huge sum in that day. The Southern States did call upon Great Britain for aid, but that nation did not enter the conflict. However, she did permit Southern cruisers to be fitted out in her shipyards, resulting in the payment of $15,500,000 damage claim to the Union after the War. The South also called for aid from France and Spain, but none was granted. BEGINNING OF MODERN WARS The prophecy on war is about wars. (D&C 87:1.) The Civil War began a train of wars and calamities on the earth. And the time will come that war will be poured out upon all nations, beginning at this place.... And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and with famine, and plague and earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations (Verses 2, 6). Since the Civil War, the nations of the earth have suffered famine, plague, earthquakes, and wars. The remarkable fulfillment of this prophecy is the fact that a year has not passed since 1861 when the nations have been free of internal or external wars. The geographical impact of war was felt in World War I in answer to the call upon other nations by Great Britain to defend herself and her allies. (Verse 3.) Following verse 3 of Section 87, it seems that the order of events of the remaining part of the prophecy is about the postCivil War period, which would culminate in the "end of all nations." CONCLUSION Joseph Smith was ordained to give the Lord's word to this dispensation. (D&C 5:10.) He predicted many details concerning the American Civil War. History has proved him a foreteller of these events. War and other calamities were to be poured out upon all nations after the Civil War. In fact, peace was to be taken from the earth in our dispensation. (Ibid., 1:35.) Do the » bye a) 8 wd of | whe red in their crypt tha * LESSON DEPARTMENT wars and calamities since that time attest to the fact that peace has been taken from the earth? Is the world ready or near-ready for the wheat to be gathered and the tares to be burned as predict-. Ed? QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Relate the parable of the Wheat and the Tares with the application given to it by President Wilford Woodruff. 2. Of what value to you is the parable of the Wheat and the Tares? 3. In what way, according to Section 86:8-11, are the Latter-day Saints destined to be a great people? 4. Why did Joseph Smith, in December 1832, inquire of the Lord concerning events of the world? 5. Name five points made in the first three verses of Section 87 about the American Civil War., ore dT Se d sweetly co in the grea - Is ther ese le of life' nd ane - A} that sweetly bend eunder insects lie ni, rrowed soul, and, birds and flo a om wasted ho —. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 64 — "I, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye Do What | Say; But When Ye Do Not What | Say, Ye Have No Promise' (D&C 82:10). For First Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To show that only through obedience to the Lord's laws will promised blessings come. Tuis statement in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 82, verse 10, is an expression of one of the most fundamental of all divine truths. The promises given to us by our Father in heaven are immutable. They are based upon divine law and, if we are obedient to the conditions he requires of us, these promises will be fulfilled completely and absolutely. The key to receiving the blessings of the Lord's promise to us is obedience. We are told that, "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D&C 130:20-21). Obedience is heaven's first law. It is the foundation of all success and all accomplishment. It is the doorway that leads to salvation. 140 Our third Article of Faith tells us that through the atonement of Christ all mankind may be saved, but exaltation is conditioned on obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. One of the interesting aspects of obedience is that most of us unhesitatingly recognize and seek to obey natural laws. For example, we use the power of electricity to heat and light our homes, run our appliances, and to provide us with many varied conveniences. We do this by complying with the laws through which electricity operates; yet, in respect to the laws which govern spiritual blessings, often, because we do not fully understand them, or because the results of obedience to them may not be so direct or immediate, we sometimes question or hesitate. Nevertheless, these spiritual laws are just as real and certain as are the laws of nature. Every blessing, temporal or spiritual, is firmly based on law and obedience to it. Obedience, like faith, is a source of power. Through obedience we demonstrate our maturity and give concrete evidence of our humility and teachablenegs, An impressive example of the power of obedience in relationship to humility and self-discipline, is found in the Old Testament, in the story of Naaman, a captain in the Syrian army. Naaman was a great and honorable man who was afflicted with leprosy. He learned of the Prophet Elisha who, through God's power, could heal this dread disease. Accordingly, the captain went to Elisha and sought his blessings. The prophet told Naaman to go and wash in the Jordan River Seven times and his flesh would be made whole. The mighty Syrjan was disappointed in these simple instructions. He had expected that Elisha would require him to do something more dramatic. Whereupon, his servants spoke to Naaman Saying, "My father, if the prophet had bid LESSON DEPARTMENT thee do some great — thing, wouldest thou not have done it? How much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean?" Naaman then obeyed Elisha and dipped himself seven times in the river Jordan and he was healed. (II Kings 5:1-14.) This story illustrates the power of obedience, Through obedience, not only do we open the doorway to the Lord's blessings but also we demonstrate our love for him. The Savior said, "He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me... And I will love him, and will manifest myself to him" (John 14:- 21). Jesus also promised us, "Tf ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love..." (John 15:10). Out of his gracious love for us our Father in heaven has given us laws and commandments which, if obeyed, assure us of his love, guidance, and blessings. Truly the Lord is bound if we do what he says, but if we do not what he says, we have no promise. On Growing Old Grace Barker Wilson The lengthened shadow of my life Has fallen in contented places: Security, no inward strife, Dear friends, familiar faces; Fulfillment in my family Of hopes and dreams left unperfected; As | grow old it seems to me More faith and love from heaven reflected. 141 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 4 — Family Relationships (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) Objective: For Second Meeting, April 1965 To motivate practices which may improve the quality of family relationships and make them more rewarding. INTRODUCTION In times past the art of homemaking has often been belittled. It is now usually respected as a career requiring high intelligence, devotion, and a special sensitivity to the physical, the social, and the emotional needs of others. There are many situations in which the wife and the mother may use her special sensitivity, if she wishes to improve the quality of family relationships and thus make them more rewarding. This lesson will be concerned with examples and questions which should suggest practical activities for this improvement, and will refer only briefly to the spiritual aspects of these relationships as divinely ordained. "THEY TWAIN SHALL BE ONE FLESH" (Mark 10:8) Therefore shall a' man leave' his father and his mother, and shall cleave +42 unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh (Genesis 2:24). There are many aspects of the oneness which this scripture implies. The relationship of man to wife is an intimate one. Together they assist in the divine purpose of creation by bringing spirit children into mortality. There should be a oneness of viewpoint as to the kind of environment to which the new child is entitled. There should be one-_ ness of purpose as together they transform roof and walls of a house into a home. Money expended for living expenses, for family activities, for home comforts, should be of joint interest. The experiences of family living, health, illness, schooling, and the various disciplines of child guidance should all be of mutual concern. In addition to the more obvious aspects of the parent to parent relationship, husband and wife should establish a oneness of spirit which will lead to a natural and genuine acknowledgment of the successes of each other. Each should rejoice in the worthy attainments of the other and, where possible, offer aid in these accomplishments. According to gospel teachings, this oneness may, under certain specified conditions, continue throughout eternity. In order to have this condition a happy expectation, the relationship here and now must be a happy one. POSITION OF THE HUSBAND In the gospel plan, the Priesthood holder is patriarch in his home. This means that the father who holds the Melchizedek Priesthood has the right and authority to counsel and to bless his wife and children. He may administer, with this same divine authority, to those of his household who are ill or otherwise afflicted. Where does the wife fit into this picture of paternal responsibility and privilege? She shares in the blessings of the Priesthood. She should be grateful that her husband is worthy to be a Priesthood holder, and she should help her children to appreciate this fact. She sometimes may be the first to suggest that he exercise his Priesthood authority in behalf of family members, through particular counsels and through administration. With regard to his relationship to his wife, the husband should remember what might be known as the "presidency principle." The president does preside and has a right to receive inspiration concerning decisions relating to LESSON DEPARTMENT the organization, the area of his stewardship. But he should consult his counselors when decisions are to be made relating to the organization, and they all should strive to reach an agreement. Similarly, a man should think of his wife as one who also has had great experience, has knowledge and wisdom. He should remember that she stands beside him to help him, to work with him as a member of a partnership. In his relationships with his wife and children, a holder of the Priesthood should do everything he can to help them fulfill the destiny designed for them by our Heavenly Father. He is sensitive to their feelings, their abilities, their problems. He seeks to help them grow intellectually, emotionally, socially, and spiritually. COOPERATIVE EFFORT We often hear of the husband referred to as the "head of the house" and the wife as the "heart of the home." While the husband leads out in righteousness in all affairs of family matters, the wife shares responsibility for establishing the spiritual and emotional climate of the home. Warmth, love, and patience should be among the ingredients involved. The father presides at the table, at prayers, and gives general directions relating to family affairs. The wife and the children should sustain him as the head of the household and support him in the discharge of his duties. They should aid him in exercising the rights and_ privileges which the wisdom of heaven has bestowed upon the head of the home. The Presidents of the Church have given us much wise counsel 143 FEBRUARY 1965 relative to the home. The following excerpts are relevant to this lesson:... It is for the husband to learn how to gather around his family the comforts of life.... It is the calling of the wife and mother to know what to do with everything that is brought into the house, laboring to make her home desirable to her husband and children, making herself~an Eve in the midst of a little paradise of her own creating, securing her husband's love and confidence, and tying her offspring to herself, with a love that is stronger than death, for an everlasting inheritance (Young, Brigham: Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, page 28).... There is no great thing that man or woman can do to keep love alive and healthy, but there are many little things given daily, and, if possible, hourly —- a kind word, a courteous act, a smile, an endearing term, a sparkle in the eye, an unexpected service, a birthday greeting, a remembering of the wedding anniversary — these and a hundred other seemingly insignificant deeds and expressions are the food upon which love _ thrives (McKay, David O.: Home Memories, page 221). Relief Society sisters are generally familiar with the Prophet Joseph Smith's counsel to the early members of the Society. He said:.... Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur — if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness (DHC IV, pp. 606-607). IMPORTANCE OF COMMUNICATION Marriage counselors tell us that keeping the channel of com- 144 munication in "good repair" is of prime importance in establishing and maintaining happy family relationships. To establish a channel of communication and to keep it operating successfully, means that a person is able to transfer to another, freely and honestly, how he thinks and how he feels about any situation. This "channel" applies to all angles of family relationship and to all family members who are old enough to interpret attitudes and to understand speech. It involves, however, good judgment, emotional discipline, and the willingness to cooperate and to compromise. Lack of that understanding which comes from adequate communication between husband and wife, can sometimes "break" a home. When — communication between husband and wife is lacking, numerous small, but important services are left undone, which, if done, would enrich the relationship. Wives often expect husbands to know intuitively what should be done. (Some husbands are not famous for their intuition.) Children also suffer when communication lines are not in operation. Complaints from children similar to the following are common, "But I didn't know mother wanted to have the garage closed." "But mother didn't say that company was coming and she would like my room to be especially neat." Small irritations and large misunderstandings may be lessened or completely removed where communication is good. APPLICATION EXAMPLE Husband and wife discussing New Year's resolutions: Wife: Ours is a happy marriage, yet I am sure there are some things you -wish were different. What in our relationship would you like most to have changed? Husband: I think, my dear, I'd appreciate your being ready on time, more than anything else. We're too often late for our appointments. Wife: All right, I'll make a special effort not to be late. I'll start getting ready earlier. Husband: And what would you like me to do — differently? Wife: I'd like you to speak more gently, more appreciatively of me in public. At home, our relationship is almost perfect. But, sometimes, in public, you surprise me by being less courteous and gentle than you are at home. Husband: I wasn't aware of it. I'll try. A few months later: Wife: I loved the things you said at the party last night — about me. Husband: I meant every word of it. Wife: By the way, did you notice, I was ready on time! Husband: You really were and it was wonderful! CONSTANCY President George H. Brimhall of Brigham Young University once stated that a happy home depended upon three C's — constant courtship, constant compromise, and marital constancy. Perhaps no factor of the husband-wife relationship is more important in building and maintaining a stable home than that of constancy. It is the responsibility of each Latter-day Saint mother to impress this gospel teaching upon her children. Thou shalt love thy wife with all thy heart, and shalt cleave unto her and none else (D&C 42:22). Although this quotation is intended specifically for the husband, it applies with equal import to the wife. Where there are conLESSON DEPARTMENT stancy, appreciation, and understanding between parents, and between parents and children, in the home, that home will be a happy and stable one. Where constancy and genuine affection form the bond between man and wife, the winds of fate may blow, but "to no avail." FOR DOING: Since love is nourished by the many small, often seemingly insignificant acts of kindness and appreciation, the following concrete suggestions are for here and now, to strengthen the tie between husband and wife. Words that welcome: "So good to have you home!" "It's been such a hot day, why don't you relax a few minutes before dinner?" "Now that you're here, the home is complete." "We've been waiting for you — the children and I." Words that bind: 1. Short notes tucked into the suitcase of a husband leaving for a brief trip saying something like this: "We miss you — your garden (if he gardens) and I." 2. An occasional note mailed or placed where the husband will be sure to find it, telling him how well he handled a certain situation, or telling him how much his love means to you. (People never get too old to want appreciation and love.) 3. Pin a note to one of a "batch" of freshly ironed shirts saying: "A lot of work but you're worth it." (Make further suggestions.) FOR DISCUSSING Suggest and discuss small, thoughtful acts that may strengthen the relationship between mother and children. 145 LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 8 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature—Part IV For Third Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To show how literature recognizes the greater difficulty in seeing faults in oneself than of Tue simple experiment of looking at oneself in a mirror illustrates the blindness of self-love. Note how impossible it is to focus on anything else while you are looking at yourself. All of the selections which are grouped under this lesson present people who peer at the world about them through the cataracts of self-absorption. Like very small children who play in groups but not really together because they have not yet learned how to share, they are the truly lonely. In the cramped world of their individual ego there is room for only one. Effective participation — which suggests seeing oneself as part of a larger whole—is impossible. In Edward Rowland Sill's (1841- 1887) "Opportunity," for instance, note how the "craven's" estimate of his weapon is totally 146 seeing them in other people. Warped by the envy he feels for the prince's "'blue blade"': This I beheld, or dreamed it in a dream: There spread a cloud of dust along a plain; And underneath the cloud, or in it, raged A furious battle, and men yelled, and swords Shocked upon swords and shields. A prince's banner Wavered, then staggered backward, hemmed by foes. A craven hung along the battle's edge And thought, "Had I a sword of keener steel— That blue blade that the king's son bears—but this Blunt thing—!" He snapt and flung it from his hand, And, lowering, crept away and left the field. Then came the king's son, wounded, sore bestead, And weaponless, and saw the broken sword, Hilt-buried in the dry and trodden sand, And ran and snatched it, and with battle-shout Lifted afresh, he hewed his enemy down, And saved a great cause that heroic day. Blinded by a focus on his own fancied needs, the "craven" is unable to use that which he has and has to retreat. He will never know that the battle was won by his spurned sword, for such a person never thinks his equipment is good enough for him to participate; his retreat is neverending. > "Miniver Cheevy." An even more passive—but equally tragic —condition which can stem from emphasis upon the self is described by Edwin Arlington Robinson (1869-1935) in "Miniver Cheevy." Miniver Cheevy, child of scorn, Grew lean while he assailed the seasons; He wept that he was ever born, And he had reasons. Miniver loved the days of old When swords were bright and steeds were prancing; The vision of a warrior bold Would set him dancing. Miniver sighed for what was not, And dreamed, and rested from his labors; He dreamed of Thebes and Camelot, And Priam's neighbors. Miniver mourned the ripe renown That made so many a name so fragrant; He mourned Romance, now on the town, And Art, a vagrant. Miniver loved the Medici, Albeit he had never seen one; He would have sinned incessantly Could he have been one. LESSON DEPARTMENT Miniver cursed the commonplace And eyed a khaki suit with loathing; He missed the medieval grace Of iron clothing. Miniver scorned the gold he sought, But sore annoyed was he without it; Miniver thought, and thought, and thought, And thought about it. Miniver Cheevy, born too late, Scratched his head and kept on thinking; Miniver coughed, and called it fate, And kept on drinking. At least the coward in "Opportunity" managed to get to "the battle's edge." The Miniver Cheevys never come close to action. Lost in vague identification with time to which distance has lent enchantment, they become adept at explaining why current involvement in the world is unworthy of them. The "good old days" become an excuse and a refuge. It is particularly upsetting to realize that such an attitude is often the curse of the very able. Their difficulty is not inability to react at any level above obvious sense gratification; their temptation is to _ substitute thought for action. Wrapped in illusion, they make less and less contact with reality. Not they, but the world is out of step. Note how the poet's attitude is conveyed through the form of his work as well as its statement. The short, uncomplicated stanzas and jog trot meter would be inappropriate if some profound indictment of mankind were being presented. If the thought-stopped man is tragic, he is also a bit ridiculous. A7 FEBRUARY 1965 "A Queer Heart." Elizabeth Bowen's (1899-—) "A Queer Heart" carries our examination of self-induced blindness several steps further. Mrs. Cadman has not refused to participate. Her life has been a whirl of activity— but always on her own indulgent terms. If Miniver Cheevy is pitiful, Mrs. Cadman is frightening. Her zest can so easily be mistaken for fullness. How carefully the author develops her story. We are immediately attracted to Mrs. Cadman when we see that here is a person who doesn't seem to take herself too seriously. How relaxing it is to meet someone who can smile at herself! What a contrast between the fun-loving Hilda and her fun-hating sister Rosa. It is almost shocking to realize, as we progress in the story and in our understanding of these sisters, that they are equally narrow and self-indulgent. Where plain Rosa has been resentful, pretty Hilda has been thoughtless. At the end of the story, in a sudden glimmer of insight, Hilda realizes that she has helped to make her sister—and her daughter — as they are. The key revelation is her awareness that both she and Rosa have always set their hearts on "things." "The Portable Phonograph." The final story to be considered in this lesson is a modern masterpiece. Written by Walter Van Tilburg Clark (1909-—), "The Portable Phonograph" has been widely praised as an unusually sensitive warning for our time. Everything about this story seems to provide insights which interweave into an artistic whole. 148 The stark, matter-of-fact opening lines are particularly effective: The red sunset with narrow, black cloud strips like threads across it, lay on the curved horizon of the prairie. The air was still and cold, and in it settled the mute darkness and greater cold of night. High in the air there was a wind, for through the veil of the dusk the clouds could be seen gliding rapidly south and changing shapes. A queer sensation of torment, of two-sided, unpredictable nature, arose from the stillness of the earth beneath the violence of the upper air. The basic contrasts presented here are typical of the warning forces which dominate this story. Even its basic themes are in fundamental opposition to one another. The secondary motif— man's desperate hunger for beauty under any circumstance—is countered by the theme of selfinterest which turns even beauty into a possession to be coveted. The plot, in summary, is quite simple: Four men are struggling to survive in a cold prairie-land which is scarred by. The effects of an almost totally destructive war. The men, having reverted to a primitive existence, live in separate caves which are warmed by peat fires. Occasionally they meet to talk and listen to music on an old portable phonograph. Much of the story is given over to a detailed account of one meeting during which they are all moved by listening to a Debussy recording, after which they separate into the night. When the others have left, the owner of the little "culture" that has survived carefully hides his books, records, and phonograph; then he lies down uneasily, a "comfortable piece of lead pipe" in his hand, as the story ends. The full impact of the story is thus kept to the last. This is not just another condemnation of war, nor a prophecy of what man may do to himself if he doesn't "ban the bomb" or set up effective means of negotiating differences. This is an indictment of what man has already done in his refusal to love his neighbor as himself. The horror of this account is that no one's basic nature has changed as a result of the ordeals he has undergone. We are reminded of Jeremiah's despairing description of the people whom the Lord had repeatedly chastized, but to no avail: No man repented him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? Everyone turned to his course as the horse rusheth into the battle (8:6). Unlike Mrs. Cadman, whose momentary insight came too late to help her relationship with others, the characters in "The Portable Phonograph" clearly understood what has happened and why. As Doctor Jenkins says, We are the doddering remnant of a race of mechanical fools. I have saved what I love; the soul of what was good in us is here; perhaps the new ones will make a strong enough beginning not to fail when they become clever. Note that this explanation conveniently shifts responsibility to the "race"—and, obliquely, to technology. Once again, and now in its subtlest form, we meet the blindness of the self-centered life. In identifying with music and LESSON DEPARTMENT literature these men feel that they are focusing outside of themselves. But the phrase "I have saved what I love" gives Doctor Jenkins away. He thinks, as he grasps his lead pipe and waits for one of the men to try and rob him, that he is prepared to die for beauty; but, in reality, he is only defending a few rapidly deteriorating possessions. In the reverence which all lavish on the books and music there is ritual without religion. In the comment that "we need the absolute if we are to keep a grasp on anything" there is an echo of a better day, but such a suggestion is quickly shouted down as being "no earthly good." We realize now why the author has included no women among the survivors. The "new ones" whom Doctor Jenkins takes for granted simply cannot come from such people. This is not Eden—a be- - ginning—but Armageddon—the end. Nothing can save a world composed of single units. Selflove is hopelessly sterile. If the selections we have been considering in this lesson seem to present various kinds of self-focus, there is one ingredient that is common to them all—impotence. No one enamored of himself grows or develops. He can't overcome weaknesses when he refuses to see them or profit by mistakes that he won't recognize. His lonely fate is graphically described by Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832), the English novelist and poet, in his "Lay of the Last Minstrel": The wretch, concentred all in self, Living, shall forfeit fair renown, And, doubly dying, shall go down 149 FEBRUARY 1965 To the vile dust from whence he sprung, Unwept, unhonoured, and unsung. Thoughts and Questions For Discussion 1. In "Opportunity" Edward Rowland Sill suggests that what we have may be enough if we are able to use it. What self-centered attitudes besides envy keep us from living up to our potential? 2. How does the opening line of "'Miniver Cheevy" prepare us to understand one of the main problems of this poem? Why is "scorn" less fruitful than "criticism"? / 3. Despite Mrs. Cadman's brief insight, Elizabeth Bowen wants us to realize that the truly self-centered person seldom changes. How does the concluding line of this story show how little Mrs. Cadman really understands her problem? 4. In the light of the warning given in "The Portable Phonograph," how can one keep an interest in any art from degenerating into personal indulgence? Frost-Etched Gladys Hesser Burnham Beautiful upon the grass The silvered frost is taid Like spider web of tangled lace, Intricately made. Shy footprints melt their way across The lawn and try to hide, Before the prying sun can rout Their makers, who abide In secret places of the night To slip away at dawn And leave their telltale mark upon Frost-fretted, dewy lawn. SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 21 — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men For Fourth Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To emphasize the vital role of the function of Church government in bringing about peace on the earth. There are those in the world who say that jealousy, enmity, selfishness in men's hearts will always preclude the establishing of the ideal society known as the kingdom of God. No matter what doubters and _ scoffers say, the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ is to eliminate sin and wickedness from the hearts of men, and so to transform society that peace and good will will prevail on this earth (President David O. McKay, Church Section, January 25, 1964, page 2). Peace and good will are -attitudes of mind. An attitude is a tendency to act in a dependable way in a given situation. Attitudes are learned through a series of experiences which bring about pleasing, satisfying, and desired results. Attitudes grow out of study, human contacts, and associations. They are more than feelings or opinions. They are more accurately revealed in what we do than in what we say. RELIGIOUS ATTITUDES The true religious attitude of an individual is revealed in his activity related to the teachings of the Church. For exdmple, when one -testifies to being a member of the Church and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and that God spoke through Joseph to us, and then the testifier disregards revealed laws given by the Prophet, the strength of the person's testimony is found in his actions, not in his stated word. Jesus found a similar condition among the Jews when he said, "Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me" (Matt. 15:7-8). This applies not only to a specific revelation but to tell- 151 FEBRUARY 1965 ing the truth in all situations, being honest in all one's dealings with God and man, and in every other principle of the good life that has been revealed. OBJECTIVE OF CHURCH GOVERNMENT Church government is designed by divine law to give direction to the lives of human beings so that they may find expression for the fulness of their possibilities. As has been pointed out in other lessons, under divine law' the Church, through the home, has been given a major responsibility of setting the proper example. The parents must translate into action the teachings of the Savior. Under this influence the child begins the development of attitudes that last throughout his life, such as faith in God, acceptance of divine law, and the application of the same in the love of fellow men. A second major responsibility of Church government is so to direct the membership that, as a community, the proper environment is developed. Church and Church service are major factors in this development. An important concern is the temporal welfare of each member. Reducing suffering from hunger or unemployment is only a part of the responsibility. Health, recreation, and education are of equal importance in the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. A third major responsibility is to challenge the intellect of every member of the Church. Spiritual development and __ intellectual growth must go hand in hand. The development of proper atti- 152 tudes for all Church members requires the proper functioning of all three of the above mentioned responsibilities. THE POWER OF ENVIRONMENT In the opening passage of the first of Confucius' Four Books. There is a statement that has a bearing on this discussion: When true knowledge is achieved, then one has sincerity of purpose. When there is sincerity of purpose, then comes rightness of heart. With the rightness of heart, then the personal life can be cultivated. With the cultivation of personal life, the family life may be regulated. When the family life is regulated, then the national life is orderly. And when the national life is orderly, then there is peace in the world. From the Emperor down to the common man, all must regard the cultivation of the personal life as the root or foundation. There is never an orderly super-structure when the foundation is wobbly. There is never a tree whose trunk is slim and weak and whose top branches are well grown. The home is the training ground for the members of the kingdom. If the family performs its function, the basic attitudes toward peace and good will are established. The same motivation as exists in the family must be present in the community of the membership of the Church. With each family functioning according to the divine instruction (D&C 68:25-26), the ward environment would be ideal for the production of love and understanding. The teachings of the Savior are not just for the refreshing of our minds about beautiful ideals. Every principle of the gospel must become a functioning part of the life of each member. The struggle must be one's own. Nobody may do the learning act for another. One cannot obtain wisdom, or learning, or beauty of character as a gift or an inheritance.... Here, as elsewhere, he must perfect himself through his own striving; and he cannot rise above the level of his own accomplishment wrought through his own labor (Bowen, Albert E.: Conference Report, April 5, 1948, page 91). The maturing of the individual is an outcome of experience and association. The tendency to act in a given way is dependent upon how well or how effectively and frequently the principles of the good life have been presented tc the individual. No virtue is practiced without training and understanding. Few persons are honest without the standard of honesty being systematically presented in a positive and unwavering manner. The same is true of chastity, kindness, justice, and loyalty. These are some of the traits which characterized the life of the Savior and that each person must acquire to develop peace and good will in his heart. This is slow, but can be a steady process. THE FUTILITY OF FORCE For thousands of years men have tried to maintain peace through the development of machines of destruction. There has been a constant flow of inventive genius to produce the most destructive instruments of war, from simple hand weapons, such as sharpened stones, swords, axes, and bows and arrows, to the Many uses of the power of the bow or spring to hurl great missiles on the enemy. LESSON DEPARTMENT With the development of explosive power there has developed undreamed of force from explosives, until one blast can destroy a city and hundreds of thousands of human beings. With the growth of such power, fear has filled the hearts of men, Nations are employing their top physical scientists and their wealth to produce more effective and accurate means of destruction. Each great political power watches with envy the triumph in this field of the other nations. A major result of the power race is the increase of suspicion, hatred, and enmity among nations and in the hearts of all the people. UNDERSTANDING. OUR NEIGHBORS There is a gleam of hope in the power of struggle of nations found in the technical developments that bring people closer together physically. Now man can circle the globe in hours. There are no protective walls in the form of mountains or oceans. We are close neighbors to any and all of the peoples of the earth. We must learn more about them. Understanding our neighbors opens the way for friendly relations. The more friendly the people, the greater the possibility for peace. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has approximately twelve thousand missionaries, mostly young men and women, teaching the principles of righteousness and peaceable understanding to the people of the world. Theirs is an unselfish effort to show people the only way to live happily together upon this earth. They are demonstrating by their teachings and practice 153 FEBRUARY 1965 the value of love in the lives of human beings — showing that "the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (Gal. 5:22-23). They (the missionaries) need the support of the home community to illustrate the truths of their teachings. They need every Latter-day Saint family to demonstrate the effectiveness of love of God and love of fellow men. DIVINE LAW THE GUIDE TO PEACE The government of God, which is the operation of divine law, is the only way to establish peace and good will in the hearts of men. There is no other way. Peace is the product of a clear conscience, of reason and intelligence, and of faith in God and an understanding of man's relationship to him. It is a result of the concerted effort of and the intent of the best performance of the minds of men. Peace will come when the leadership of this world and the people in it are willing to recognize God's plan and work harder, sacrifice more, and use all their resources for the development of his plan. Peace can come about when all people are concerned as much about the welfare of others as they are about themselves. It can happen when all men let the motive of service to others be the impelling drive in the performance of their professions. THE PRINCE OF PEACE Peace is not the easy way of life. It is the way of life that is directed by the pattern that Jesus gave us. "Greater love hath 154 no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). Christ's joy and glory came in using his talents, experience, and power for the welfare and improvement of mankind. When he performed a miracle, he advised the beneficiary to go his way and tell no one what had happened. In meeting the opposition he did not use force. He could have called legions of angels to protect him but he did not. He met force with love and kindness. He rebuked Peter when he smote off the ear of the soldier who was about to take the Christ a prisoner. Then he restored the ear to the wounded man. He always did good to those who despitefully used or abused him. Jesus went out to find those who were weary and sick at heart, and gave them courage, healing their broken parts, and counseling them to love God and love their fellow men. The divine law provides the necessary direction for obtaining perfection. Perfection is the goal of man as designed by the Creator. In Adam's time, and also in the time of Enoch, and while Jesus was upon the earth, and at the time recorded in 4 Nephi, those near the source of divine instruction obtained a degree of perfection. They were taught correct principles and, with freedom of choice made with full knowledge, they were able to make right decisions. True virtue (knowing right from wrong and choosing the right) existed. In each generation referred to, the off-balance in conduct came when deception, greed, covetousness, selfishness, or other human weaknesses distorted their knowl- edge, their reason, and their faith, and then the people made their decisions influenced by their degree of unrighteousness. In these conditions the love of God and love of fellow men, so basic to peace and good will, are lost. SUMMARY Let us return now to the basic point of our lessons for the past three years — divine law and Church government. Our effort has been to bring to you a discussion of divine law and its function in Church' government through the Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man. The purpose of the government of the Church is to fulfill the objective of the Creator, "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). The mission of Jesus Christ to this earth established the pattern by which the objective of God can be realized. His pattern of life, his motivation in all his activity on this earth was demonstrated in the first and great commandment, "... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two LESSON DEPARTMENT commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matt. 22:37- 40). As the Savior was about to leave this world he said to his disciples, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you..." (John 14:27). His peace came from knowing he had filled to the fulness the will of the Father in his (Christ's) service to mankind. The love he had for his Father was demonstrated in the good he did for his fellow men. How often he said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." If we would know his peace, we must follow in his footsteps. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the evidence of a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ? 2. What is the meaning of "... Their heart is far from me," as quoted in Matt. 15:7-8? 3. To what extent is Church government responsible for the community environment of its members? 4. How important is the family influence in shaping worthy members of the kingdom? 5. How important is love in developing peace in the hearts of men? 6. What part does divine law play in the development of peace? REFERENCES New Testament, Matthew, Chapters 22, 24: John, Chapters 14, 15. Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 24; Appendix 24, page 525. 155 156 Tomorrow Today Ruth H. Chadwick You came — An opal shaft Before my window pane — No longer dreamed Tomorrow, but Today. Gourmet Baby Vesta N. Fairbairn We have no eating problem With our child; By each new taste he's tempted And beguiled. He'll drink his milk from bottle Or from cup. He takes his cereal by spoon And slurps it up. Whatever the food that we add To his diet He's happy to put in his mouth And to try it. Bananas, pears, and peaches, Shredded meats, And carrots, squash, and peas Are things he eats. And to these basic foods He adds his own— Papers, pebbles, perfume, The puppy's bone. Gifts for Everyday Catherine B. Bowles There are corners in the heart Where sweet memories live— Little tokens of affection That loved ones give. A bond of understanding, A remembered word of cheer— Little beams of sunshine Given by someone dear. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 5 80 Lo PESERET-[REwS PRESS HAWAIIAN TOURS February-May-July 14 days in the Islands, 7 days in the Outer Islands OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES January For those who wish, there will be time to go to the temples. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27 day, and 29 day tour arranged, Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 3..........60 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 8..........1.20 Prayer of a Visiting Teacher Lucile R. Smith | pray, Lord, as a teacher To be worthy of my call; To strive for understanding And have charity for all. Teach me to have forbearance That | shall not try to judge The weaknesses of others But keep free from fault and grudge. Help me to grow in knowledge Yet be humble and devout; Guide me to teach with wisdom And leave faith where there is doubt. Give me a willing spirit; Make me mindful of the scope Of ways to help where there is need Of comfort, care, and hope. Wilt thou grant my supplication And bless me to the end, That every sister | may visit Will find in me a friend. Valentine for Stephanie Ethel Jacobson — It's Valentine's Day, Which is always fun, But this is an extraSpecial one— The very first For a girl | know Who's six months old And starting to crow And gurgle ''Ma-ma,"' And chew her toes And flirt with every Man she knows— What else indeed For a rosy elf Who's a real-life valentine Herself? HAWAIIAN TOURS January. February, May, June, October, November, December 1965 MEXICO February 1965 EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR AND PAGEANT TOUR July—September 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Grandson Christie Lund Coles You are the son | never had: Small boy, blue-eyed, blonde of hair; You are the dream | waited long to see, So fair, so fair. You are the small, impertinent smile The mischievous, quick act; The love of outstretched arms. You are the living fact Of all | hoped and waited for, (So small, so gentle and so wise.) Small boy, you are my deepest heart - Stretched twice its size. 157 by joining the LDS Books Club now! Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants and The Pearl of Great Price. (offer expires March 31, 1965) (good only in the U. S. And Canada) START YOUR BOOKS CLUB MEMBERSHIP WITH ONE OF THESE FINE STANDARD WORKS COMPANION VOLUMES 1. BOOK OF MORMON TESTIFIES 4. EVIDENCES AND by Dr. Sidney B. Sperry $3.50 RECONCILIATIONS 2. PEARL OF GREAT PRICE by John A. Widtsoe $3.95 COMMENTARY 5. OUR LIVING GOSPEL by Dr. Milton R. Hunter $3.25 by Wendell 0. Rich $3.75 3. DOCTRINES OF SALVATION. ' hy Bruce R. McConkie 6. RELIGOUS TRUTHS DEFINED Vols. I, Hl and It $3.50 each by Joseph Fielding Smith, Jr. $2.00 LDS Books Club, Inc. P. O. BOX 400 + SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84101 Death of City Trees Lael w. Hill Tall grew the trees; tall the city around them Rising and falling with time and Masonry MK Mw we we Pa "AN xK "Nn TR 159 160 Dithday Congratulations Ninety-eight Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Sarah Ellen Burton Foulger Ogden, Utah Mrs. Linda Bockerman Hackmeister. Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Minnie F. Lutz Mrs. K. Marie Jensen Teton, Idaho Moses Lake, Washington Ninety-six Mrs. Sarah WahIstrom Rider Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Symons Hillstead Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Caroline Ringel Steed Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Ninety-three Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Katie Taylor Dansie, ' Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eleanor Jarvis Seegmiller St. George, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Partridge Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Jensen Tervou Ninety Hamilton, Montana Mrs. Theresa Egan Dayley Mrs. Alice Durfee Rice Boise, Idaho Almo, Idaho Mrs. Mary Budge Woolley Ninety-one Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alice Wadsworth Simpson Mrs. Louise Rupper Grames Hooper, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Niountain Children Maude Rubin Their mother moves through early morning chill Baking the cornbread, setting the cabin right; Quilting a coverlet of crimson twill To warm a willow trundle-bed, come night. Her children grow as vixen's younglings grow, Small things of wilderness with jewel-bright eyes' To see a world all theirs... To open, know Time's hidden secrets, wrapped in green surprise. They learn to tame the fawn; to hush their cry— The trickle of the creek sounds in their talk. The first word from their lips is ''up'—then "high" For mountain children climb before they walk. Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Washington Terrace, Utah A HERITAGE OF FAITH by Joseph L. Wirthlin An inspiring collection of speeches and sermons of the former Presiding Bishop of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A valuable addition to every LDS library. $3.50 Apiritay of ith Nees — OUR WORD OF WISDOM. By David Geddes Many new aspects of the "Word of Wisdom" are analyzed in view of scientific evidence. The true wisdom of the LDS law of abstinence from liquor, tea, coffee, and tobacco is shown. Other phases of the "Word of Wisdom"' also included. $2.95 OM PANY 44 EAST SO. Fame AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN A TRIO OF Cw © a: The,. Vm WORD of WISDOM rs \" - naqnanires: THE BEATITUDES by Elmer Peterson This book will provide the reader with deep insight into the beautiful attitudes that form the basic elements of the true Christian character. The eternally meaningful Beatitudes will take on new meaning for everyone who reads this volume. $1.95 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed please find $................ Cheek [] Money Order (] _ I have an account, please charge. For books numbered 1 2 3 Name:............ Address: 002........22..00cccccee cece ee ceec cece GitiysState:. 0.0.0... Hips... Residents of Utah please include 32% sales tax R. S. Feb. °65 PLAY day Saint fam 00d intentions ~~ Many of ys Save the "Put'ntake" meth Call your Beneficial Life man about this plan — Soon, Or mail the coupon below, ee... Ce a ee TAL LIFE INSURANCE Co €neficial Life Building — Salt Lake City. Utah C] Yes. 7 d like 9 know Moti valor" Plan NAM E Street or RFD. CITY. Os STATE.: Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah en t Plan is Sulfilled ® Has Paid-up Options in Case the plan can't be COntinued. ® Provides Slexibility £0 suit your income and need; ° If Dad Should noy live to complete the Plan we pay Pre | The Cover: Frontispiece: Linnie F. Robinson A woodpecker spreads his Egyptian fan Of red and black in a splash on the sky; A new green wave like the river Nile, Has covered the town to enchant the eye. Forsythia, like a princess of old, Stands all in gold by a lilac tree; The orchard trees have burst with a murmur Of pink and white in a coterie. Oh, never have there been skies so blue, The sun has turned into an alchemist; Spring wears a necklace of daffodils On carpets of buttercups, dewdrop kissed.! Hear a laugh where the creek runs down, Sense a coquette as the butterfly leaves; | know | see love in the swallow's nest Under my own low eaves. The Langdales, Lake District, England Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Springtime Blossoms Photograph by Ward Linton for Don Knight Art Layout:; Dick Scopes Illustrations: ~ Mary Scopes eam tom | am now a part of the servicemen's group, St. Johns Branch, Maritime District, New England Mission. This group is stationed at the Argentia Naval Station, Argentia, Newfoundland. My Mag: azine is enjoyed by all the sisters in our group here, as well as by our husbands. We are particularly pleased with the lesson material for literature this year, and are enjoying reading the wonderful textbook. Thank you for this wonderful Magazine that makes us feel closer to home each month. Elouise F. Cheney St. Johns, Newfoundland | really enjoy and look forward to The Relief Society Magazine, and especially appreciate the beautiful covers. | am a_ secretary-treasurer in Relief Society, and feel honored to have been asked to take this position. Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire, England. | deeply appreciate the opportunity | have of receiving The Relief Society Magazine. As a missionary | find infinite uses for this little gem of inspiration. Our women contacts truly enjoy reading the wonderful messages and the various articles on home and family life, such as the article 'The Effects of Home Influence," by President N. Eldon Tanner, in the December 1964 issue. As long as the Magazine is published, the missionaries will have a good proselyting com: panion. Elder David Mueller Minneapolis, Minnesota The pictures and the essays in the Magazine have always given me strength, courage, and joy, and | profit by the instructions to improve our Relief Society organizations. 1 am happy to have the opportunity to serve in such a wonderful organization. Ingeborg M. Gildner President Bavarian Mission Relief Society 162 { "ir andl 2 Sar | am a new convert to the Church, and the Church is new in our area. The membership is small but growing fast. One of the sisters gave me a4 number of back issues of The Relief Society Magazine, and | would like to say how very much | enjoyed them, especially Miranda Snow Walton's beautiful sad poem "Some Late Evening" in the January 1963 issue. The group pictures of the Relief Society sisters are interesting. They have such 'kind and happy faces, and the samples of their beautiful handicraft show how varied their interests are. Mrs. Roy Stultz Moncton, New Bruns Canada | enjoy the Magazine very much and sit down as soon as it comes eve month to read it from cover to c | especially enjoy the serials which are included among the other stories. Thank you for the many hours of pleasure, and for the many more } am sure will come with the arrival of the Magazine. Edna Davis Middlefield, Ohio | must congratulate you on the November Magazine. It is truly as beautiful as autumn itself. The poetry has thrilled me, and | wonder how women can express themselves so beautifully. The other articles and recipes are just as precious, and | would not exclude the lesson department—it is priceless. Mrs. Katie Lewis Malad, Idaho | prize each issue of the Magazine. My children enjoy many of the features and stories as much as | do. | have often used short articles, stories, and poems from the Magazine to brighten up our Home Evening program. Dorothy Brewer Whitmer Mesa, Arizona tne Relief Society woces. A: _— = Volume 52 March 1965 Number 3 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 164 "The Lord Is My Strength" Winniefred S. Manwaring 174 Teaching Truths to Tots Lila B. Walch 184 Through the Eyes of a Convert Ida M. Potts 188 The Red Cross and Its Field of Service Robert W. Sarnoff 190 Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England Claire Noall Fietion 167 A Doll for Emarita Third Prize Story Norma A. Wrathall 178 Her Second Daughter Edith Larson 211 The Turn of the Wheel—Chapter 6 Mabel Harmer 219 The Right Direction Betty Lou Martin General Features 162 From Near and Far 186 Editorial: "The Time of the Singing Birds" Vesta P. Crawford 189 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 226 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home -Inside and Out 198 Sweaters Trimmed with Flowers 199 "A Springtime Party" 200 "Harvest Holiday"; 202 Tacoma Stake Bazaar Represents Many Nations 204 "Around the World Bazaar" 205 The Sculptured Beauty of Formal Gardens Dorothy J. Roberts 210 Mary A. Kelii Makes Hawaiian Quilts 217 The Little White Box Janet W. Breeze 223 Nurture Curiosity Caroline Eyring Miner 224 Framed Beauty LaVon B. Olsen Lesson tor May 233 Work Meeting — Fulfilling Family Obligations Alberta H. Christensen Poetry 161 Spring Show — Frontispiece Linnie F. Robinson Strength of the Hills, by Grace Barker Wilson, 166; Deserted Cabin, by Zara Sabin, 166; A Boy's Way Is Up, by Lael W. Hill, 173; On the Heights, by Miriam R. Anderson, 177; Morning Star, by Ethel Jacobson, 197; Strength to Grow, by Carolle Denton, 218; Reassurance, by Catherine B. Bowles, 225; Spring Cleaning, by Viola Ashton Candland, 238. Hed monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day ints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main t, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once giving old and new. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the of March 3, 1879, Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of Ocr 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Ipts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manu- "The Lord iS My My dear brothers and sisters, I deem it a privilege to have this opportunity to speak to you today. As I look over this vast audience, it is an awe-inspiring sight, and it is also a humbling experience. I pray that what I say to you this afternoon, will be pleasing to my Heavenly Father. The story is told of a young man, full of exuberance, who undertook to draw up a list of the good things of life. When his list was completed, he proudly showed it to a wise friend, who had been the spiritual model of his youth. As the old friend pondered the list thoughtfully, the corners of his eyes wrinkled in amusement. He told the young man that he had omitted the most important thing of all, without which each possession would become a burden. With a pencil, the wise counselor crossed out the entire list and wrote down three words "peace of mind." The scriptures tell us that men are that they might have joy. Yet, if the mind is troubled and heavily burdened with the problems of life, our joy is greatly decreased. 164 Winniefred S. Manwaring Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964.] How can we meet these problems that might seem so insurmountable to us as individuals and acquire a_ tranquility of mind? We must first recognize change as a part of our Heavenly Father's plan. Everything in the world is in a constant state of change. It is an inevitable part of our existence, therefore, changes are bound to occur in the life of each of us. Sometimes these changes come suddenly, unannounced, bringing sorrow and despair. If we are wise, we will learn to bend with the harsh winds of life, as the trees incline their branches with the gale. There are trials wherein we must bend our heads in humble submission to our Maker. Each of us has many private battlefields — everyone has his secret sorrows. As Samuel Johnson said, 'How little any of us know the real internal state even of those whom we see most frequently." We are told that what life does to us is pretty well determined by the attitudes we take; that our unhappiness dethe way We happiness OF selves. The world admires people who know how to bear unhappiness with courage. Many great men and women owe their greatness to the difficulties they experienced in life. It has been written that the art of living lies not in eliminating but in growing with our troubles. We must learn to adjust to Suffering was made ground. How else can we prove to our Maker — and ourselves — our own are tested py trial, sorrow, a gives US h hope can banish discouragement. Work and service. One of the most for the relief of a depressed mind, is to en gage in constructive endeavor of any nature. Those of you who have traveled by air, have seen how the plane i ds, but, by its own power, it can rise UPward to sunlit skies. If we use the full capabilities which the Lord has bestowed upon us, we can lift our uTHE LORD IS MY STRENGTH" Many great battles of life are fought and won in the quietude of one's heart. The words of a familiar hymn can motivate us towards constructive thinking, many blessings, name them one by one." If the ied with counting the good things of life that have come to us, worry and tension will disappear. Prayer has been called the bridge which reaches from earth to heaven, and the one pathway from despair. The answers to our and fasting may not be given just as we would have wanted them to be. The Lord's answer may be in granting us instrength and courage, We can the problems of life. Prayers were answered would desire them to be, most of us would not experience the death of a loved one, sickness, trials or tribulations — and these f life. Smith Jail, he poured out his heart to his Maker. In the midst of his j these comforting words were given to him by the Lord: peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; then, if thou endure it well, exalt thee on high (D& _,. Know thou, these things shall... Be for thy good The Son of Man hath descended low them all. Artthou greater than he? (D&C 122:7-8). When our minds are weighted down with discouragement and 165 MARCH 1965 despair, it would be well for us to ask ourselves, "Art thou greater than he?" | In all of the difficulties that beset us in life, let us grasp the "Rod of Iron" of which Nephi spoke, for he said "it was the word of God; and whoso would hearken unto the word of God, and would hold fast unto it, they would never perish..." (Nephi 15:24). May I conclude with an admonition from the Bible, Trust ye in the Lord for ever: for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength (Isaiah 26:4). I say these things humbly in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Strength of the Hills Grace Barker Wilson The memory of wooded mountain tops Has brought me strength. | find a comfort in the thought Of sweet spruce boughs All dripping from a shower. | have no mountains here, nor evergreens, But in my heart they will remain For comfort and assurance When | stumble in the sand. Deserted Cabin Zara Sabin Somebody's home this cabin has been, Suns and storms ago, Somebody's happiness held therein Happiness or woe. The logs of the walls are all hand hewn The covering roof of shakes — Though the walls still stand, the roof is wind strewn And weathered to twisted flakes. The rawhide hinge and the pine-slab door, Crumbling, both, to dust, Lie where they fell on the warping floor — Nails which held them, rust. The doorway seems a gaping mouth, The window-well an eye — Did they see - - - could they tell us tales of drouth And want as the years dragged by? This home was builded with loving care, Suns and storms ago.... Who were the builders? What did they share? Why did they leave it so? 166 Store in | ars, would be all right, k the two-room In vain had Rosa's deft fingers e, thrust angrily at the rubbed red crayon lightly Over Shed rain against the the Spackled ch arita 5 had, in fact, Tetused to et the ales g anced appredol] Slee beside any more toward the Outdoor The Y itself } d been pleas €n went aking ant enough. Mrs nzales had two little girls, Saved y make lit le Cakes, 800d that the holiday had Special trea They d decorated Ought, with a sigh, he kitchen th ornaments Made Emarita had drooped at sch n 1 Wonder jf she Paper tree Which is [ | Osa had brought hom There € long Walk into had bee money for gifts, Y before Christmas, however, beyond the two Chea eautify] Store winColoring book » & box of crayons, ad been fascinated and a ba of candy wheedleq did toys Emarita, against the frowns of Mr. Imas, med unable to Proprietor and owner of the or. Om the dolls, More ¢ ard tract 8rocery Store, an any she had ever "Are Sure t¢ Luis js: coming back at all?" d deAfter they were home again, MARCH 1965 my money? And what about the rent on the cabin?" Mrs. Gonzales had said that, of course, Luis would come back! Even now, he might have found work. But Mr Dimas had muttered darkly to himself as he wrote down her purchases. Now, she called, "Hurry, girls, get ready. Who knows if the clock is right after two weeks?" Emarita trudged from the bedroom and slumped against the table. "Mama, I can't go to school. I have a headache," she announced. "What is this? Are you sick?" Her mother thought of the slicked-out mush bowls and the piles of stones from the dried prunes which had rounded out their breakfast. '""You ate, Emarita. You will be all right. So, come now. Put on your coat." 168 The mother's large, quick hands finished wrapping the tacos in two brown paper packages and wrote each girl's name with the stub of a pencil. Emarita stood still, shaking her head. Rosa came from the bedroom. She had combed and braided her own and her sister's hair. Now she spoke from a ten-year-old's superior wisdom. "TI know why she doesn't want to go to school, Mama. Always on this day, the girls bring their new dolls, and the boys bring toys, from Christmas, to show the class." Rosa took her coat from the row of wooden pegs and shrugged into it, pulling at the sleeves, which were too short. Mrs. Gonzales leaned forward, searching Emarita's eyes. "Is this what the teacher said? Bring dolls?" Emarita nodded. Two tears started down her cheeks, Their mother said nothing for a moment. So it was the heart that ached. "But what about you, Rosa? What will you take?" Rosa lifted her shoulders, "In fourth grade we are too old to bring toys. We only tell about them. So, I will] Not raise my hand when the teacher asks who has something to tell. Emarita can do the same." grandmother gent long ago? A You can take A faintly musty smell rose from the newspaper swaddlings s the tiny doll was unwrapped, It was made entirely of cloth, by hand, the features sewed with colored thread, black yarn hair held by a cardboard comb under a wisp of black lace mantilla, the louse and wide skirt of bright cotton material. Emarita glanced at ferently. Her eyes were stil] glazed by Visions of the beauteous dolls in the stores, "T don't want it," she Said in a strangled voice. "Tt is very pretty, Mama," said Rosa quickly, "And I know why she doesn't want it; 1 it indifTheir mother put the doll aside, then gathered the girls into her arms, kneeling beside them. "Do not cry, or be ashamed. It is not good to boast of what one A DOLL For EMARITA gets for Christmas, And see all the pretty things you made — ama was happy with them. Come, now, Emarita. Be a good girl. Soon you will be at school and see your playmates," She They bent their heads against the wind; sure enough, there was the yellow school bus coming up the road. As she straightened the house, rs. Gonzales decided she should work again, now that the girls were in school. The nearby Ironing to be done one day a week She hummed to herself, walking home. Ama say!" E marira had been bending over something on the table. Turned and flung herself against er mother. "Oh, Mama. I mean to take it, J didn't!" In its box lay a doll, a wondrous doll, with blond curls, real lashes on eyelids that opened and closed, a rosebud mouth, pink cheeks, a blue organdy dress with stockings and purse to match. Mrs. Gonzales felt shame burning in her face. Didn't really 169 MARCH 1965 "Emarita. Where did you get i?" "It — it — is so beautiful. I just borrowed it! I didn't mean to keep it! I didn't!" Sobs muffled through her hands held over her face. "It is not yours, to borrow, or take," said her mother, thickly. "Oh, Mama," cried Rosa, "now they will all hate us. They will say that she stole it!" Tears coursed down her cheeks. Mrs. Gonzales sat heavily upon a kitchen chair, Bit by bit, the story came from Emarita's trembling lips, of how a girl named Melissa had brought the lovely doll to school. Then the girl's mother had come to take her home early, because of the rain. The doll had been left on the counter, forgotten in its box. When Emarita went back to the classroom to get her coat, at bus time, she peeked into the box. Somehow she couldn't resist. The teacher had been busy at her desk and didn't notice. "But I will take it back tomorrow. I didn't — steal it —." "T believe that you did not," said her mother slowly. "But we must take the doll back now, today. Not tomorrow. First, I will look to see that it is all right.... Emarita, did the doll have but one shoe?" "Yes, Mama. When Melissa held up the doll for us to see, it had only one shoe. I looked at it very long." "Put on your coats — we must hurry. If the school is locked, we will find the janitor." THE wind had piled the clouds toward the west end of the valley, letting through the pale 170 afternoon sun. The earth veiled itself in silvery mist, fragrant with tree-bark, evergreen spice, and leaf mold. Gems sparkled from the bare trees where birds twittered a denial that winter had come at all. But Mrs. Gonzales had no eye for the beauties of nature. Her mouth was set, her eyes looked only toward the way they must go. Her long cotton skirt billowed from her thrusting legs as the girls took running steps to meet her stride. At last they were at the school, which was built in a series of corridors, each room having an outside door. Emarita saw her teacher coming out, turning to lock the door. "Teacher! Teacher!" she called. The teacher waited, smiling. "T am Miss Whittier, Emarita's teacher." Mrs. Gonzales tried to smile politely, suddenly conscious of her mud-spattered shoes and rumpled dress. "I am Emarita's mother. I — Emarita has something to tell you." Miss Whittier's face became serious as she listened. At last she said, "Well, as a matter of fact, I have just been talking to Mrs. Adams and Melissa. They came back to school when Melissa realized that she had forgotten her doll. We should go into the office and talk to the principal. I think he is still here." As they followed the teacher to the office, Mrs. Gonzales' fingers closed tighter around Emarita's cold hand. The principal was a tall man, slightly stooped, his face lined by the troubles of other people. He listened carefully to what they had to tell. When he spoke, his voice was deliberate, as if he considered each word: '""This is a very serious matter. I don't have to tell you that. I can see it in your faces. Now, Emarita must learn, early in life, that she must not, cannot, take or borrow other people's things without asking. Do you have something to say, Emarita?" As if by compulsion, Emarita half rose from her chair, and leaned toward the shining expanse of the principal's desk, her eyes straining from their sockets toward the face of judgment. Her mouth opened, but no sound came for a moment. She swallowed. "TI — I — amso sorry..." she began. Her mother looked sternly at the child. "What is your promise, Emarita?"' "That I will never, never, never " a sob broke the small voice. THE principal's face relaxed. "T'm sure you mean that, Emarita," he said gently. He reached for the phone. 'And now, I think it best that I call Mrs. Adams and ask her to come over here. At first, I didn't intend to. But — she is quite upset. Perhaps if we talk this over, we can get everything straightened out tonight." A few minutes later, Mrs. Adams' high heels tapped across the tiled floor. Melissa followed her mother, her fair hair tied into a pony tail which bounced as she walked. Mrs. Adams scarcely glanced at the forlorn trio, and after greeting Miss Whittier and the principal, she took the box from his desk, and began looking at A DOLL FOR EMARITA the doll. Melissa sat quietly on a chair. "Well, it seems to be all right. Not torn or dirty. But where is the doll's other shoe, Melissa?' "TI don't know, Mother. I thought it was in the box." "Well, it isn't. And if the shoe is lost, it must be paid for." Emarita started to speak, but her mother interrupted, '"'As soon as Emarita brought the doll home, I saw only one shoe. She said that there was only one, all the time." Mrs. Adams sniffed. ''She said! But if the child would steal the doll in the first place...." "Kmarita is sorry; she only borrowed," began Mrs. Gonzales. The principal cleared his throat. "Perhaps we should discuss this a little more calmly. It is natural that you are upset, Mrs. Adams. This is a very expensive doll, valued by you and Melissa. And Mrs. Gonzales is upset; she feels very deeply about this. Now, Melissa, are you sure the doll was wearing both shoes when you brought it to school this morning?" "Why, yes, sir, I think...." "Of course she is sure. Why, she held the box in her lap all the way to school this morning. I drove her over here because it was raining, and we didn't want the doll to get wet,'' Mrs. Adams said. The principal said, "If the shoe is really lost, I'm sure that Mrs. Gonzales will make restitution. You might look again at home, Melissa. And now, maybe you girls can wait in the outer office with Miss Whittier?" Mrs. Gonzales sat looking down at her large hands, twisting and 171 MARCH 1965 untwisting her skirt in her lap. Mrs. Adams' eyes found a resting place just above the window. "We are dealing here with a situation involving children," the principal's voice went on. "We should not let our personal feelings take precedence over their welfare. We could, of course, carry the matter much further, demanding reprisals...." His glance rested lightly upon Mrs. Adams' unresponsive countenance. "We could even make a big thing of it. But it seems to me that this would not be in the interest of fairness. I think that the least damaging thing for both the little girls right now is to let the matter rest. Mrs. Gonzales and her girls walked back to the school, a distance of over a mile and a half, on a cold afternoon, in an effort to make things right. They could easily have waited until morning, during which time you, Mrs. Adams, and also Melissa, would have been concerned about the loss of the expensive doll. But they did not wait.' He held up a hand against Mrs. Adams' sucked-in breath. "I am not excusing Emarita, and her mother is not excusing her; are you, Mrs. Gonzales?" "Oh, no! No! I am sorry!" Mrs. Adams did not look at her. 'Well, of course, I don't want to be too harsh. But I do feel that the child should be punished. After all, this doll is one of Melissa's very best presents; she's ever so choice of it! And though Emarita says she was only... Borrowing — we don't really know what she intended...." The principal cleared his throat again. "Sometimes we never 172 really know.... Mrs. Gonzales, what did Emarita get for Christmas?" A flush stained Mrs. Gonzales' neck and face as she lifted her head. "You see, my husband is away, looking for work. So we do not have money for gifts. But we have food. We do not need anything." Her dark gaze rested on the other woman's face. "That is not excuse. Emarita should not have done it." F or just a moment, surprise, almost unbelief, flicked across Mrs. Adams' smooth features. 'Well — I guess there's no real harm done — we have the doll back. BP] She started to leave, holding out her hand to the principal. Then she looked down at the figure huddled in the chair, as if seeing her for the first time. Impulsively, she put a hand on the other woman's shoulder. "As far as I'm concerned, the whole thing — is forgotten...." She fumbled in her purse for a handkerchief, and hurried from the room. Mrs. Gonzales smiled, nodded. She rose stiffly. Rosa and Emarita waited with the teacher; Melissa had followed her mother. "T will give you folks a ride home," said the principal. ""Thank you for waiting, Miss Whittier." Just then Melissa came running back. "Look, Emarita! The shoe. It was in the car all the time. I guess it fell out of the box this morning. My mother said to come back and tell you I'm sorry; but I didn't really think you'd lost it." Blue eyes smiled into brown. 'See you tomorrow." and "Goodby!" Mrs. Gonzales patted Emarita's shoulder. "Emarita always tell truth," she said proudly. As they rode along in the car, the principal said that sometime he wanted to see the Spanish lady doll, and hear about the grandmother who had made her. It was important to remember the Mexican people who had helped to build California. And didn't Emarita think it was more comfortable to play with an old A DOLL FOR EMARITA doll? Then you needn't worry about spoiling it. By the time they reached the orchard tract, the wind was moaning in the trees, as if preparing for another onslaught. But to the three who walked up the slope, its voice was only a sigh, rising on _ earth-scented shadows. Mrs. Gonzales had put an arm around each girl; they clung to her wide, firm hands as, smiling, they pushed open the rickety door. Norma A. Wrathalll, who formerly lived in Grantsville, Utah, is now a resident of Sunnyvale, California. She is well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, having won awards in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in three previous years. As a homemaker, mother, grandmother, teacher, Church worker, and author, she finds joy in the many rewarding facets of her life. "My literary efforts are few and far between these days, sandwiched in between so many other duties. The years fly along, and | never seem to catch up with the things | would like to be writing. | have taught school here in Sunnyvale during the past five years. This year, | am teacher-librarian in the schools here. Also, | teach a Sunday School class in the Sunnyvale Ward. "My husband is Morris Y. Wrathall. Our children are: Don, doing graduate work in physics at B. Y. U.; Carolyn (Mrs. Ronald Anderson), mother of our three lovely grandchildren, living in Cottonwood, Salt Lake City; Camille (Mrs. Geoffrey Ball), living in Menlo Park, California; and Robert, who will graduate from Sunnyvale High School in June. They are, really, my greatest accomplishment." A Boy's Way Is Up Lael W. Hill A boy's way is up, from the moment when He struggles to both feet and stands like men — To the hour he clambers and scrambles where He can teeter with joy on a kitchen chair — To the day his toes and his confidence Win a perilous perch on the backyard fence — To the breathless time he discovers he Is the bold master of any old tree. A boy's way is up — and that is why Space ships will rocket across our sky. 173 'truths THROUGH THE FAMILY HOME EVENING Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society A suHorT time ago a son, nearly ready to return from a mission in Sweden, wrote to his parents and said, "I think you should know that of my last three companions each one plans to rear his family just as you have reared yours. You see, I've been telling them some of the things we do in our family, especially all about our home evenings, and they plan to do it just as we do." This fortunate young man had been reared in a home that began holding home evenings when he was only three years old. His parents had read in President Joseph F. Smith's book Gospel Doctrine: There is no substitute for the home.. The home has been the chief characteristic of superior over inferior nations. The home then is more than a habitation, it is an institution which stands for stability and love in individuals as well as nations (Third Edition, page 375). The parents of this missionary took seriously President Smith's statement: Not one child in a hundred would go astray if the home environment, example and training, were in har- 174 mony with the truth in the gospel of Christ, as revealed and taught to the Latter-day Saints (page 378). And so, they started holding their weekly home evenings years ago with their two sons, Larry, age three, and Verle, eighteen months. There was wisdom in beginning early. The home evening habit should be started when children are small for conditions are ideal at that time. Parents can have the little ones all to themselves, since there are not many demands on the time of small children. In the missionary's home the evening was an occasion to be anticipated. It was never called 'Family Hour." An hour! Why in an hour they just barely got started. As the years passed, four more lovely children were added to the family. Church responsibilities increased as did home duties. Every hour was filled to the very brim with tasks that had to be accomplished: baking, cleaning, cooking, sewing, music lessons, school work, yard work, Church work, making a living. How breathlessly busy they were! As wise parents, however, they had learned that it was important to THE VICTOR L. WALCH FAMILY Allison directing the music; Wilson at the 'piano'; seated on the couch Carole Walch; Melissa; and Victor L. Walch. Be busy about their most precious possessions — their children. Some may say, "Our children are too small. They don't enjoy lessons or stories from the scriptures; they want to hear fairy tales. We will wait until they are older and more capable of understanding, then we will begin to teach the gospel through the Family Home Evening." A srory is told of a mother who, after listening to a lecture by the late Francis Wayland Parker, a great Chicago educator, asked, "How early can I begin the education of my child?" "When will your child be born?" asked the educator. "Born," gasped the mother, 'why he is already five years old." "My goodness, woman," he cried, "don't stand there talking to me, hurry home; already you have lost the best five years!" Remember there is wisdom in beginning this program early. Last summer, a father and mother and their three small children, Wilson, age four, Allison, age two, and Melissa, age one, were visiting grandparents for a few weeks. It would be hard to describe the excitement and anticipation shown when their father announced that Home Evening was to be held. The children (and the grandparents) could hardly wait for evening to come. Refreshments were prepared, graham crackers and marshmallows, with Allison assisting. A fire was laid in the fireplace ready to light at the proper time. The children were as happy as if it were the night before Christmas. As the family gathered together, it was evident that this was a usual custom in their home. Even little Melissa folded her 175 MARCH 1965 arms and sat quietly as Wilson gave the prayer, expressing appreciation to the Heavenly Father for their many blessings and that they could hold their Family Home Evening. First on the program was singing. Allison was told it was her turn to direct, and Wilson was asked to accompany. Grandmother wondered how this could be since she knew the children's home had no piano. To Wilson it was no problem. He sat down in a low chair, pulled another in front of him and began running his hands across the seat of the chair as if he were accompanying a great choir. Allison directed with almost perfect rhythm. As Primary and Sunday School songs were sung with joy and feeling, the words of President Joseph F. Smith came to mind, Good music is gracious praise of God. It is delightsome to the ear, and it is one of our most acceptable methods of worshipping God (Gospel Doctrine, page 325). At the conclusion of the evening, Grandpa was asked to tell a story. He picked up the Bible and from it told the story of the Prophet Samuel. The children listened attentively and_ they learned. The following night when it was time for the goodnight story of their choice, they brought the Bible to their mother and asked to hear about the Prophet Samuel again. Little children love to hear stories from the scriptures and the truths of the gospel, especially when taught by their parents. Great strength will come to our homes as we are faithful in following the program of teaching the gospel in the home through the Family Home Evening. And above all else, let us train our children in the principles of the gospel of our Savior, that they may become familiar with the truth and walk in the light which it sheds forth to all those who will receive it. "He that seeketh me early," the Lord has said, — "shall find me" (/bid, page 370). Sods dgntag ry VEREE Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, featuring four outstanding short stories. Watch for these stories in April: "A Swedish Conversion,'' by Melva Taylor Gleave "Love Thy Neighbour,' by Helen Hooper "The Image,' by Sara O. Moss "A State of Mind,"' by Lael J. Littke 176 Aphis wogay 1 Y VVELTVPEYYYV VY TeETeTT ELT. N FNMA On the Heights Miriam R. Anderson Bend to the wind, old tree, set alone And stark along the timberline; Sturdy and gnarled the years have wrought A gallantry in your design. Bend to the wind, resilient, where The eagie feeds his lonely brood; Only the stout that bend and give Survive the tempest's magnitude. Bend to the wind — spring back again! So trees and men survive to know The meaning, ELDA Sorensen shivered \ / in the air-conditioned bus. She paid little attention to the sun-baked desert streaming by the tinted windows. Knowing that something was wrong there, not knowing what, she was mentally a hundred miles ahead in a certain small town nestled in a notch of the East Mountains. Somewhere in that town were twins, Nancy and Dan, aged seven; nine-year-old Monte, teaser extraordinary; and quicksilver Linda, who had so eloquently pleaded that at sixteen she was old enough to assume responsibility for the quartet. "What could, go wrong? Dad is even home for lunch!" Linda had scoffed. "Yes, I know your father is where he can check frequently, and you can go to him if anything serious happens, but—" Velda had hesitated, remembering the innumerable accidents that swoop down so suddenly that even the Sorensen Hardware on Main Street might be too far away. 178 H\ Va ty Linda's jaw had begun to quiver. "I wouldn't mind, Mother, really, only Sharon took care of all of us when she was a mere child. You just don't seem to have any confidence in me." "But I do, Linda. Of course I do. I don't know what I'd have done without you now Sharon is married and so far away." The sparkle had come back to Linda's eyes and a tap step to her ever-dancing feet. 'Then you won't get a_ baby-sitter while you're at Grandma's, will you? You'll leave me in charge, won't you?" adding, as Velda had still hesitated, "under Daddy, of course!" "T'll talk to your father." For a chance to confer with her husband before Linda could plead her cause, Velda had picked Vincent up at the store that evening. To her surprise, he had agreed with his second daughter. "But Linda's nowhere near as responsible as Sharon at her age!"" Velda had protested. Vincent fitted the key in the ignition, depressed the accelera- —-~ tor the exact amount needed for the motor to turn over on the first whirr of the starter. He spoke quietly: 'At Linda's age, Sharon had been the right hand of a semi-invalid mother for two years. Youngsters became responsible by being given responsibility. Inoculations would be easier on the parents, I suppose." Vincent grinned, though he kept his eyes on the passing traffic, watching for a break. "Science has discovered strange things, but somehow, I think I prefer the old-fashioned way of giving a child a job to do and letting her do it." "But I may be gone a week or more! It may take Mother longer to get on her feet this time." Having found his opening and guided the car into the homebound traffic stream, Vincent took one hand off the wheel and patted Velda's as it clutched her purse. "I'll keep both eyes on Linda instead of the one Sharon required,' he had _ promised. 'Don't worry. She'll grow into the job." And then it was time to drive into their own garage. For once he hadn't teased her about using a car to go two blocks. Now, remembering, Velda drew her sweater about her snugly and wished the miles were -shorter. At least, she was headed back home. And so far there had been no disastrous reports. But something was wrong. She knew it — sensed it, rather. During their two long-distance talks—both initiated by Velda— Linda had assured her that everything was wonderful, everyone HER SECOND DAUGHTER was tops, and keeping house was one long pleasure. But under the assurances was a dearth of details. The bus was slowing for a station, but Velda settled deeper into her seat instead of following those who seized the chance for a stretch. A new, startling thought had occurred to her. Here for a week—how she had worked to cut the trip as short as possible— she had been worrying about all the children except the one who was most vulnerable. Linda was so sensitive. Her mother's tense, anxious attitude might hurt the girl deeply, especially if the job had proven too much for her. Suddenly Velda's heart went out to Linda, always trying to equal, never quite succeeding in keeping up with competent, lovable Sharon. No younger child ever went to Linda to have the hurt kissed away — not if Sharon was around. Had the younger children accepted her authority now, or had Vincent quietly filled the breach? If he had, Linda's ego.... Perhaps some such situation was what Velda had sensed behind Linda's chatter. The actual incidents couldn't have been too serious or Vincent would have called her... But, no! There was no use in pretending to believe that nothing vital had gone wrong for Linda. Mothers have a sixth sense. As the bus moved out onto the highway again, Velda reviewed the first time her own mother had left her in charge of the younger children. Velda was only ten, but an emergency at a neighbor's had called Mama away for the afternoon. Eager toimpress her 179 MARCH 1965 mother, ignoring the danger of five brothers and sisters underfoot, Velda had decided to wash the family's few good pieces of china and glassware. Since they stood on open shelves, they frequently had to be taken down and washed. The ritual was one Velda had always treasured. THat afternoon, as she had washed, dried, and replaced the Dutch chocolate pot, the handpainted plates, the 1893 World's Fair cups and saucers, she had felt very grownup. She had left her favorite dish for the last. It was the newest one, too—a cake plate, clear glass, with a smaller base and a slim, glass column to hold the plate itself with its slightly raised edge. Papa had bought it after Mama won first prize on her layer cake at the county fair even without a fancy dish to show it off. Although Mama had _ protested against Papa's extravagance, Velda knew she held the plate dear. Velda washed it very carefully. Then, halfway between the dishpan and the cupboard, she paused, seeing a chocolate dreamcake rise majestically on the gleaming glass, ignoring the scuffle between Frankie and little Jesse. The latter took a short-cut between her legs; and dream, dish, and Velda collapsed to the floor in the midst of shattered glass. So vivid was the picture even after thirty-odd years that Velda was hardly aware of the speeding bus. She chided herself, remembering how she had resisted leaving Linda in charge at sixteen. But those were sterner times, and 180 children were expected to take responsibility young. She remembered how she had prayed Papa would get home first—as he had. At first he had been skeptical of her carefully thought-out plan, but finally agreed to mind the children while she tried it. Clutching the thirty-seven cents she had been saving for Christmas, heart hammering with every word, she had proposed to Mr. Dinwiddie of Dinwiddie's Department Store that, if he would accept a down payment of thirty-seven cents on a cake plate like Papa bought, she would contract to give him every cent she received from any source whatsoever until the plate was paid for. But she needed the plate to take home now. Mr. Dinwiddie had pulled at his mustache and said, 'Most unusual." But, just when she thought her heart would burst, he had finally pulled a sheet of paper out of the desk drawer and drawn up a contract full of party's of the first part and whereas's. And so her income was tied up for eighteen long months. No one favored her; she received her share of the small amount of spending money available and no more. But she knew that Mama prized the cake plate Velda had carried home so carefully that night even more than she had the original — just as Velda had prized it ever since Mama had given it to Vincent and her as a wedding gift. For, of course, Mama had known all about everything from the beginning. She understood the motives and she knew how the penniless months dragged. And, without words, she knew how to make Velda feel her pride in her, so that when Velda finally learned that Papa had called Mr. Dinwiddie and arranged the deal, there was no shamed let-down. How carefully she in her turn must deal with Linda's failure, whatever form it may have taken. If she only knew what to be prepared for! Anp then, there didn't seem to be anything wrong— not anything at all. The twins, Monte, Linda, and Vincent were lined up at the station with beaming, healthy faces to greet her when the bus pulled in thirty minutes late. Vincent allowed each one a hug and a kiss, then bundled them into the car with the reminder that supper was waiting. How good it felt to drive the familiar, tree-shaded street; to watch the children pile out of the car, vying for the honor of carrying her suitcase; to see Linda hurry ahead to tend to her chores in the kitchen. How extra good it felt to enter the familiar rooms. Velda_ relaxed with pride. Linda had set the table and put on it everything that could safely stand if the bus were late. From the crisper she brought out radishes, celery, and carrot sticks prepared earlier, and from another section of the refrigerator, individual molded salads. By the time everyone was washed and ready for supper, Linda was bringing in a tuna-fish casserole from the oven. As Velda listened to her husband's fervent prayer of thanks for a reunited family, her heart swelled with added thankfulness. — Why had she been so fearful? The planning behind this welHER SECOND DAUGHTER come home could come only from a responsible person. Velda added a silent prayer that God would direct her words so that they might show her appreciation without betraying her doubts. But Linda seemed curiously indifferent to praise. Although she smiled and made the right answers, her eyes never fully met her mother's. Velda felt her former anxieties stronger than ever. Yet how could anything be wrong? Vincent seemed so relaxed. When he looked fondly at Linda and said, "I knew we had another good housekeeper in the family; we just never gave her a chance," Velda realized that he was unaware of Linda's trouble, whatever it might be. Monte looked at his sister appraisingly. '"'She's doing pretty well now," he admitted, "but, boy, meals were sure late at first." "It was your fault," protested Nancy. "You brought home regular oatmeal instead of the quick kind. So Linda wasn't to blame if breakfast was ten minutes late." "Twelve minutes, thirty - two seconds," corrected Monte. THE familiar teasing was music to Velda's ears. Yet, as the banter continued, she missed one voice — Linda's. Linda, always so quick to defend herself, always so ready with the excuses, was unnaturally silent. Neither praise nor blame brought any response. Velda's_ glance circled the table, resting lovingly on each familar detail. The twins, tanned and already restless, were a fitting foreground for the wilderness mural on the south wall. 181 MARCH 1965 Behind Vincent at the head of the table stood the breakfront china cabinet. Monte was framed by the living room arch, and Linda on her mother's right.... There was something wrong in the panorama. Slowly Velda let her glance backtrack, past Monte's laughing face, past Vincent's.... There it was, just to the left and behind Vincent, the cake plate on the top shelf of the breakfront. It glowed against the rich walnut—but it wasn't her cake plate. The style was similar. Vincent would never have noticed the difference. Velda smiled in relief. She could surmise what had _ happened: probably a cake baking spree to celebrate Linda's new authority, an accident, a hasty replacement. She knew just how Linda must feel now—the sense of shame in the face of so much praise, the feeling that she had been inadequate, that she had taken a childish attitude toward her responsibility. Since Vincent was so unaware, Linda must have secretly spent her own money. Velda frowned. Linda should know better than to try to hide her mistake. Well —probably she was waiting for a private opportunity to tell her mother first. THE opportunity came and went, came and went, over and over again, until the evening became one of the longest Velda could remember. To be sure, she now knew when the accident must have happened although the substitution seemed to be known only to Linda. The other children, eagerly bringing Mom up- 182 to-date, had told her about Linda's "'party." "She had a couple of the girls over the night after you left," Vincent explained. ''My school board meeting night, you know." "But she made us all go to bed while she and those pals of hers gorged themselves on fudge layer cake and pistachio ice cream, and who knows what else," complained Monte. Again Linda sat mute. Little Nancy came to her defense. '""You ate your share the next morning, Monte." "She could hardly wait for Mom to be gone...." "That's enough, son. You know that Linda would have been entertaining the same girls in the same way if her mother had been home."' Vincent closed the subject firmly. But Velda, looking at Linda's masked face, worried. Did she intend to deceive her mother? A week crept by. If Linda meant to confide in her mother, she surely would have done so by this time. But why not? Linda had never seemed a _ secretive child. She had confessed far more serious faults than the breakage of a dish, treasured though it might be. Why was she silent now? Slowly, gropingly, during that week, Velda searched for an answer. She talked the problem over with Vincent—or rather, she talked to Vincent, for he remained noncommittal, even after she took the dish down and showed him the different pedestal and the rimless plate. As for Linda, she stayed away from home as much as possible. When in the house, she was quick to see what needed to be done; but, each task finished, she no longer asked her mother how her performance compared with Sharon's. Tue day Velda recognized the significance of the unasked ques- - began to find her: tion, she answer. Since babyhood, Linda had been saying, "I can do it just as well: as Sharon, can't I, Mommie?" From the beginning of her teens, the cry had been, "I'd be just as good as Sharon if you'd only give me a chance!" Now Linda had had _ her chance. In her own eyes, she had failed. If Linda would only confide in her mother! If Velda could only talk to her! As though Vincent stood beside her, Velda heard his voice: "Youngsters become responsible by being given responsibility." Why wasn't Linda as reliable as Sharon? With bowed head, Velda let the truth shine through her memories: Linda begging to be allowed to get supper, but being put off with table setting; Linda baby-sitting the twins in the afternoons, but Sharon taking over at night. Linda was right. Velda had never given her second daughter the trust the first one inspired. But was it because Linda was inherently unworthy of that trust? Had Velda taught her how to be worthy of it? She had taught Sharon. But Linda was a more difficult pupil. She was impatient, wanted to know how without learning, without practicing. She constantly ignored the threeyear difference between herself and her sister. Since she scorned HER SECOND DAUGHTER learning anything that Sharon already knew, she had remained largely untaught, gaining her knowledge by imitation. In this time of soul searching, Velda saw her mistake and with deep humility set about the task of atoning for it. - Ar 'first Velda tried ordinary means to break through that barrier — invitations. To 'confidence, a sewing project that kept mother and daughter together for long hours. Linda remained inside her shell. Finally Velda called Vincent and arranged for him to keep the younger children out of the way until further notice. Vincent seemed to understand. Then she set the cake plate in the center of the table and sat down to wait. Linda was a long time coming. Velda heard her slow steps on the porch, felt rather than saw her freeze in the doorway. "Come in, dear, and sit down." Face averted, Linda slumped into her father's chair at the opposite end of the table. Velda tried to make her voice sound casual. "I don't think I ever told you the story of my cake plate—I guess we mothers often neglect to tell of our own weak points," she began and went on with all the details, though at first they seemed to be dropping into a bottomless pit. But when the plate in the mother's story shattered, Linda's self-control shattered with it. As the sobbing girl rushed into her mother's outspread arms, Velda knew she would have a second chance with her second daughter. 183 «Throual ' eae — h the Convert Ida M. Potts Wat are the objects of Relief Society? I thought I knew the answer to this question, but just to make sure, I considered the book A Centenary of Relief Society, and found that the minutes of the original meeting say that the Prophet Joseph Smith declared the object of this society was to look after the needs of the poor, to search after objects of charity, to administer to their wants, and '"'to assist by correcting the morals and Seat ey the virtues of the community.. (page 15). President Hugh B. — in Continuing the Quest, says: The place of importance that was assigned to the women's Relief Society is really analogous to the place of mother in the home... The Relief Society being an extension of the home, is a helpmate to the priesthood.... Service, love-inspired service, is the symbol of womanhood. It is the emblem of the Relief Society (pp. 4-5; see also The Relief Magazine, December 1961, pp. 811-812). In our review of a convert's reactions, let us start at the beginning of her membership. The missionaries have been giving instructions, taking the investigator to the various services of the Church, and doing everything possible to create an interest in their work. They succeed in bringing the investigator into the Church. 184 She is baptized and confirmed and becomes a full-fledged memker. The missionaries have done the work for which they are trained, and now it is the duty of the membership to take their new member into their auxiliaries and fellowship with them. A shy, reserved convert finds it difficult to 'mix in" with these (to her) strangers. If she has been active in church circles previous to her becoming a Latter-day Saint, she can be lonely if the sisters do not take her under their wing and help her to become acclimated to her new environment. If she is given some work to do at once, that breaks the spell of loneliness and she more readily becomes one of the group. When once a new member reaches the place where she feels at home in her Relief Society, she realizes that it is a unique group. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency clearly describes our group. She says: Relief Society is not a Church study club, although the members faithfully study the standard works of the Church; it is not a homemakers club, although every member is trained in better homemaking; it is not a literary club, although members gain deep understanding from great writings; it is not a social service club, although it studies and sponsors the giving of service; it is not a money-making club, although substantial monetary support is given to Church programs. It is an inspired organization with the highest eternal goals (Relief Society Magazine, November 1962, page 802).; Our new convert at the beginning of the month attends a theology meeting. She soon realizes that the teacher is a dedicated sister devoting her time and energy and intelligence to giving a theology lesson that will define gospel truths and uplift the minds and hearts of those who listen to her presentation. Then follows the testimony meeting. The sisters are not afraid nor ashamed to rise to their feet and express their thanks for blessings received. All sisters meet on the same level of equality, and our convert finds that the highly educated women, as well as those of lesser education, have problems which they take to their Heavenly Father. This fosters a feeling of belonging and is of inestimable value, and is a great source of encouragement. The spiritual value of these experiences cannot be measured, nor expressed. The visiting teacher lesson comes in for its share of attention. What is more interesting than to be a visiting teacher? This gives one the opportunity to visit those members of the Church who do not, or cannot, come to the church services, or who, for some other reason, have become inactive. It gives an opportunity to contact the homebound, the ill, the working mothers—and who needs the Relief Society more than this type of person? It gives us an opportunity, through friendliness, to build up confidence in the minds of those who do not come, to sell Relief Society THROUGH THE EYES OF A CONVERT to them, and inspire them with the desire and determination to attend the meetings, if at all possible. And then there comes the work meeting, with its lessons in homemaking and its time spent in doing some constructive work, either for those less fortunate than ourselves, or for the teaching of some handicraft, which will be of benefit in the home. By the end of that first month the convert is convinced that she has indeed joined a group that is truly interested in the life of its members. In the literature lesson, she is taken on a visit to the country of the author's birth; she learns of his home, his life, his early struggles, and is introduced to his works. This teacher, also, has put considerable time and effort into preparing her lesson, and has inspired a new (or revived) interest in literature in the mind and heart of our convert. And the social science lessons! What a blessing they are, and how much the teacher of this course can influence a newcomer! Later, when she realizes the magnitude of the welfare work that this group is concerned with, her faith and confidence are strengthened. She becomes fully aware of the fact that the Relief Society does, indeed, extend a love-inspired service to humanity. Its breadth of activity, its unselfishness, and concern for all humanity are recognized, and one's ideals and aspirations heightened and a new desire is formulated within her heart. She wants to lead a devoted Christian life; she wishes to be of service to her Heavenly Father and to humanity. 185 the Singing Birds*' While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest... And summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease... And 4 will remember my covenant; which is between me and you, and every living creature.. That is upon the earth (Genesis 8:22; 9:15-16). In this brief space of time when: the vernal equinox turns the ~ earth towards summer in the northern lands, and to winter beneath the southern skies, there comes to all who live upon the earth a rejoicing in the seasons which seem steadfast even in variations of sun and cloud and storm. A reliance upon an ancient promise and the "covenant between God and every living thing'' can be a source of quiet comfort and. A renewal of gratitude for the opportunities which earth life has given us. It is well that in the time of the turning of the seasons we remember that it was by our own choice and with the blessings of our Heavenly Father that we were. Granted our time of mortality. To each woman in her own time and place the springtime has a different and an individual meaning, a significance that partakes of depths and heights, and delves into the mysteries of seed and root, and all reaching things —- the buds on the cherry trees and the topmost leaves of the poplar. Perhaps a farm woman will measure the first days of springtime by the greening of the winter wheat on land that lies between the mountains and the place of home. A city woman may observe the increased activities of sparrows who braved the winter and greet the first warm days with a tremendous chirping. In the suburbs it may be observed that rakes and hoes and packages of seeds become the tools of women who have been winterbound too long. The time of the pruning of the rosebush has come, and the day of the marigold seeds. What can be more joyful in sight and sound than the baby, born in the winter, and now experiencing his first springtime, being proudly Volume 52 March 1965 Belle S. Spafford, e Marianne C. E Louise W. Madsen, Hulda P. Young, 186 EDITORIAL | propelled along the street by a mother who knows full well! The blessings of sunshine and song. The hopscotch girls and their friends who are renewing their joy with the jumping rope are signs of spring as integral as any iris blossom or early daffodil. The springtime of earth and the springtime of life seem to be joined with the spirit of promise. Activities that in winter may be classified as prosaic tasks are joyfully completed when the warm wind blows and sunlight has dispersed the shadows around the home. The windowpanes are more gladly polished; the shaking of rugs and the sweeping of walks have a music that marks the springtime. Each homemaker in her own domain senses anew that the aisles of renewal represent the beginning of a journey into summer. Her duties, as the mistress of a home, are illumined and lightened when a woman realizes that the approaches to an abundant year are pathways of lasting accomplishment for one who guards the home and makes its walls and its doors and its windows beautiful for her own fulfillment and for the everlasting welfare of her children. It is appropriate in springtime and every day of every season, for a mother to remember that the early years are an eternal season whose sunlight and shadow will never depart from the landscape of life.; It would be a blessing and a fulfiliment, if, in the days of spring our whole selves might be tuned to gratitude and rejoicing, and that we might remember the parable of the sower — words spoken to the "great multitudes' by Jesus, when he ''went into a ship'' on the sea of Galilee: Behold, a sower went forth to sow; And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side.... Some fell upon stony places.... And some fell among thorns.... But other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold... (Matthew 13:2-8). —V. P. C. Anna B. Hart Mary V. Cameron Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Wealtha S. Mendenhall Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Elsa T. Peterson Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Fanny S. Kienitz Lila B. Walch Evon W. Peterson Elizabeth B. Winters Lenore C. Gundersen Aleine M. Young LaRue H. Rosell Marjorie C. Pingree Josie B. Bay Jennie R. Scott Darlene C. Dedekind Alberta H. Christensen Alice L. Wilkinson Cleone R. Eccles Mildred B. Eyring Irene W. Buehner Edythe K. Watson Edith P. Backman Irene C. Lloyd Ellen N. Barnes Winniefred S. Manwaring Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Elna P. Haymond Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Celestia J. Taylor Myrtle R. Olson Alice. C. Smith 187 The Red Cross Its Field of Service Robert W. Sarnoff Volunteer National Co-Chairman 1965 Campaign for Members and Funds The American Red Cross If any one word typifies the Sixties, the word is change. The American Red Cross is busy reassessing and readjusting to new circumstances and developments. While its traditions of service remain constant, the Red Cross has taken two especially significant steps to expand and improve services. One innovation is the grouping of metropolitan and surrounding chapters into cooperative arrangements called "combined service territories." Through this plan, existing volunteer and staff resources of each Red Cross chapter are available to all chapters in the area, enabling them better to serve disaster victims, the mushrooming suburbs, and other emerging needs. The second vital change involves the updating of the volunteer structure in Red Cross chapters. Under the new plan, volunteers receive a basic training course followed by additional training for the specific job they are going to do. With this approach, volunteers will be able to vary their service according to their talents and available free time. They will be able to meet changing needs of people who require Red Cross help. Last autumn, the ARC Board of Governors issued an official mission statement for the organization. The American Red Cross is the instrument chosen by the Congress to help carry out the obligations assumed by the United States under certain international treaties known as the Geneva or Red Cross Conventions. Specifically, its Congressional charter imposes on the American Red Cross the duties to act as the medium of voluntary relief and communications between the American people and their armed forces, and to carry on a system of national and international relief to prevent and mitigate suffering caused by disasters. All the activities of the American Red Cross and its chapters support these duties. Nationally and locally the American Red Cross is governed by volunteers, most of its duties are performed by volunteers, and it is financed by voluntary contributions. The new Red Cross theme for 1965, "Join Up—Join In," conveys the two ways the American people can help their neighbors and their friends around the world. The slogan emphasizes that in making a contribution every citizen becames a member of the American Red Cross. In addition, it urges everyone to "Join In" by becoming an active volunteer, giving his time and skills to the many services carried on by the Red Cross. 188 Ramona W. Cannon Dr. Helen Brooke Taussig is the new head of the American Heart Association, the first woman executive head of this organization in the forty years of its existence. Dr. Taussig retired last year after forty-three years as physicianin-charge of the Cardiac Clinic of the Harriet Lane Home of Johns Hopkins Hospital. In July 1964, she received the Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award which the United States bestows in peacetime. Her citation reads in part: ''Physician, psychologist, embryologist, her fundamental concepts have made possible the modern surgery of the heart which enables countless children to lead productive lives." Wanda Landowska, the Polish artist of the harpsichord, has been memorialized in the book Landowska on Music (edited and translated by Denise Restout and Robert Hawkins, Stein and Day Press), published in January 1965. Landowska, who died five years ago, achieved "'shadings and majestic effects seemingly impossible on her instrument, and no one could equal her in bringing to independent life Bach's intertwined melodies."' She has left a legacy of unparalleled recordings, and comments on these are included in the book, with "articles, scoldings, commentaries, and pensees,"' which present much instruction and inspiration for musicians and lovers of music. Ten women were elected to Congress in the United States election, November 3, 1964. Nine incumbents retained their seats: Francis P. Bolton (Ohio); Charlotte T. Reid (Illinois); Catharine May (Washington); Florence P. Dwyer (New Jersey); Leonor Sullivan (Missouri); Edna Kelly (New York); Edith Green (Oregon); Julia Butler Hansen (Washington); Martha Griffiths (Michigan). A newcomer to Congress is Patsy Mink who represents Hawaii, the first woman of Oriental ancestry to serve in Congress. Mrs. Amada Davis Orton, San Diego, California, is one of the few women who have ever driven a stagecoach. As a young girl in Tooele County, Utah, she drove the stagecoach for her father, David E. Davis, whose contract covered the route from Vernon to Faust, and back again. In a recent interview, Mrs. Orton, now eighty-three years old, summarized her unique adventure: 'My father was a cripple who had lost one leg in an accident. That never bothered his driving, but that barley spear in the eye did. | had to drive for him. | drove two big fine horses' and never had any trouble, although | had to go through Skull Valley." Mrs. Orton was a schoolteacher for many years and then practiced nursing. She still works as a nurse, saying, "'! Go when they need me. That is my reason for carrying on." 189 ll ce ep % H, my... Will you look Latter-d ay C)« that!" I exclaimed, as Matthew and I drove along S aint the foot of Pendle Hill in the valley of the River Ribble, Lan- -. Cashire, England. Against rain Tra 7 is A lo m 4 blue clouds hanging low over the ae 4 — hill, and against vivid green | _ slopes, great patches of purple t h e ie iver heather heralded the glory I had come to find. The hill dominates *5 6.8 a the river just before it bends Ribble ini northward into Yorkshire. I had come to see the cities and villages ae <4 of the earliest Latter-day Saint Northern mission in foreign lands and to bring to life, for myself, the work of the elders who labored in Englan d Preston and the surrounding area under the leadership of Heber C. Claire Noall Kimball, in 1837. The group of missionaries, RATED. Av sue lee which included Elders Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, Joseph Fielding, and others, arrived in Liverpool three days after Queen Victoria had become ruler of the British Empire. The first Latter-day Saint sermon in the British Isles was delivered by Heber C. Kimball on the Sabbath, July 23, 1837, in Preston, Lancashire. These brethren established the Church in Northern England so strongly that today the saints of this area comprise many staunch centers of devotion and activity.* Before we reached the valley of the River Ribble we had enjoyed a glorious drive from Southern England as my husband and I moved through the pages of history from Stonehenge, to our own period of time. We had seen St. Ives and Lynton, villages on the Bristol Channel, from which Matthew's paternal grandparents had emigrated to Utah. We had visited Southwark Cathedral, where two of my great-grandparents were married. In London, we recalled the hardships of Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball on his second mission in 1840. We knew how they had tried to publish The Book of Mormon there. But a real joy coursed through my veins when we later visited the John Benbow farm in the Malvern Hills near Ledbury, about a hundred and twenty miles south of Preston. From the faithful convert, John Benbow, Brigham Young obtained the funds which made possible the printing of the Book of Mormon in England. *See Nibley, Preston: The British Mission, The Relief Society Magazine, April 1956, p. 218 Whitney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, pp. 113-204 190 LATTER-DAY SAINT TRAILS ALONG RIVER RIBBLE We reached the Benbow farm from Ledbury just in time for a picture of the tiny pool where Wilford Woodruff, in 1840, baptized some 500 converts. I stood for a moment in prayer before the house where Willard Richards once took Brigham Young to meet 'Brother John." I knew that John Benbow had again provided funds for the Church when he gave his bond for the Prophet Joseph Smith in Carthage, Illinois. In the deepening light, I remembered how Sister Benbow had left these peaceful acres for Nauvoo, Illinois. She died from fever on the banks of the Mississippi River. The focal point of our journey, Preston, is located thirty miles north of Liverpool, near the mouth of the Ribble, well within the tidal waters of the Irish Sea. My blood tingled when I was led by a devoted sister from the chapel where we had attended sacrament meeting, along the path of our earliest missionaries in Preston. We paused on the bank of the river where the first Latter-day Saint baptisms occurred in England. On the eighth day after the arrival of the elders in Preston, nine converts went into the water. Among them was Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, who was crippled, and whose husband carried her into the Ribble. Miraculously, after her baptism she walked up the bank on her own two feet. I saw Pole Street, near the factories of the city, where the Walmsleys lived, and the home of Sister Jane Dawson, where Heber C. Kimball roomed. In this house much important business for the Church was transacted. From Stoney Gate, we saw the historic "Cock Pit." It is a "commodious" building having circular rows of seats, formerly used as a "sporting" arena. We walked to Vauxhall Chapel, the scene of Elder Kimball's first sermon in Lancashire. In the market place at the foot of the obelisk (an English-constructed monument), Brother Kimball explained the gospel to Jennetta Richards. This girl, the younger daughter of the independent minister at Walkerfold (some twenty winding miles above Preston), had heard of the healing of Sister Walmsley. Two days after hearing her first sermon Jennetta requested baptism. She was confirmed at the water's edge, and thus became the first to receive this blessing in England. Later, when about to leave in a cart for home, her eyes filled with tears. "Oh, what shall I tell my father?" she asked Elder Kimball. "Tell him exactly what you have done," he replied, 'and ask him to invite me to preach in his chapel." The Reverend Richards gave the invitation. Sadly for him, more than half of his small parish went over to the Mormons. Walkerfold became the nucleus of many branches. We drove over Longridge Fell, a long-crested hill and found it brilliant with heather. Here Jennetta walked with Willard Richards to conference at Ribchester. This town, once a Roman fort on the Ribble, still bears the sign of the White Bull Inn, which the elders saw in 1837. 191 ews TO — | LITTONDALE; ARNCLIFFE i A) i ) = SETTLE (, Sq) f, | a" ~"s GISBURN i ' ~ ' te, 9 Aeiitucea WALKERFOLD" SO = = | Vy | PENDLE HILL LONGRIDGE FELL ~~ RIBCHESTER © -. Giv" 4 sev wv PRESTON a AMC ASHIVE MALVERN HILLS BENBOW ) | ) TO LEDBURY | Brother Kimball predicted that Willard and Jennetta would marry; and so they did, in September 1838. We had visited such towns as Eccleston, Blackburn, Walton-leDale (home of William Clayton), Burnley, and Chatburn, In th 192 j | | e - y "LEDBURY The Hodder River, tributary of the River Ribble, Lancashire, England Pendle Hill— A Landmark for the Missionaries Pool on the Benbow Farm, Where Many Converts to the Church Were Baptized last-named village, newly converted saints once followed Heber C. Kimball through the winding street, crying, ''"Oh, how can we see you go?" (Elder Kimball had to return to America for a season.) He wrote that his eyes were 'fountains of tears'" when he bade these loyal people goodbye, even for a time. But now we wanted to drive through the dales and over the moors to Gisburn and Settle, on the way to Ribblehead. The missionaries had walked to these more distant places. Near Skipton, Matthew and I suddenly left the main road, lonely as it was among the limestone crofts. I had seen a sign which pointed the way to Arncliffe, the birthplace of Nanny Longstroth. As the road grew' steeper and narrower, I asked a woman who was standing in a doorway, whether we could drive to Arncliffe. We could drive there, she doubtfully agreed, but we would have a terrible time coming doon the track. Reluctantly, we turned around. Suddenly I told myself that this was no way to do any kind of research. Again I put the question, but with a difference, and to another woman: "Can we drive to Edinburgh from Arncliffe?" "Oh, yes!" came the reply, in a high, clear Lancashire voice. "You'll need to open only about twelve gates as you drive through the crofts. You'll love it!" I breathed love every foot of the way. I was fascinated by the sheep I brushed against as I was opening and closing the gates in 194 Meadow Street, Preston, England the stone walls. We left the Ribble at Pen-y-Ghent and drove over the tops to Littondale in the valley of the Wharfe. To us the farms now seemed extremely remote. The far-spaced stone houses, used today for storage, appeared almost deserted despite the flourishing fields. Not until evening did we reach Arncliffe on the Skirfare. We went to the Falcon Inn in this historic village, homeplace of the Longstroths. With a feeling of deep gratitude for having shared the essence of remoteness and of beginnings in this lovely country, I fell silent, recalling the events of those early years and their significance in the missionary program of the Church. Since that earliest mission in 1837, thousands of converts of English heritage have joined the Church, and many of its devoted leaders throughout the world are of this ancestry. In England, today, there are five stakes: Leeds, Leicester, London, Manchester, and Sunderland; and six missions: British, Central British, North British, Northeast British, South British, - and Southwest British. Never in any of my travels can I hope to have names become places more vividly than did the towns we visited as Matthew and I made our way along the winding course of the Ribble, and finally to the moor of the Skirfare at whose foot is located the charming village of Arncliffe. Arncliffe, Home of the Longstroths The Author, Claire W. Noall, in the Foreground Morning Star Ethej Jacobson High Overhead Larks Call on the Wing, Caves 197 Vers Displays and Handwork by Florence C. Williams (From the Work Meeting Exhibit at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1963) pO Es ee ~~ | TRANSPARENCIES BY VERNON SHARP The white knitted sweaters are embroidered in floral designs of colored wool, using the lazy-daisy and other basic embroidery stitches. The red skirt in the lower picture is made of poodle cloth and embroidered with wool. 198 Springtime Relief Society Party Ninth Ward, Monument Park Stake TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL A springtime theme was effectively carried out for the closing social in the Ninth Ward, Monument Park Stake. The colorful maypoles were made from styrofoam sticks, but they could be made from cardboard rollers (used with paper towels, aluminum foil, or waxed paper). The poles were wound with L streamers of yellow, pink, and blue crepe paper, each of which was tied to a paper doll. The dolls were made with wooden clothespins for the body, the top of the clothespins painted to make faces, and the arms were made from pipe cleaners. Each doll had a ''lovely'' hair made from a wire dish cloth, ''topped off' with a paper hat. A circle of yellow dandelions adorned the base of the maypoles. Bare branches of shrubs and trees were decorated with crepe flowers to make the blossomed boughs. Large crepe flowers were placed in a row as decorative motifs in front of the stage in the cultural hall. The dolls were made by Lorna Broadbent, and the social was planned under the direction of Julia L. Houston, then ward President, and her Counselors Rosell Judkins and Edna Hendricks. Lorna Broadbent is the present President of the Ninth Ward Relief Society, and Marian Boyer is President of Monument Park Stake Relief Society. 199 Federal Heights Ward Harvest Holiday Federal Heights Ward Emigration Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah The Federal Heights Ward Harvest Holiday featured rustic and unique decorative designs, supervised by May Benson. The targe colored wheels illustrated in the lower picture were made from ''hula'' hoops, with the burlap covering material gathered in the center to represent a hub. Entertainment for children and teen-agers was provided by a fish pond and a specially selected ''cinema'"' of cartoons. A 'Kiddie Korral'' was enclosed by a fence decorated with cowboy hats. The children entered the "Korral"' through a ''western'' gate, at five cents each, and found a band of ''walking and riding horses." The many varieties of foods, including homemade candies and pastries, were served buffet style throughout the evening. Every Relief Society member participated in making the '"'Holiday'"' an outstanding success. Top picture: Helen Lee Goates, President, Federal Heights Ward Relief Society, and Winnifred Sanders, ''head candy maker." Counselors in the ward presidency are Geraldine Callister and Margaret B. Adamson; work meeting leader: Donna T. Smart. Beth L. Belliston is President of Emigration Stake Relief Society. TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL windmill, and the sister in the booth wore an authentic Dutch costume. Tacoma Stake Bazaar Displays Submitted by Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society Representing Samoa was Tacoma Seventh Ward. Many other lovely items were displayed along with Relief Society handwork. Tacoma First Ward represented Ireland. The booth was decorated with green shamrocks. The sisters wore green dresses and white organdy bonnets and aprons. The Stake Board's booth was gaily decorated with red, white, and blue to depict the United States of America. As in all the booths, some especially lovely handwork was displayed and other items were priced for selling. - | te! Ry. Ee F +. " 7 Around the World Bazaar Booth Representing Italy Holladay Sixteenth Ward Mount Olympus Stake Salt Lake City, Utah Mary Ellen Hanks, knitting chairman, is seen displaying a red knitted sweater made by Jelaire C. Simpson, President, Holladay Sixteenth Ward Relief Society. Also exhibited are fringed ponchos for children and adults, long and short knitted capes for women, sleeveless sweaters, long and short-sleeved sweaters, ski bands, and knitted accessories for babies. The apron display in the right background includes fancy aprons, work aprons, and cover-all aprons for children. The handwork displays represented many countries. Refreshments, served buffet style, included scones, served with honey and jam, meat pies, hamburgers, and a variety of desserts. A popular attraction was the display of homemade candy. Several special features appealed to the children—a clown carrying many balloons, large homemade all-day suckers, and a fish pond, but the highlight of the evening was a play-pen containing real live puppies—for sale. Counselors in the Holladay Sixteenth Ward: June D. England and Dorothy C. DeVroom; work meeting leader: Betty Evans, assisted by Le Isle Rasmussen. Maurine B. Folsom is President of Holladay Stake Relief Society. TRANSPARENCY SY HAL RUMEL TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS Dorothy J. Roberts the king, probably Nebuchadnezzar, is said to have made for her a terraced, green mountain of three acres called the Hanging Gardens of Babylon — one of the seven wonders of the world.... Because an emperor of China could picture no greater boon, he fashioned for his beauteous wife a fifty-mile long garden. Because in his king's heart, as well as in the hearts of all men, surged a love for the green countryside, Louis the Fourteenth, in an era of extravagance, built the largest garden of its kind in the world on three hundred acres at Versailles. In the style of the greatest of all garden designers, Le Votre, it was a plot of green glades, clipped yews, shaped and tall-trunked trees, pavilions, elaborate statues, and fourteen hundred fountains. And because a monarch mourned for his Be his wife wept for the green hills of her Median home, 205 "+ lost empress, centuries later we stand in awe before the breathtaking beauty of her garden tomb, the Taj Mahal in India. Visions of the magnificent gardens of the world awaken in us a desire to experiment with formal gardens of our own. We find an example of formal flower gardening at Liberty Park and at the famed Peace Gardens in Jordan Park, both in Salt Lake City, Utah. Perhaps we have these, because seventy years ago, remembering the great gardens of his native Germany, Rhinehardt Keller started formal flower gardens at Liberty Park. And because he inspired his contemporaries and successors there, and taught them this fine art, Salt Lake City still has some of the rare floral beauty spots of the West, where residents and tourists can walk the paths and contemplate the history of the intricate designs and the glorious color. They can think of the vast green gardens of Europe and the exotic flaming flower beds of Peru and of Mexico, where Montezuma before his execution, was granted his last request, to see his flowers once more. Even a small garden designed to beautify the home surroundings can portray the basic principles of formal gardening. If these 208 THE SCULPTURED BEAUTY OF FORMAL GARDENS small areas of radiant color and precise design are well planned and well cared for, they can reflect, in their disciplined splendor, the garden glory of many lands and the craftsmanship of devoted gardeners along the floral paths of history. Formal Flower Gardens are designed beds of plants enclosed in various shapes which are formed symmetrically with a large compass to the sonnet form in poetry, with its classic exactness, whereas the wayward garden may be compared to free verse, wherein the subject matter creates its own design. Creatures, or abstract forms. Examples of abstract forms are flags of a country, welcome designs, kidney-shaped designs, oval, circular, rectangular shapes, or as borders for walks and boundaries. GRASSES Pennisetum ruppelii (ornamental; long plume of seed) Green (by seed) Copper (by root division) FOLIAGE PLANTS Hen and chickens (outline and edge) Santolina (sage gray-green. Clip for edges, and lines.) Alternanthera New Red Old Red Old Green (green to dark red leaves. Clip.) Arisaema (green to red) (varied colored leaves. Clip.) Dusty miller Senecio Ccineraria (almost white; lacy to broad.) Coleus Golden Bedder Hurricane Christmas Gem etc. (showy, various colors) FLOWERING PLANTS Begonia (many varieties and colors. Clip.) Sweet Alyssum (white or heather; clip only sides if needed.) Snow Cloth Pink Heather Ageratum Blue Mink (red-blue blossoms highly brilliant. Clip.) Geranium (many colors and varieties; clip or for accent.) Marigold Petite Yellow Petite Orange (edge or line. Clip.) Canna (exotic, many kinds and colors; accent.) 209 ad ' med Mary A. Kelii Makes Hawaiian Quilts Mary Kelii, Laie, Hawaii, has made more than 200 beautiful Hawaiian quilts. Each appliqued quilt takes a thousand hours to complete. Many of the designs are original with Mrs. Kelii, but some of them represent very old art patterns of the islands. Native flowers and trees, as well as historical emblems, are intricately worked into designs of striking and effective artistry. Mrs. Kelii has made a quilt for each of her children and grandchildren and for many of the Church labor missionaries in Hawaii. At the time the picture was taken, she had twenty-two fully completed quilts ready for gift giving. - Mrs. Kelii was born at Wailuku, Maui, where she spent her childhood. In 1907 she moved to Honolulu and two years later married William Kelii. They are parents of five children, two of them adopted. There are twenty-three grandchildren and twenty-four great-grandchildren. Mrs. Kelii has been a widow for many years. A member of Laie Third Ward, she is still doing ordinance work in the temple. For eighteen years she was Relief Society Secretary at Wahiawa, and has served as first and second Counselor since coming to Laie. 210 CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Elsa Breinholt leaves her native Heidelberg for Utah, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States Army. She obtains employment at a department store and moves into an apartment with three other working girls. Alone on Christmas day, she goes to a children's hospital where she meets Dr. Kirton who takes her to dinner. Tue rest of the holiday season passed quickly for Elsa. Her roommates returned, and there was a gala New Year's dance at the stake center which they all attended. Dr. Kirton called again and took her to a concert of the symphony orchestra. "You'd better keep him at a distance — from me, I mean," said Margery. "That's just the type of man I've been looking for. Handsome — sort of. ConMabel Harmer genial — as far as I know. And probably with a good income, which is extremely convenient these days." "Good luck to you, then," laughed Elsa. ''As far as I am concerned the field is wide open.". "All right. Just remember that I gave you fair warning." "T'll remember. J'll even help to promote your cause. In spite of all the fine qualities you have mentioned, my heart just doesn't ring any bells — or whatever is supposed to happen when the right man appears." Elsa was kept very busy at the store with the January sales, but early in February the blow fell. She was let out of work. "It will be only temporary,"' she was told, "until business picks up 211 MARCH 1965 4gain in the Spring —_ Possibly only a few Weeks," few Weeks of the nowltons n. She took a bus to Idaho Falls and was m t there her uncle Out to their farm jn a Munity beyond the large, Colonia] type, "Yes, I'm Sure you are right," Elsa agreed, "T hope that in time can Persuade ther and aria to come to America," 212 a hope S80, too," Uncle Fred. Erick nodded, "Many times we have thought how much better it would have been for you all if your father had decided come to America When J did." nO young age. There were bunance and yo their early teens, "Where are they all?" She asked her aunt, "Most of the are away at School, Some have Jobs in th Cities, There isn't Much work on the farms to keep them bus here have 4 80 else. Where.". "That S too bad," Elsa re. Plied. «7 Was so different in Salt Lake Ci Many young People have Come there to work at ther no Church jobs Or some." "Yes," agreed her aunt, "T¢ IS too 5 Ways Young the Church for their Own growth. There Should © a job for every. One," During the following Week the superintendent of the Sunday School, who was a _ neighbor, dropped in to call. "As long as you are here," he said, "why not teach a class for us? Right now we are especially short because of illness and other reasons." "I'd be glad to help," she replied. "Of course I don't know how long I shall be here. It may be only a couple of weeks. I am hoping to get back to my work in Salt Lake before very long." "Even once will help," he said. "We'll expect you next Sunday. I'll drop by tomorrow and leave the lesson outline. The group consists of the twelve-year-olds, and they are pretty lively. You'll have to be on your toes to hold their interest." "That doesn't surprise me — or frighten me too much. I'll do my best." She worked hard at the lesson and was able to put it over as well, or perhaps better, than she had expected. "I don't know whether they were intrigued with my accent," she said to her aunt, "or were really interested in the lesson. But, at any rate, they didn't run out on me, or start any games." On Tuesday she went to Relief Society and, when the organist was unable to come, volunteered to play for the singing. "What a wonderful help you could be in a ward like this," said her aunt. "I don't wish you any bad luck, but I can't help wishing that the store wouldn't call you back for a long time. Besides, it is such a pleasure to have a young person in the house again. I only wish there were more young folks for company." THE TURN OF THE WHEEL THE Sunday School class continued to need her help and so did the Relief Society. One day she said to her uncle, "I think that I have had my eyes opened. You say that I am needed here. I have been thinking how much more I am needed back home. You came out to help build up the Church. But now the wheel has turned. I am not needed here." "Oh, but you are!" Uncle Frederick exclaimed. "You have been a great help." "Then think how much more I am needed back in Heidelberg where the branch isn't half the size of your ward." "No," her uncle insisted. "You must not think of going back. We will find you a job here. I am sure you can get something to do over in Idaho Falls. Then we will find you a young man. That will keep you here for sure." Something in her expression made him pause. "Perhaps you have a young man back there. Is that the reason you think of returning?" Elsa hesitated. She hadn't quite thought that angle completely out. "There is a young man whom I met not long before I left," she said, "by the name of Karl Ernst. He seemed to be rather attracted to me. Mother thinks he is wonderful. There is also an American boy in Heidelberg right now, who belongs to our Church. It was his family in Salt Lake who sponsored me when I came over. Either of them could have other interests by now — although I do get letters from both." 213 MARCH 1965 "And the American will be coming home before long, I suppose? Then we shall do all we can to promote his cause," Uncle Frederick declared. ''Unless, of course, we find someone else for you here in the meantime." THe more Elsa thought about it, the more convinced she _ became that her place lay back in Heidelberg. However, money was now the big question. It would take between four and five hundred dollars at the very minimum to go back. She didn't have one tenth of that amount. Even if she were fortunate enough to go back to her job in Salt Lake right away, it would take a couple of years to save that much. Her living expenses took the greater part of. Her salary. On the following Tuesday she went to Relief Society as usual with Aunt Edith. The president asked for help for a Sister Dawson who had recently undergone an operation on her back. She would be down for at least three months and there were four small children — all boys. The family would pay one hundred dollars a month, and the need was desperate. Elsa sat through the rest of the meeting thinking. I could save nearly all of that, since I wouldn't be paying room and board. It would be the _ best possible way to save enough money to return. Besides — the need is desperate. Why shouldn't T volunteer to help? Later she spoke to the president and offered to take the work. "Can you go over tomorrow?" asked Sister Larson. 214 "Yes. I have no obligations. I can go any time and stay as long as I am needed." When Elsa told her uncle about it that evening he was rather dubious. '""You don't know what you're getting in for," he warned. "Those four boys are plenty rough. I'm sure that we can find something easier for you, if you will just let us try." "T'd rather do this," she replied. "It sounds as if this family needs me more than anyone else possibly could." "Yes, I guess there's no doubt about that. Well, if you decide later that you can't stand it, you can always find a refuge back here." "Thanks. I'll remember that." Mir. Dawson came to call for her early the next morning. "This won't be easy," he said, "but I'll help all that I can. The eldest boy is ten and the youngest is four. They are a houseful, even with their mother in charge. Fortunately, the eldest two are in school during the week." "T think that I can manage all right," she said. "At any rate, I am willing to try." "Good. It takes a tremendous load off my mind. My mother was here while Janet was in the hospital, but it was too much for her. Anyway, she is needed in her own home." They drove up to a rather small brick house. It was neat enough on the outside, but when Elsa stepped inside the front door it looked as if the proverbial cyclone had stirred everything around. Mr. Dawson looked at once stricken and apologetic. "Don't worry," smiled Elsa. "There's nothing that can't be put to rights again." He showed her to her bedroom, then took her in to meet his wife. Mrs. Dawson reached out both her hands. '"'You're an angel to come," she said. "I didn't expect you to look like one in the bargain." "Thanks," said Elsa. "The resemblance ends right there. I have never yet acted like one." "I'm not so sure. The fact of your coming here at all goes a long way toward qualifying you." Mr. Dawson had to leave at once for his work and Elsa set about hers. She put the kitchen to rights, scrubbing the floor and cleaning up the range. Then she went into the living room where the two younger boys had made a tent by bringing chairs together in the middle of the room and covering them with a bedspread. She decided to let well enough alone for the present, since they were happily occupied, and to clean the bathroom and other bedrooms. When she returned to the living room it was strangely silent. She looked under the tent but it was quite vacant. "Now what — or where?" she wondered, in some alarm. She went to the mother's bedroom and asked, "Did the boys come in here?" "No. Have they disappeared? You'd better look outside. They should have on wraps, if they go out in this weather." They should, indeed, thought Elsa — with a foot of snow on the ground. She slipped on her own coat THE TURN OF THE WHEEL and stepped outside. The boys were nowhere to be seen. Thinking that they were possibly still in the house, she went back and looked quickly through the other rooms. There was no sign of any boys. Four and six years old. Why they were just infants! They couldn't possibly have gone very far. She didn't want to worry Mrs. Dawson so she went out again. There were some _ buildings at the rear of the house, probably a barn and chicken coop. That was. The most logical hiding place, she decided. She looked inside both and called repeatedly, but there was no reply. As she came out again she saw Teddy, the four-yearold, coming up the walk. "Get in the house quickly!" she called. "You shouldn't be out with no coat. Where is your brother?" "Over there. In the big ditch," he replied, pointing across the field. "Merciful goodness, no!" Elsa gasped. "Not that!" "You go in the house," she commanded. "I'll get brother." Sue ran through the field to where a ridge of earth evidently outlined a canal. Before she reached the bank she could hear Mark screaming. Thank goodness, he's alive, anyway, she thought. She raced to the canal and there was Mark, standing in water up to his waist, in a hole he had broken through the ice. How to get him out was her big problem now, without falling through herself. She decided there was no other way. She couldn't take time to go back 215 MARCH 1965 and get a rope, even if she knew where to find one. She took one step off from the bank and for a moment thought the ice might hold. But before she could reach the boy she had fallen through into the icy water. Seizing his arms, she pulled with all her might and managed to lift him out and drag him to the bank. They stood there shivering with cold and fright. "Come along fast,'' she said. "We've got to get you back home again and warm, before you catch pneumonia." She rushed him down through the field and into the house. In the bathroom she stripped off his clothes and put him in a tub of warm water, then into bed. "Now you stay. There until you. Are good and warm," she commanded, "and be mighty glad that you're in a nice, cozy bed." She refrained from adding "instead of the canal." She quickly changed her own wet clothing next and then went out to the kitchen to look for Teddy. She found him on top of the refrigerator enjoying the contents of a jar of strawberry jam by means of his fingers. By the time he was cleaned up, it was noon and she had to prepare lunch. The front room still had its tent, and there was a clothes basket in the kitchen piled high with clothes to be ironed. She gritted her teeth and went on. Another day couldn't possibly be this bad. It just wasn't possible. But the rest of the day was. After the bad start in the morning she simply could not get caught up with the work. 216 She was also handicapped by being new in the house and not knowing where to find anything or where to put anything. By the time supper was over, she was completely exhausted. When Uncle Frederick came over, bringing two letters from Germany, she didn't know whether to laugh or cry. She read her mother's first, as always. It told of news among family and friends and, as usual, she wrote how kind and helpful Karl had been and how wonderful it was to have such a good friend at hand. The letter produced the worst case of homesickness she had suffered since leaving Heidelberg. The other letter was from Clay. It also, as usual, was full of quips and fun. "I expect to be home in June," he said, "and, much as I regret leaving this lovely city I shall be more than compensated by finding Heidelberg's fairest flower in Salt Lake City." Would he find her there? At any rate, she would still be in the country. She couldn't possibly save enough money to leave before July. Unless she could hold out here at Dawson's, she couldn't even save enough to leave by then. And a few more days like this one would certainly be her finish. Was she doing the right thing to try and return anyway? She looked out through her bedroom - window and saw a single great star shining in the west. Surely, if she sought guidance, she would choose the right path. On that blessed thought she fell asleep. (To be continued) The Little | White m Janet W. Breeze a Onze of the early memories of my childhood concerns the subject of tithing. I was four. My father had just passed away, and my mother had taken employment in a downtown department store. I don't remember how the subject came up, but I vividly remember Mother saying, "You have more money when you pay your tithing." Like a typical four-going-onfive, I asked, "How come?" "Because," she said, "when you give the Lord his money first, that leaves you with less. With less money, you watch it more closely. And when you avoid spending money foolishly, you have more." Even though I still didn't know the difference between a dime and a dollar, outside of their physical size, what my mother said made sense. But, like a good teacher who recognizes the value of repetition, she made certain that the first time she told me was not the Ce eS sy last time she told me. And, as I grew older, I was encouraged to make my first "little white box." It turned out to be quite a production. I painted it all up with fancy flowers; and on the center of the lid, in macaroni alphabets, I glued the letters t-i-t-h-i-n-g. Even though, as I became a career girl, the little white box was later replaced by numbers in an account book and checkbook, by the time I entered matriage, tithing was a natural and acceptable part of my life. Since then, things have happened which have convinced me more thoroughly than ever that the Lord does bless us when we comply with the things he asks of us. One of many incidents stands out in my mind. It was shortly after our first baby was born. My husband was an enlisted man in the army. We lived comfortably, but somehow, the money we had just didn't seem to want to stretch into the shape of baby 217 MARCH 1965 furniture; and we were too far away from home to borrow a crib from relatives. Since babies have to have someplace to sleep, it was a temptation to buy a crib rather than pay our tithing. But we didn't give in. THEN, a mysterious letter came in the mail. It was from the Department of the Army and. Was addressed to me. It stated that through some oversight, my allotment checks had not: started as soon as they should. Enclosed I would find a check correcting the error made over a year before. Even though it was money we should have received anyway, we deemed it a great blessing that the money had somehow been saved until a time when we could better use it. This was just one occasion. There have been other times when unexpected blessings have come to us. I am sure that the Lord does not bless everyone in the exact same way. However, whether it has been the result of Mother's practical view toward tithing, or unexpected sources of income, we feel very strongly that our blessing for the payment of tithing has been financial security. Now it is our duty to share this wonderful law of tithing with our children. As soon as that first precious baby grew into a little girl with a piggy bank, we told her about tithing. At that time, we had a weekly "home night" that consisted of a story about Jesus, Ring-Around-theRosy, and an ice-cream cone. One night, before the ice-cream cone, we sat at the kitchen table, and with white paper, glue, and. Crayons, we decorated a "little white. Box," which read: Claudia's Tithing. Thereafter, each home night - Daddy gave her ten pennies. One penny was to go in the little white box. And nine were to go in her piggy bank. Last December, Claudia carried the little white box to her first tithing settlement. The bishop handed her a receipt, and we explained what it was. She later told her grandmother, "This paper means I gave Heavenly Father back his money." Grandmother was so pleased she opened her handbag and brought forth two nickles. She said, "'For a very good little girl." Claudia took the money to her bedroom. She put one nickel in her piggy bank — and one in her little white box. Is a child ever too young to be taught the gospel? Strenzeth to Grow Carolle Denton | stepped through my doorway One busy afternoon, Tired from household chores; | saw a violet, delicate, fragrant, With snow stars prismed on lavender petals Winter bound until spring, Blooming when others wither from icy breath. | went back to daily duties with a smile, Determined to give my family What the violet had given me. 218 THE sun caressed Midge's back as she worked lovingly in her flower garden. Each spring she looked foward to replanting and taking care of her flowers. Each blossom she tended gently as if it were a child. With a feeling of accomplishment, Midge looked over her work of the afternoon. She was beginning to see progress in the little garden spot, and she hoped that the flowers would be as lovely this season as they had been last year. Faintly Midge heard the clock in her kitchen chime three. Soon her three children would be bounding in the house from school, and, as usual, they would be starving. I've just time to get cleaned up before I start dinner, Midge mused, very satisfied with herself and her day. Few women received more satThe Right Direction Betty Lou Martin isfaction out of life than did Midge. She gained such pleasure in doing little things, things that would be considered monotonous to some women. I guess that I'll always enjoy sewing buttons on Fred's shirts, taking care of the children, cooking, cleaning. Midge was deep in thought as she combed her dark brown hair. She still had the look of a young woman, although she readily admitted to forty-five. Her delicate features and her always ready smile made her a very charming person, although she was not beautiful. Life in Danville had been good to Midge. The reward of her children, watching them grow up, and teaching them the worthwhile things in life were important to her. The youngest child, ten-year-old Sue, was a delight, she was so unselfish. David had just turned fourteen. He was so 219 MARCH 1965 like his father, with winning ways. The only child who had caused them any worry was Debbie. She was sixteen, a very attractive girl, bright and intelligent in every respect. She was very conscious of her school activities and friends. "I'm home, Mom," called, "Where are you?" "Right here, David," Midge answered her son. Next, Sue rushed into the house with the news that Barbara's cat had a new batch of kittens. '""Please, Mother, may we have one? Barbara said that we could." "TI suppose so, dear. Now settle down." Midge smoothed her daughter's ruffled hair. 'Did you see Debbie on the way from school?" David munched on a cookie. "She said to tell you that she has a meeting tonight, and that she'll be a little late. Honestly, I don't think that it's a meeting at all. I think it's just a gab session." "David, don't be unkind. You know that your sister takes her meetings seriously,'"' Midge reprimanded. David It was just before dinner, when Debbie finally came home. Although Midge could have used her daughter's assistance, she never suggested that Debbie try to get home from school a little earlier than usual. "Whew, what a day, Mother. I'm just about tired out." Debbie slumped onto a kitchen chair. "What's for dinner?" "Roast beef, tonight, Debbie." Midge checked the roast.. "It's just about ready. What was this meeting all about?" 220 "Qh, we've just been planning our prom, but we don't know for sure whom to have on the committee. Some of the kids just won't do any work. We need someone who will really get in and work for us." Midge thought for a moment. "What about the new girl who just moved in down the street, Lee Ann Bradley? I understand that they are a very nice family. Lee Ann is your age." "Oh, Mother, really, have you seen her? She isn't at all like the group of girls that count at school." "Really, Debbie, I hadn't noticed. She is a very pretty girl. Her family is not too well off financially at the present, but I am sure that they would allow her to help on the committee." "That isn't it, Mother. It's the way that she dresses. She just isn't with it, and I wouldn't want anyone to think that I went around with her." Midge could hardly believe her daughter's words. She had always tried to teach her children respect for other people as individuals, and now her own daughter was talking like a snob. Turning to Debbie, Midge felt more disappointment in her daughter than anger. "Debbie, I'm surprised at you. I don't want to hear you speak that way again ever." It was a dazzling spring day on which Midge and Sister Riley had chosen to do their visiting teaching. The sky was cloudless and its azure-blue framed a fresh world that was just beginning to awaken. "'We're fortunate that our dis- e answered the door cheerfully, Instantly Midge | 1 caught up younger one have any friends yet. Sh It Was to make riends,"' "T'm Sure she Will get along Just fine," Midge answered and Wondered Why she Should entertain Builty f lings After all, wha Could she if ebbie didn't ant to have L nn a 4 friend? Sister Riley looked at Mrs. Bradley, "Seems | e ouldn't Pick hey d Ss friends, Nor did She want THE RIGHT DIRECTION to. She Wouldn't have wanted her own parents to pick her friends. However, She knew that whether Debbie Wanted Lee Ann f, friend or not, she 'Was in a position to introduce the gir] t least, head her in er, I just can't; the gang at I am Square jf | Midge as silent for 4 moment. "You know, ie, David will Ways get along in life, and J think that [I know Why he s SO many f lends, He Oves People, accepts th M as th are, and he Certainly es Not put himself above them e€one needed be th Irst to here It isn't th Ings ¢ € can for our Selves t agnif as lVi e t You are very much, How if you Were Lee With go you fee] MARCH 1965 made life seem wondrous and good, and people remarked on the flower's beauty. However, when it turned brown and wilted away, no one praised it any more. Midge did not want her children to be as a flower. She wanted them to stay young and good in their hearts always. The next day Debbie and Midge were pointedly polite to one another, and the subject of Lee Ann, as Midge had promised, was not mentioned again. Debbie continued to be busy with her meetings, and she was helping to plan a party that one of her friends was having. She spoke very little to any member of the family, even David com- 'mented on his sister's solemnness. "What's wrong with Debbie, Mom? She used to chatter all the time. Now she'll hardly talk." "'She's busy and engrossed in her school work, David. That's all," As was the habit of Midge and Fred, they always waited up for Debbie and David when they were out at night. The evening of Debbie's friend's party, Midge settled herself in an easy chair with a magazine, prepared to wait for Debbie's return home. "Where's Debbie gone _ tonight?" Fred inquired, as he put the evening paper down. "She's gone to a party. She should be home in awhile, dear. You've got an early appointment in the morning. Why don't you go up to bed? I'll be up in a little while." Fred and Midge were always strict that the children be home on time, and Debbie, as usual, was prompt. 222 "Did you have a nice party, Debbie?" Midge called to her from the living room. Debbie walked into the room and sat across from her Mother. "It was one of the best parties we have had for a long time." Debbie seemed uneasy. "Mother, I have an apology to make to you, and I want to thank you for waking me up in time. I have been a snob. I can see that now." "What brought this on, dear? I don't understand." A puzzled expression crossed Midge's face. "Well, I got to thinking about what you said, about Lee Ann, I mean. I didn't really give her a chance. I just didn't care. We invited her to our party tonight, and it would have been our loss if we hadn't made friends with her. She's a sweet person and very talented. She's going to be on our prom committee, too." "Oh, Debbie, that's just wonderful. I'm so proud of you." Midge felt relieved. Debbie kissed her mother on the cheek. "I think that I had better get to bed early, Mother. Thanks again for just being you. I know that I've been wrapped up in myself a great deal lately, and that you could have used my help. Please forgive me. I'm going to do better. I promise." * Midge knew that when Debbie made a promise, she kept it, that was one of her qualities. What a relief it was to know that her daughter was once again headed on the right path. Must get to bed early, too, Midge thought. I've got work to do in my garden tomorrow. Those tender young plants need a little help in the right direction, too. atta eatalalaaleiminia ini SEES EX Es ES = Nurture (uriosity Ea;; Ee? = Caroline Eyring Miner oc 2 ESS VCISHCICCACS ANESTH TERRES RIERA URIOSITY keeps adults from feeling old and helps children and young people become mature. My mother lived to be nearly eighty and was curious and interested in learning everything she could until the day she died. It is invigorating to be around someone with a zest for living and learning. These people are questing every day, and life is always a high adventure. I have tried to analyze my own experiences as a child to determine whether or not this quality of being curious can be enhanced or inhibited in children. That children are naturally curious, I am certain. What is it then that keeps them so throughout life, or what makes them lose the wonder of it all and become bored? What can we as mothers do about this? I remember my mother's eager interest in the questions I asked as a child. I can see her now, her face beaming, "I've wondered about that, too! Let's look in the encyclopedia and see how a maple produces sugar." I was made to feel important because I had asked a good question, and I came to love learning partly in this way. I also knew my mother was curious about everything, and there was a feeling of "wondering awe" in our home. If when children ask, "What makes the clock tick? Why is the grass green?" they are told not to be foolish, or to mind their own business, or not to ask personal questions, or if they are told to wait until a later time for an answer, they soon become wary of asking questions. If older children in a family are allowed to ridicule younger ones when they ask questions, the young ones will soon begin to hesitate to ask questions at all. Often as children reach their teens they naturally become more self-conscious about asking questions, at least those of a personal nature, or they may decide it is smart to appear indifferent or bored about it all. Indifference and boredom, like all habits, snowball — the more they are practiced the bigger they become. Actually, a kind of mental fog sets in after so long, and the development of mind and personality is slowed up. This may be only a phase, if the habit of curiosity was nurtured earlier. Curiosity is a necessary ingredient in the make-up of a scientist, a doctor, a teacher, a farmer, a student. There would be little progress in these fields if no one asked questions or hunted answers. Children need to give their curiosity full rein — showing interest and asking questions. It is a pleasant, effective way to impress facts on their minds. It makes them self-reliant, poised, having much to talk about when the occasion arises. It leads them into new areas of discovery. As mothers, we should keep curious and eager ourselves in learning and asking questions. We should develop an inquiring atmosphere in our homes. Considering a child's question sacred, important, and helping him to find answers, is a worthwhile parental goal. We will thus be helping to nurture eager, interested scientists, teachers, or just people with a zest for living every minute they are alive. 223 y neighbor and I play a game. We place an imaginary frame around beauty. If one sees a striking scene, she calls, "Come,, let us frame a picture." We meet and, with a wave of the arm we strike a boundary, after we decide what to include for beauty and balance, as does an artist painting landscapes. On a morning following a lashing winter blizzard, we venture out to slice out a section of the high Wasatch Mountain range to the east, at whose feet our town nestles. All is snowbound, and thoroughly clean, vegetation and trees methodically frosted. We place the frame to enclose an expanse of mountains where fog patches snuggle promiscuously in forked canyons, and raise it to include a line of clear, cobalt sky that presses the horizon. Against the frame's edge, we may align some frizzed boughs of evergreen pine in our dooryard, for foreground interest. We take time and pride in these delightful painting projects. When our scene is outlined to our satisfaction, we stand back and enjoy it. Another winter scene may be the huge snowman on our spacious lawn, the cooperative effort of all neighborhood children. We maneuver to get a good perspective of stovepipe hat, carrot nose, coal eyes, and angled broom in a crooked arm. This requires a rectangle outline to include the snow-burdened lilac tree and bridal wreath against the house. We frame it deep to catch the myriad tromped tracks in the foreground, and wide to include the spider-web design of miniature dirt roads bared by rolled snowballs leading in. Possibly, after a siege of fog, when glistening tinsel clings tenaciously to everything tangible, we may decide to frame the towering weeping-willow tree on the corner. Hoary with frost, all of its lithe branches are reverently bowed, as if in prayer. Telephone poles, strung with fleecy, white wool yarn, trail off down the street. These we cut in, for added interest. 224 FRAMED BEAUTY In June, we may meet and frame the first, fresh, full-blown Peace rose. We meditate with care just where to place an oval frame for this close-up. Beside the rose, we angle in a single bud and some distinct leaf pattern foliage. Flowers are for framing! Sunset scenes are the most colorful, but require faster decisions since they are fleeting. Often we strike a boundary around a peaceful, pink panorama, with emphasis on smooth evenness of clouds. We lower it to enclose projecting horizon angles and the reflective mauve on shadowed, gray mountains. Or we may catch on our canvas an area above the horizon, and watch only rampant, red clouds, resembling fireballs, vying for position. Sometimes in summer, we even frame what my neighbor calls scrapple — anything one is not happy to own — a cobbled, sagging barn and fence, with a wagon-wide barnyard gate, tired, off focus, dragging on its hinges. We enclose some gnarled cottonwood trees against the frame's edge. The leaf-greens and board-browns in the scene are striking. And in autumn, when every leaf becomes a flower, we are tempted to embrace the whole great east mountain in one sweep. Yellow quaking-aspen patches, orange oaks in profusion, and scarlet maple blotches combine to create a riot of color, subdued intermittently by unchanging pines. Impressive landscapes can be framed everywhere. A meandering stream, with banks edged with blooming pink tamarisk, making a cut in mountains and sky; wagon-rutted country lanes lined with poplar trees; close-ups of sego lilies or Indian paintbrushes, nestled against gray sage on low foothills; or acres of bluebells in early summer along the Sky-line Drive, against a solid, sloping background of dark junipers. This artwork requires just a bit of a sense of proportion and an eye for the beautiful. Indeed, the subjects are everywhere if seen in sections, seen with tourist eyes — with artist eyes. Frame beauty. It is fun! Reassurance Catherine B. Bowles Just a little sunshine brightens the road, Just a little patience carries the load; Just a trusting faith that will bring a light To give more courage to walk aright. 225 Relief Society Activities 41 Wika Gieoitied far ful/iieatiem om fie cepertn nt should be sent threweh i dents See remulations e@verning the submittal of Po the Vingayine for Jatinare ay¢S, page 47, and Dallas Stake (Texas) Friendship Day April 23, 1964 Standing on the "ship" of "Friendship," back of the gangplank, stake board members and sisters who gave demonstrations of Relief Society work, left to right: Zina Malouf, Christa Atkerson, Afton Ryan, Lois Willis, Juanita McDaniel, Judy Eady, Ada Schaelling, Laura Church, Lucille Molen, Virginia Marsh, Janet Ambler, Rose Andre, Leona Tillman, Florence Trimble, Dora Hess, Darlene Hansen. Ada Schaelling, President, Dallas Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each member of the twenty Relief Societies throughout the stake was invited to bring her friends to this special day which began at 10:30 A. M., with a program featuring music by the Singing Mothers. Iona Gray of Kileen spoke on 'Woman's Place in America and in the Church.' A talk was given on the origin of Relief Society and its present-day functions, followed by singing by the group 'I Want to Be a Friend of Yours.' "The women were invited into the cultural hall by two jolly sailors set up near a roped-off ship's ramp. Here the women showed keen interest in the demonstrations in progress around the hall, which included bread making, featuring freshly ground whole-wheat flour from Deaf Smith County; quilting, and a display of beautiful handmade quilts. Other crafts featured were embroidery, millinery, knitting, soap making, ribbon flowers, rug making, wax fruit shaping, marshmallows, flower arranging, corsage making, and interior decorating. "After the tour of demonstrations, luncheon was served to over four hundred women, followed by a fashion show in which the models walked the 'gang-plank' from a ship set up on the stage. The decorations for the tables also carried out the theme of a nautical occasion." 226 | Vt Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Presents ''Ideas Galore for '64'' November 6, 1964 Standing in front of the carousel, left to right: Bernita Campbell, President, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society; Eunice Loosli and Virginia Johnson, Counselors. Sister Campbell reports: 'The picture represents one of the many outstanding booths which graced the cultural hall. The theme was interestingly presented with vapor from a large foil Aladdin's Lamp, spelling out 'Relief Society Magic.' Wall decorations illustrated the raw materials such as ribbons, cans of plastic, cannisters of flour and sugar, and yardage and yarns, with the magic results being: ribbon fruits and flowers, plastic decorator grapes and plaques, delicious looking cakes, cookies, and bread; pillows, clothing, sweaters, and afghans. "In the foyer were attractive displays prepared by each class leader of the stake board illustrating her particular department. Although the public was invited, the affair was held primarily to encourage the sisters constantly to strive for excellence of workmanship and to demonstrate the importance of artistic displays at bazaars. Hostesses attended the various booths to answer questions and offer explanations regarding the items displayed. There were booths of aprons, clothing, linens, wedding ideas, ceramics, Christmas suggestions, candles for all occasions, a prize-winning table setting, a baked goods shop, plastic bottle crafts, accessories, and hobbies; a 'hi-neighbor' gift tote table, luncheon centerpieces for each season, quilts, decorator grapes (a most breathtaking display), and the carousel filled with toys. "Fruit punch was served from an attractive table decorated with lovely fresh fall flowers. Several demonstrations were held, with samples and recipes available. These included cake decorating, candy, Swedish and sweet breads, and glazed doughnuts." 227 MARCH 1965 East Jordan Stake (Utah) Former Stake Relief Society Presidents Honored at Friendship Social May 1, 1964 Helen M. Burgon, 1962-; Caroline K. Berrett, 1962; Norma Winn, 1962 (not present for the picture); Celeste D. Millerberg, 1955-57; Grace G. Thornton, 1949-1955; Vella Jones, 1945-49 (not present for the picture); Lucy B. Godfrey, 1939-1945; Alta Andrus Aylett, 1935-39; Elfreda L. Jensen, 1927-1935. Sisters Burgon reports: "Our May Friendship Day was a 'thank you' to all of our sisters. Very special tribute was given to the visiting teachers. An outstanding treat was the presentation of each of the past presidents of the stake. They were given recognition by the spoken word and presented a corsage. Our stake was organized in 1927, and all nine presidents are living, but two could not be present when the picture was taken. The film 'The Awakening' was presented, and truly enjoyed by all, especially since Caroline K. Berrett, one of our former presidents, was with us, and she had played such an important part in writing and producing this film. At the conclusion of the program, we went into the cultural hall, which was beautifully decorated for May Day, complete with May poles and wheelbarrows of fresh flowers. Tables were arranged in the center of the hall under the May pole, displaying outstanding articles made in Relief Society, many to be sold at our stake festival in the summer. A fashion show featured clothes made in a special sewing class held in Relief Society on work meeting day. The clothing was modeled by the sisters and their children. Everyone enjoyed sitting in the circles and renewing old friendships and making new friendships while they drank punch and ate homemade cookies. Printed recipe brochures were given to all, and each of the stake board members made and donated a door prize. There were about 275 in attendance." Bountiful East Stake (Utah) "Displays of Talents We Gain Through Relief Society Sharing" September 11, 1964 Blanche T. Ellis, President, Bountiful East Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Bountiful East Stake invited the women in the area to visit the 'Displays of Talents We Gain Through Relief Society Sharing.' This picture of attractive quilts is representative of the many booths and displays which made the social an outstanding event, long to be remembered in this stake. The stake Relief Society board, with the help of six ward presidencies, personally distributed 1500 invitations within the stake boundaries. The program commenced with the stake Singing Mothers presenting 'One World' and 'Why a Singing Mother Sings.' Three short skits, 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand,' excerpts from Sinclair Lewis and Emily Dickinson, and an original humorous skit, written by Marlene McBride, followed on the program. Dorothy Pratt sang 'Let All My Life Be Music.' ' "The foyer and the cultural hall were beautifully decorated, and the booths displayed knitting, a sewing room with bazaar items, a variety of home-: made rugs, and a flower garden of choice food recipes. In the center of the hall were tables covered with Christmas gift suggestions, and a tree decorated with original ornaments. Each of the six wards participated in the booths. The long refreshment table, carrying out the Relief Society colors with a blue taffeta cloth, and net over-cover, adorned with candelabra, and fruit and flower arrangements, caught one's eye immediately. Delicious, attractively arranged trays of cookies and cups of clear limeade, with a red cherry, completed the table. About 500 women attended, of whom many were nonmembers. "In the foyer, Relief Society Magazines were given to those who were not acquainted with this great missionary and teacher. Our objective was to acquaint the women with the opportunities Relief Society has to offer, and we feel a great deal was accomplished." 228 229 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Ensign Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Visiting Teachers Social May, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right, members of Ensign Stake Relief Society board: Edel McNeil, Marie Hill, Gwen Shurtleff, Josephine Sigmund, Geraldine Ballard. Standing at the left of the sisters in the front row: Pearl Whitney, member, stake board. Standing at the right of the sisters in the front row: LaDell Woolley, member, stake board. Second row, standing, left to right, officers of Ensign Stake Relief Society Board: Ruth Cutler, First Counselor; Fern Hunter, Second Counselor; Lucy T. Andersen, President; Evelyn Nelson, narrator for dramatization. Third row, standing, first and second from the left: Ros Lynn Bunting, Secretary-Treasurer, Ensign Stake Relief Society; Marie Nelson, accompanist; Yvonne Zutter; Hulda Heppley; Edith Langlois, honored as oldest visiting teacher; Hattie Angebauer, honored for the longest period of service as a visiting teacher (in print dress). Fourth row, at the left: Jewel Cutler, director of the Singing Mothers; Elaine Green, accompanist on the organ for the dramatization; Sheryl Thygenson. Sister Andersen reports: '' 'Our Wonderful World of Relief Society' was the theme for the May social honoring the visiting teachers. There were 260 sisters present, including seventy Singing Mothers. The dramatization was written by Lucy T. Andersen. Songs by the chorus and organ background music were appropriately interspersed through the narrative. Books were presented to Edith Langlois, ninety years of age, the oldest visiting teacher in the stake; Hattie Angebauer, who has been a visiting teacher continuously for fifty-five years; Sheryl Thygenson, twenty-three, the youngest visiting teacher. "There was a wonderful, uplifting, spiritual atmosphere throughout the social. Friendliness and sociability prevailed as refreshments were served in the flower-decked cultural hall." Pioneer Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Holds Social Honoring the Visiting Teachers October 19, 1964 Pioneer Stake Relief Society presidency admiring some of the handwork displays, left to right: Winifred Stanley, Second Counselor; Rosella Holmes, First Counselor; Dicie Godfrey, President. Sister Godfrey reports: 'The Pioneer Stake Relief Society held a social honoring the visiting teachers, October 19, 1964. A film strip called 'The Awakening' was shown, and the president of each of the eight wards modeled her ward fashion show's winning aprons. Four different kinds of aprons were modeled by each president. Each ward had a booth displaying a few of the lovely articles which they had made for the bazaar. After the social, tasty refreshments were served. It was a very enjoyable afternoon." Burley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Presidency Honors Ward Presidencies at Luncheon August 25, 1964 Left to right: Effie Mills, First Counselor; LaVerne Darrington, President; Jean Yarrington, Second Counselor; Helen Wood, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Darrington reports that this luncheon featured foods which can be stored. Home-grown, high-quality, energy dishes were served and displayed. Counselor Effie Mills presented a story from The Book of Mormon to illustrate the blessings which result from sharing and helping one another. Counselor Jean Yarrington showed a display of special foods that can be stored and urged the sisters to be prepared to help one another and to remember those in need. Sister Darrington advised the sisters to be thrifty and independent so that their ways can be an example for others. 230 (mgt Drud Kear, fee, lhaown) ook age Drive prads fhe weds bbs (ar aed Gad LO Spee, Chipped fyef fons ay A =f "et rsery Program East Millcreek Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Nu David Muir, David Figgat, and David Dalton are seen arranging trains and trucks on a "road rug," in the Seventh Ward nursery. Alta M. Dean, President of the stake Relief Society, reports: "Quiet play was introduced for the junior nursery as the Relief Society mothers began bringing their children. It was necessary to have something worthwhile ready to interest them and to keep controlled behavior, even before the nursery started with prayer and song. "Large flannel paper dolls with flannel clothes, were used. A train and road rug with 'bagged' trains and cars and trucks proved enjoyable. The Relief Society sisters made baby dolls and inserted them into pillow beds. Stoves were made from cardboard boxes, with supplies kept inside, including paper napkins; Scotch-tape-covered food to cook was prepared, and utensils and small-sized foil pie tins, with foil handles stapled on, were supplied. These toys were made in Relief Society during work meetings. "Certain singing-time activities were enhanced by the use of movable cardboard puppets, such as 'Farmer in the Dell.' The farmer's hands swung up and down and his mouth opens in rhythm to the music, through a simple control on the back of the puppet. The children also enjoyed making animal sack puppets for singing time. "Baking activities were loved by the youngsters of some wards. Dough was prepared prior to the meeting, and the children were scrubbed. All-alike white aprons were placed on them, which were made especially for such occasions by Sister Bea Savage, out of old sheets, to impress children with the need to be clean around food. They kneaded and rolled out individual miniature loaves of bread and watched them being placed in the oven. Later, when the bread was baked, it was served to the children. Another time, the children made and decorated cookies and passed them to mothers for workday dessert. "Such preparation teaches and impresses children. Relief Society day becomes an exciting and most important day for them. The nursery has become a learning situation, rather than a chaotic hour and a half of tears, crying, and disorderly running and jumping." 232 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 5—Fulfilling Family Obligations (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To emphasize the need for wise appraisal and correlation of family activities in order that important goals may be achieved. INTRODUCTION In this scientific age of pushbutton action and jet propulsion, we hear much about systems— such as the telephone system for communication or the weapon systems for national defense. These are complex combinations of equipment and people. In order to coordinate the operation of these components, a new kind of engineer, known as the systems engineer, has come into being. It is the function of the systems engineer (1) to define the goals which are desired; and (2) to create a combination whereby people and _ devices, working in a particular manner, may achieve these goals, fully. This is to be done with the least cost, the least effort, and in the least time. The systems engineer has been highly successful and is deemed indispensable to modern technological progress. The dictionary defines a system as "a group of diverse units so combined by nature or art into an integral whole and to function, operate, or move in unison and often in obedience to some form of control." Surely, in engineering terms, the home might aptly be called a "system," its many components being correlated through an_ operational plan called homemaking. TO BE CORRELATED The following is one half of a telephone conversation: "Perhaps I can do it, Jane, but I'm already swamped. This week is impossible. Oh, I guess not more than any other week, but anyway, I'm too busy to even think. Why? Well, you just listen! Besides washing, ironing, mending, shopping, and _ cooking, there's that community drive I'm helping with; chauffeuring for music lessons; Primary; a birthday party (Susan's dress is only half done); a dental appointment; there's a P. T. A. Meeting; Scout award night; rolls for 233 MARCH 1965 the bake sale; an apron I'm finishing for the bazaar, and this doesn't include anything for myself—you know what I mean—Relief Society, I'm a work meeting chairman you know; my Thursday night culture club, a luncheon on Friday, Family Home Evening, my half-day with grandma, and that genealogical project I'm starting. I tell you Jane, I'm simply swamped." What does this realistic conversation indicate? It indicates: 1. The complexity of modern family life. 2. That to correlate such seemingly diverse activities will require appraisal and wise organization on the part of the homemaker-engineer. 3. That the numerous details fall into several general categories. 4. That this particular homemaker is really busy—if not frustrated. Can this frustration continue indefinitely without harm to this energetic and willing mother? What would you suggest? Would assistance in organizing the housekeeping details help materially? Numerous books on homemaking are published annually, offering suggestions on scheduling of daily household duties, menu planning, time and money budgeting, the influence of attitudes and motivations. Those who author such books claim that a definite daily plan can help the homemaker by reducing the complexity to a workable daily schedule. Young mothers may profit greatly by the suggestions the best of these books offer and by such a plan. What about the more mature woman (or the older mother)? Does she need an hourly schedule? Is there danger that she may fill her days with nonessential activities, even trivial ones, 234 now that she has only older or even no children at home? Women in later years, who have reduced the varied household duties to a workable routine, may not want to be made clockconscious by. A daily and hourly time schedule. Instead, they often prefer to make a beyondroutine outline each week, listing desired goals as follows: TO DO THIS WEEK Attend Relief Society Write to married children Answer Granddaughter Susan's letter Visit Sister A—yjust returned from hospital Take casserole to Sister B—homebound Work on my life history Continue scripture reading project Attend lecture at B. Y. U. Department for Continuing Education Do visiting teaching Read to Great Aunt Sarah AN ENLIGHTENING LIST Make a list of your various affiliations, including Church and civic organizations. Give approximate time and money involved in each affiliation, membership dues, etc. Did you realize that you had so many affiliations? Are there conflicts of time, of interests? The second point brought out by the telephone conversation is that correlating the numerous activities will require a thoughtful appraisal of their importance to the general objective of homemaking. Before making this appraisal there are questions which the homemaker might well ask herself, the first of which is this: Have I actually set goals for myself, as the mother of the family, or do I hurry along with many involvements hoping that things will turn out all right? Having established definite goals for accomplishments, the succeeding questions naturally follow: 1. Am I too busy "doing" things to appraise what I am doing? 2. Am I doing things which do not contribute to my desired goals? 3. Am I doing things which, actually, keep me from achieving my desired goals? 4. Are there activities which should be eliminated? THE LORD'S COUNSEL FOR CORRELATION. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you (Matt. 6:33). Is there a better general guide for the Latter-day Saint homemaker, as to what is of importance? What does this mean to you, in relation to your many affiliations and activities? COMFORTING TO KNOW Fortunately for the homemaker, as with the systems engineer, she need not be professionally efficient in all or even any of the various areas of operation which she must correlate, in order to be a successful homemaker. It is comforting to know this. She need not be a trained musician in order to enjoy music; to motivate an appreciation of it in her family; or to arrange for music instruction for her children. She need not be the best cook in the neighborhood in order to prepare well-balanced, attractive meals; and to know that, if her daughters have experience in food purchasing and preparation, it will better prepare them for this responsibility in their own homes. LESSON DEPARTMENT No homemaker is equally efficient in all areas of homemaking, nor need she be. She may be better as a seamstress than as a cook, more prudent and thrifty in spending household money than gracious as a hostess, or better at human relations than in the mechanics of running a home. The homemaker must, however, if she is to be effective as a systems engineer, know something of the value of each area to the well-being, the progress, and happiness of the family. She must know something of the problems her children are meeting and will continue to meet in the world. 'She must realize that if an important area is completely neglected her children will suffer. For example, if the skills and crafts and regular academic studies are stressed to the exclusion of spiritual values, the children will be tremendously handicapped. 1. How serious is the handicap for children reared in a home where spiritual values are not stressed? 2. Is it a serious handicap for a child to be reared in a home where high moral standards are observed, but where there is no active Church affiliation? FULFILLING FAMILY OBLIGATIONS The third point brought out in the telephone conversation is that the many activities enumerated fall into several categories; namely (1) housekeeping duties; (2) needs and obligations of individual family members; (3) affiliations and obligations of the family as a unit. The tasks involved in housekeeping and the needs and interests of individual family mem- 235 MARCH 1965 bers will vary from home to home, and in any one home through the years. In fact, no one operational plan will be suitable for all homes nor for one particular home through the years. The homemaker must be flexible in her plan of correlation, always keeping in mind the goals which are to be achieved. The woman who has done the washing every Monday morning every week, without fail, for forty years, may - have proved that a _ definite schedule can be made to work; but she may also have proved that a plan can become master instead of a useful tool. She surely has not been flexible enough to test the maxim, "Variety is the spice of life." The obligations of the family as a unit, however, are less variable. Each family has a responsibility to the community — the obligation to support many of its constructive projects. It has the obligation of using the voting franchise, upon a local and national level. It has the responsibility to support the Church, both financially and by active affiliation. In addition to these responsibilities, each family has a responsibility to its parental families, both living and dead. RESPONSIBILITY TO LIVING PARENTS The responsibility of children to their living parents, especially their aged parents, is neither easy to define nor are its problems always easy to resolve. The following are questions which are pertinent to this responsibility: 1. To what extent should parents provide for their own old age? 2. Where there are several chil- 236 dren with families of their own, who should assume the responsibility of caring for the parents? 3. Shall aged parents remain in the home with their children or be cared for in Senior Citizen and nursing homes? 4, If it becomes necessary that they be placed in such institutions, would an equal sharing of expenses by family members solve a problem? FREEDOM VERSUS RESPONSIBILITY Children often want freedom without assuming the responsibility that accompanies that freedom. Consider the inconsistency of newly married couples who want to be left completely alone, free from all responsibility toward parents, and yet, at times of emergency, want to borrow money without interest, or move back and live with the parents for long periods of time. Some married children even consider "baby sitting' by their parents a service to which they are naturally entitled. Some parents, on the other hand, take the attitude that once the children are married, they are completely on their own and should expect nothing whatsoever from their parents. It is a happy situation indeed where the children and parents have established, through the years, a _ partnership of mutual love and understanding so that freedom and responsibility achieve a reasonable balance; where children work hard to reach a place for themselves yet have the assurance that, in times of emergency, they will still have the support of their parents. On the other hand, children should appreciate the care and love given them by their parents, to the extent that the welfare of the parents, and often of other relatives, will in turn be their willing concern and responsibility. In such cases, the problems of emergency and age, usually, can be amicably resolved. RESPONSIBILITY TO OUR FOREFATHERS Vicarious work for our kindred dead is an obligation from which no Latter-day Saint family is exempt. These words of the Prophet Joseph Smith indicate its importance. The greatest responsibility in this world that God has laid upon us is to seek after our dead (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 356). The Latter-day Saint homemaker should consider this great obligation as one which the family must fulfill. It should be — on her list of goals to be achieved. In addition to the actual genealogical work which she may personally do, she should lay a foundation for acceptance of this work in the minds and hearts of her children. How grateful are present-day researchers to find in old family Bibles names and dates of deceased family members, placed there by thoughtful mothers and fathers of the past. Although this practice often is not followed today, mothers may perform a great service by familiarizing their children with the names of their maternal and _ paternal grandparents, even great-grandparents. Many young Church members who have been made LESSON DEPARTMENT name-conscious, have discovered vital information, even complete family records to assist the family in this divinely directed work. 1. Do your children know the maiden names of their grandmothers? 2. How else may you help your children to begin assisting in this important cooperative family obligation? FOR DISCUSSION The questions as they appear in the lesson, plus others which should arise as a result of the discussion. FOR HOME DOING (Small children in home) From list of housekeeping duties, make feasible weekly schedule. Try it during the month, altering it as _ necessary. Appraise its value to you. (Teenage children in home) Discuss list of housekeeping duties, plus other family obligations with children, individually, enlisting cooperation in routinizing the house-keeping tasks that there may be more time for presently neglected but important activities, or reserve for discussion during a Family Home Evening. (Older children or adults only) Discuss with older children how Church activity may create a spiritual atmosphere within the home. Reappraise your own activities. Do they include some service to individuals who are less fortunate? Make a week's plan for beyond routine activities, including such service. Carry out the plan, noting what activities were eliminated, if such were necessary, in order to do so. Regardless of personnel of the family, make some effort to enrich the relationship with living parental families, by an unexpected visit, a letter or telephone conversation. Also, make some effort in behalf of your genealogical obligation. 237 MARCH 1965 MAY DAY HAWAIIAN TOUR 15 Wonderful Days Including Four Islands and Lei Day Celebrations April 24 — May 9 * * HAWAIIAN PARADISE SUMMER TOUR 15 Days * * HILL CUMORAH June 26 — July 11 There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27 day, and 29 day tour arranged One of these tours will include Black Hills Passion Play Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Spring Cleaning Viola Ashton Candland March winds are sweeping the hills Today, cleaning up the snow Still packed in crevices And hollows, loath to go. March winds are sweeping the hills, Leaving them bare and cold, Huddled behind the fields Of faded stubble-gold — Naked, weatherbeaten hills Caught shivering between A February blizzard And an April breath of Spring. Just waiting for the sun's long Fingers to coax the unseen Dormant life to wake and stretch And lift pale, folded heads of green, Seeking the comfort of warm sun Caressing bud and leaf. This year, Mother Nature, Could your cleaning time be brief? 238 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure woy of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Z 3 d Zone 7..........1.05 60 80 HAWAIIAN TOURS January. February, May, June, October, November, December 1965 EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR AND PAGEANT TOUR July—September 1965 FIVE DIFFERENT PAGEANT TOURS Write or phone for information Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Idaho Falls 522-2581 Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... -90 Tour the Holy Land in Spring Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES APRIL 8th Murdock Travel's annual Spring tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 22 days of high quality, worry-free travel. This is not a cut rate or student tour! You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Associate Director of the Salt Lake Institute of Religion. Research Historian for Nauvoo Restoration Inc. A foremost LDS authority on history and religion, who is now conducting his fourth tour of the Holy Land. SOSH SHH THHS TTS S SHEET THT HTH EH TESEETEKR HEHEHE ETI ESTEVE OSES MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE SPRING TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. Aheeoeserse@ocenacoeePeso eetesaeeeeeerersaeeeseeneseserae BR emeanesesrceneroocses Shank You GOLD for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAPTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups e yf A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. OO 240 East 2nd South Buy now from your dealer a Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 38 oS 239 Cairo, Athens, and Rome MURDOCK TRA VEL Dr. T. Edgar Lyon, Tour Director Address... O. Oo cece ceee ce ceeteeeeteteecesteeesececettteteeeeeessees. Ce re STGtEM:....... Oe eeZip..... ONE HUNDRED ONE Mrs. Mary C. Regg Burlington, Wyoming NINETY-EIGHT Mrs. Susannah Wagstaff McGhie Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Stauffer Frederick Providence, Utah Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffiths Clarkston, Utah NINETY-FIVE Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Rose Ella Miller Hail Jacksonville, Florida Mrs. Diana Merritt Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah NINETY-THREE Mrs. Ruth Rutherford Woods St. George, Utah Mrs. Linnie Denton King Pueblo, Colorado Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols Salt Lake City, Utah NINETY-TWO Mrs. Alta Anderson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rose Darton Varney American Fork, Utah Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah Mrs. Sarah Rosina Pomeroy Brewer Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Hattie Merrill Funk Ogden, Utah Mrs. Nellie May Allred Crane Salina, Utah Mrs. Ruth Maxwell Foote Safford, Arizona NINETY-ONE Mrs. Zenobia Jane Sutherland Harper Idaho Falls, Idaho 240 Mrs. Claire Bockholt Foulger Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Lee Wilson Meyer American Fork, Utah Mrs. Henrietta McCloy Larsen American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rose Lau Torgesen Soda Springs, Idaho Mrs. Rosa Wamslee Foote Safford, Arizona Mrs. Ellen Park Tooele, Utah NINETY Mrs. Anna Sophia Jacobsen Hogan Woodruff Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Lyon Hymas Liberty, Idaho Mrs. Gertrude Krogue Christensen Bloomington, Idaho Mrs. Annie Moore Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nevada Winters Petersen Wanship, Utah Mrs. Lettie Young Houston Bellflower, California Mrs. Mary Louella Higbee Schnebly Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Jane Ellen Collins Everett, Washington Mrs. Elida Emily Crosby Haycock Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ann E. Dunn Anderson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hannah A. Eldredge South Gate, California Mrs. Esther Elizabeth Westerberg Preston, Idaho Mrs. Lena Isabella Durham McGregor Salt Lake. City, Utah The Power of Love in Print THIS WAY BUT ONCE By J. Stanley Harrison The author, a convert to the Church from England, provides the reader with an insight into his wholesome outlook on life and the world as a whole. This Way But Once deals with man's nature, his happiness, his response to disappointment, and the power of gospel love. This is an unusual book that Rehef Society sisters will enjoy $2.95 THE BEATITUDES by L. Elmer Peterson A Latter-day Saint interpretation of the "Beautiful Attitudes" of the Savior. The Beatitudes analyses Christ's capsules of divine wisdom involving the reader in their real meaning. The author has taught in the LDS Church's seminary and institute system for thirty-five years and shares his experience in this book. $1.95 DESERET BOOK CO., 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah \y Enclosed please find check..... Money order I have an | T Deseret Book account, please charge..... Amount $ For (1) This Way But Once (2) The Beatitudes 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Name:. Roo 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN | 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Address:. Oe ee: City:.. State Zip:. Residents of Utah please add 3%% sales tax RS mar FOR YOUR GROWING FAMILY... Do you really need $10,000 more insurance, but feel you just can't afford it?... THEN THIS MESSAGE IS FOR YOU! Beneficial Life solves this problem for you with its low-cost "Commercial Whole Life' policy. This lowpremium permanent insurance builds cash values quickly and provides generous retirement benefits. You save, of course, by buying your insurance in the larger ''economy-size"' amounts of $10,000 or more. Ask your Beneficial agent about it... Or mail coupon below. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Beneficial Life Building Dept RS 65, Solt Lake City, Utah I would like a Beneficial Life agent to call and give me details on this low-cost plan Name... Address Srsurance Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Over 600 million dollars of life insurance in force. BENEFICIAL LIFE anak Salt Lake City, Utah - The: - Felicf ' Society Magazine f Volume 52 Number 4 April 1965 Special Short Story Issue Citen, Powe Sta Cok cemane The Cover: |) ' Photograph by Adelie Hurley, Free Lance Photographers Guild ' Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret New Press Frontispiece: Art Layout: Ilustrations: | Linnie F. Robinson When purple dusks are soft in spring And flowers star Gethsemane, | muse: that here you came to pray For strength to bear your enemy. To bless all men—you came for that— You had the power within your hand To destroy all—yet died for all, And purchased life from law's demand. There were the truckling, vassal kings, Who, counting pomp and gold as gain, Walked their loud hour upon the earth While you received the cross of pain. And you were hurt beyond all words— The Son of God, by those like me; Our unbelief drove in the nails, For we were blind and could not see. When purple dusks are soft in spring And flowers star Gethsemane, | muse that here you came to pray 'For strength to bear your agony. Jamieson River, Victoria, Australia Easter Lilies, Photograph by Josef Muench | Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Bs 'fi? 1 do not know how many brethren in the Church read The Relief Society Magazine. I even take Sister Vernon's copy to work with me and read it during lunch breaks. No words of mine can express how I feel about the Magazine. It keeps us humble and brings home to us just how blessed we are. Having held the office of branch president four times, | know only too well what it means to have a good Relief Society in a branch. 1! Am grateful for all the help and assistance the sisters have given me as branch president. It gave me great joy to read in the January 1965 issue of Sister Francelle Larsen conducting the Singing Mothers in San Joaquin Stake, California. Brother and Sister Larsen did a wonderful work over here in the Liverpool District, and later in' the Manchester Stake. We love these good Latter-day Saints. They are a shining example of ''By their fruits ye shall know them." J. Vernon, First Counselor Preston District North British Mission I wish to congratulate Venda Brown Castleberry on her tender story '"'Heart Room" (first prize story, January 1965). It is warm and appealing. | hope to see more of her writing in the future. Alice Gubler Sabin Deer Park, Washington | want to express my sincere appreciation for the prize-winning poems and the story which appeared in the January issue. All of the poems are lovely. 'Author of the first-prize poem, Sister Hansen, is the mother of one of our ward members, Q. Marion Hansen. The story by Sister Castleberry is excellent and carries a fine lesson for us all. | must express thanks for the interesting serial ''Turn of the Wheel," by Mabel Harmer. As a children's librarian and teacher, | often find her books on our shelves and on lists of recommended books. It is a thrill to think that | know Sister Harmer. Norma A. Wrathall Sunnyvale, California 242 1 had yesterday a great fun. It was the birthday of my grandmother. A week ago in Hamburg was born a new great-grandson, so | have translated and told her the poem "First Grand Addition,'' by Leora Larsen, November 1964 Magazine. Grandmother and the guests had a big laughter. When | heard the news of the birth of the little grandson, | had sent a letter with the poem in it to the baby's father, and he answered so lovely and so funny, that we had to laugh, too.. Benita Hollman - Lubeck, Germany | am a convert to the Church and have been a member for two years now. | enjoy my work in Relief Society and look forward to the Magazine each month. Mrs. Walter Chaicroft Minot, North Dakota | just received the first issue of our Magazine for this year, and what a beautiful Magazine it is! | love the warmth and friendship it brings to me, and the chance to visit with my sisters around the world. The fresh ideas it has on homemaking and caring for my family are much appreciated, but | value most the spiritual growth the Magazine gives me. | enjoy the directions for handwork and making gifts, such as '''A Welcome Gift," by Vilate McAllister in the November issue, and "Colorful Felt Pictures," by June Krambule. Barbara Lynch Fayetteville, N. C. During the week | have read the new literature textbook. It is wonderful. | was almost unable to put it down, and when I really had to leave it for something more important at that particular time, | found myself thinking of it continually and yearning to return to reading it. | am really looking forward to all the literature lessons. Valeria Howard President, Leeton Branch Australian Mission Relief Society Volume 52 April 1965 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp' Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 244 God's Law and Human Behavior Ariel S. Ballif 273 How Acceptance of the Gospel Brings Joy Into Our Lives Anne S. W. Gould 273 "Seek and Ye Shall Find" Clara Horne Park 274 Be Alert to Cancer Control Garrison H. Davidson 282 We Are God's Children Rixta Werbe 284 The Nature of Thought Amelia Davis Everett 286 I Visited a Relief Society Nursery Evelyn J. Barlow 289 One Hundred Years of Visiting Teaching Fiction 250 A Swedish Conversion Melba Taylor Gleave 256 "Love Thy Neighbour" Helen Hooper 263 The Image Sara O. Moss 275 A State of Mind Lael J. Littke 300 The Turn of the Wheel — Chapter 7 Mabel Harmer General Features 242 From Near and Far 269 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 270 Editorial: "Sufficient Unto the Day" Marianne C. Sharp 272 Notes to the Field: Use of Selections From the Literature Text Stake Social Science Leadership Department in Summer Not to Be Held Color Transparencies for Use in The Relief Society Magazine 306 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 320 Birthday Congratulations The Home -inside and Out 288 Spring Kathryn E. Franks 290 Baby Bonnet Made From a Handkerchief Opal F. Christensen 292 "Quickie" Menu for the Homebound Oa J. Cannon 293 Homemaking Suggestions: Simple and Subtle Jo Stock 293 Cherry-Rhubarb Pie Judith Leigh-Kendall 294 Page From the Diary of a Housewife Roselyn Kirk 296 Office Filing at Home Janet W. Breeze 299 A Sisterhood of Hobbies—Carrie K. Walker and Sophronia M. Petersen Lesson for June 313 Work Meeting — "... The Worth of Souls Is Great..." Alberta H. Christensen Poetry 241 When Flowers Star Gethsemane — Frontispiece Linnie F. Robinson In Praise of Spring, by Vera R. Holden, 255; Wind, by Ida A. Isaacson, 262; So You Must Try Your Wings, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 268; Proposal, by Muriel J. Heal, 284; The Children, by Lael W. Hill, 285; Solace For Tears, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 286; Never Land and Home, by Blanche Kendall McKey, 288; You Can Tell Them, by Christie Lund Coles, 289; April Accident, by Viola Ashton Candland, 293; Rocket Base, by Bernice Ames, 298; Dialogue, by Margery S. Stewart, 317; First Grandchild, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 317; April Is, by Eva Willes Wansgaard, 318; Remembering, by Celestia J. Taylor, 318. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Nn manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. A God's aw and Human Behavior Dr. Ariel S. Ballif Professor of Sociology Brigham Young University [Address Delivered at the Social Science Departmental Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964] "It is a most humbling experience to meet with the dynamic leadership of the Relief Society of the Church. I have always 244 been impressed with the faithfulness and the dedication of Relief Society workers. I have observed it at close range. My lovely wife has been and is a tireless worker in Relief Society. I have considered myself a member of your organization ever since I was a bishop, more so as a stake president, and an ardent member as a mission president. During these last three years, it has been my privilege to try to help the sisters of the Church understand more clearly the relationship of the Priesthood to the functioning of Church government. This year our effort has been to emphasize the effectiveness and value of applying God's law to the government of human behavior, particularly when it is carried out under the concept of love for the welfare of mankind. Each year the social science lessons of the Relief Society have examined an area of human interaction, observed the forces producing human _ behavior, and considered ways and means of improving the stimulation for and raising the standard of behavior of the members of the Society. God's organization on earth is designed to give direction to the lives of human beings so that through faith and the exercise of intelligent choice one can obtain the fullness of his possibilities and, eventually, reach perfection. Divine law is not restrictive nor designed as a deterrent. On the contrary, it is creative and dynamic with the welfare of mankind as its objective. "For behold, this is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." | method, but counsel, Persuasion, ng, Sentleness, meek. And love unfeigned, toWith the development of hrough ingp; full respect for the Tights of others, 'unselfishness, of fellow men are the basic Tequirementg for citizenship | 1 of God. - The fina] Product js the berfecteq individual, and the perreason. Christ's plan Provided for Persona] srowth through initiative, decision-making ye therefore Perfect, €ven as your Father hich jg i €aven js Perfect (Matt. 5:4 Say that Jealousy enmity, Selfishness i rts wil] always Preclude of the ideal Society 245 APRIL 1965 Peace and good will are attitudes of mind. An attitude is a tendency to act in a dependable way in a given situation. Attitudes are learned through a series of experiences which bring about pleasing, satisfying, and desired results. Attitudes grow out of study, human contacts, and associations. They are more than feelings or opinions. They are more accurately revealed in what we do than in what we say. Tue true religious attitude of an individual is revealed in his activity related to the teachings of the Church. For example, when one testifies to being a member of the Church and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God and that God spoke through Joseph to us, and then the testifier disregards revealed laws given by the Prophet, the strength of the person's testimony is found in his actions, not in his stated word. Jesus found a similar condition among the Jews when he said, "Ye hypocrites, well did Ksaias prophecy to you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me" (Matt. 15: 7-8). This applies not only to a specific revelation but to telling the truth in all situations, being honest in all one's dealings with God and man, and in every other principle of the good life that has been revealed. Church government is designed by divine law to give direction to the lives of human beings so that they may find expression for the fullness of their possibilities. As has been pointed out, under divine law, the Church, 246 through the home, has been given the major responsibility of setting the proper example. The parents must translate into action the teachings of the Savior. Under this influence the child begins the development of attitudes that last throughout his life, such as faith in God, acceptance of divine law, and the application of the same in the love of fellow men. A second major responsibility of Church government is so to direct the membership that, as a community, the proper environment is developed. An important concern is the temporal welfare of each member. Reducing suffering from hunger or unemployment is only a part of the responsibility. Health, recreation, and education are of equal importance in the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. A third major responsibility is to challenge the intellect of every member of the Church. Spiritual development and __ intellectual growth must go hand in hand. We must think about religion in order to formulate an intellectual understanding of it. And _ intellectual understanding is just as needful in religion as anywhere else. We must not permit the surface of the waters of religious life to become fixed and crystalized by the freezing of religious thought (BROWN, PRESIDENT HucH B., Church News, May 30, 1964). The development of proper attitudes for all Church members requires the proper functioning of all three of the above-mentioned responsibilities. In the opening passage of the first of Confucius' four books is the following statement: When true knowledge is achieved, then one has sincerity of purpose. tional life js orderly. And when the then there is THE home is the training ground Same motivation as exists in the family must be present in the community of the membership of the Church. With each family functioning according to the divine instruction (D&C 68:25-26), the ward environment would be ideal for the production of love and understanding. The Savior are not just for the refreshing of our GOD'S LAW AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR The maturing of the individual is an outcome of €xperience and ner. The same js true of chastity, 1 and loyalty. Some of the traits the life of These are which characterized process, For thousands of years men have tried to maintain peace through the development of machines of destruction, There has been a' constant flow of inventive genius to produce the most destructive instruments of hand weapons, the discovery there has deWith the 8rowth of such power, fear has filled the hearts of men. Nations are employing their top physical and their A major result of the power race is increase of suspicion, hatred, among nations and in the hearts of all the People. 247 APRIL 1965 THERE is a gleam of hope in the power struggle of nations found in the technical developments that bring people closer together. Now man can circle the globe in hours. There are no protective walls in the form of mountains or oceans. We are close neighbors to any and all of the peoples of the earth. We must learn more about them. Understanding our neighbors opens the way for friendly relations. The more friendly the people, the greater the possibility for peace. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints has approximately twelve thousand missionaries, mostly young men and women, teaching the principles of righteousness and peaceable understanding to the people of the world. Theirs is an unselfish effort to show people the only way to live happily together. They are demonstrating by their teachings and practice the value of love in the lives of human beings, showing that "the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (Gal. 5: 22-23). They (the missionaries) need the support of the home community to illustrate the truths of their teachings. They need every Latter-day Saint family to demonstrate the effectiveness of love of God and love of fellow men. The government of God, which is the operation of divine law, is the only way to establish peace and good will in the hearts of men. There is no other way. Peace is the product of a clear 248 conscience, of reason and intelligence, and of faith in God and an understanding of man's relationship to him. It is a result of the concerted effort of and intent of the best performance of the minds of men. Peace will come when the leadership of this world and the people in it are willing to recognize God's plan, and work harder, sacrifice more, and use all their resources for the development of his plan. Peace can come about when all people are concerned as much about the welfare of others as they are about themselves. It can happen when all men let the motive of service to others be the impelling drive in the performance of their professions. P&rAcE is not the easy way of life. It is the way of life that is directed by the pattern that Jesus gave us. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). Christ's joy and glory came in using his talents, experience, and power for the welfare and improvement of mankind. When he performed a miracle, he advised the 'beneficiary to go his way and tell no one what had happened. In meeting the opposition, he did not use force. He could have called legions of angels to protect him but he did not. He met force with love and kindness. He rebuked Peter when Peter smote off the ear of the soldier who was about to take the Christ a prisoner. Then the Savior restored the ear to the wounded man. He always did good to those who despitefully used or abused him. Jesus went out to find those who were weary and sick at heart, and gave them courage, healing their broken parts, and counseling them to love God and love their fellow men.; The divine law provides the necessary direction for obtaining perfection. Perfection is the goal of man as designed by the Creator. In Adam's time, and also in the time of Enoch, and while Jesus was upon the earth, and at the time recorded in Fourth Nephi, those near the source of divine instruction obtained a degree of perfection. They were taught correct principles and, with freedom of choice made with full knowledge, they were able to make right decisions. True virtue (knowing right from wrong and choosing the right) existed. The off-balance in conduct came when deception, greed, covetousness, selfishness, or other human weaknesses __ distorted their knowledge, their reason, and their faith, and then the people made their decisions influenced by their degree of unrighteousness. In these conditions the love of God and love of fellow men, so basic to peace and good will, are lost. Let us return now to the basic point of our lessons for the past three years—'Divine Law and Church Government." The effort has been to bring to you a discussion of divine law and _ its function in Church government through the Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man. The purpose of the government of the Church is to fulfill the objective of the Creator, ''For beGOD'S LAW AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR hold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). The mission of Jesus Christ to this earth established the pattern by which the objective of God can be realized. His pattern of life, his motivation in all his activity on this earth was demonstrated in the first and great commandment:... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang. All the law and the prophets (Matt. 22:37-40). As the Savior was about to leave this world he said to his disciples, "'Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you... (John 14:27). His peace came from knowing he had filled to the fullness the will of the Father in his (Christ's) service to mankind. The love he had for his Father was demonstrated in the good he did for his fellow men. How often he said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments."" If we would know his peace, we must follow in his footsteps. May God bless the efforts of the mothers in Zion. And may the Lord's influence be felt by this great leadership group in the task of bringing to the women of the Church a full realization of the importance of their strategic place in stimulating their husbands and sons to full performance of their duties in the Priesthood. 249 Swedish Conversion Melba Taylor Gleave m Anna Mary Gabrielson carried two buckets into the whitewashed stable. One bucket held soap and water to wash off the udders of the cows, the other would soon hold the frothy milk her strong hands would squeeze out of them. Setting the buckets down, she opened the stable door on the far end of the building and called softly to the'cows. They lumbered through the door to the stanchions where Anna Mary had spread grain for them to eat. As they put their heads through the poles in the stanchions, she quickly slid wooden bars into place along their necks so that they would stand still and lick up the grain while: she took their milk. She rushed their brown flanks and washed the udders, moving swiftly. Over the big swollen milk veins. "Stand still now, flickas, and give down your milk, tonight I must hurry. All the neighbors are coming to dance and have smorgasbord, and Valdimar Sjostrom will be here with his mother and father... Do you want them to find me under a cow?" She talked to the animals as she worked, pausing at intervals to laugh from sheer joy in an- 250 ticipation of the party. When she finished milking, she unlocked the cows' heads, scattered clean straw for them to bed down on, picked up the buckets and walked out the door, being careful to bolt it securely. She carried the milk into the cool stone cellar and strained it into shallow pans so that the cream would come to the top. After setting these pans on shelves, she removed the pans of milk that had been strained the night before and skimmed the thick leathery cream from them into a wooden churn. When the chores were finished, SO that at the a Seventeen, the a8 grown wo A SWEDISH CONVERSION Worked the Soap into the soft an apron 4round her Waist, she hurried to the kitchen to help her Mother, Already Mrs, GabTielson's table was laden With APRIL 1965 cake and spicy cookies. Creamed codfish simmered on the back of the big black stove, and the smell of apple dumplings escaped the oven to tantalize her father who walked around the kitchen lifting lids and snatching some of everything her mother put on the table as soon as her back was turned. Anna Mary hurried to the cellar to get some of the small cheeses they made especially for smorgasbord, and as she came back the first neighbors had arrived, and were tying their horse to the hitching post at the side of the house. She waved to them, "Hello, and welcome, MHendrika and Arne!" She noticed the little ones asleep in the back of the cart. "T'll take this cheese in and help you carry the children." "You are a Swedish white angel, and you'll make Valdimar a good wife someday,' Arne teased. Anna Mary blushed and ran to the kitchen with the cheese. Nearly all of the guests had arrived before Valdimar stepped through the front door with his parents. Anna Mary saw him at once, and her joy was pain as she watched his eyes search the room until they found hers. She busied herself taking people's shawls and hats and piling them all on top of her mother's big, white bed. The-last ones to arrive were Sedra and Zorn Hamberg who brought a strange man with them. She crossed the room to welcome them. "We are glad you are here. Mama won't leave the kitchen, and Petranella and I are to take your wraps and bid you welcome." 252 Zorn said, "Anna Mary, this is Mr. Walter Turner. He lives in the United States. He is a Mormon missionary. His companion, Mr. Larson, was called away." Anna' Mary nodded, and Mr. Turner shook her hand. He said something she didn't understand, but she smiled at him, and indicated that he was to come in and sit down. He was dressed in a dark suit and looked clean and neat—a man of about thirty. When Swedish people get together, constraint vanishes as soon as they begin to eat, and when the guests began to fill their plates from Mrs. Gabrielson's smorgasbord, the talk and laughter were as hearty as their appetites. Only then Mr. Turner seemed quiet—but not unpleasant, as he ate the food with obvious relish. After the tables had been cleared, and all of the little children tucked into the beds of Anna Mary and Petranella, the braided rugs were taken up from the white wooden floors, and Nils and Katrina Jonassen played polkas on their accordions while everyone danced—everyone except the Mormon missionary and Anna Mary's father who tried to talk to each other. When Anna Mary danced with Valdimar, her heart lifted her feet like blown feathers. His hands were steel gentleness about her waist. When everyone was breathless from polkas, Marieer Hansson sang the sad sweet folk songs that made the men and women reach for each other's hands. Before it was time to go home, Mrs. Gabrielson set out all the food again because now everyone had 'danced themselves empty' and they must go home satisfied. The small children were taken from the beds in their sleep and loaded into the straw-filled carts. Then much hugging was done before they finally left. Anna Mary stepped through the door with Valdimar, and as soon as they moved away from the light of the doorway, he bent down and put his lips in her hair, "Anna Mary...." She stood alone and listened until the sound of his horse died in the soft dirt of the road, then turned and walked back into the house. Her mother was cleaning up the dishes from the second feasting, and her father was talking about the Mormon, "I told him we would listen to him. It won't hurt to hear what he has_ to say." Anna Mary lay in her bed with her hand on the place where Valdimar's lips had been. She could hear her mother putting back rugs and straightening the house so that in the morning her usual work would not be interrupted. The moon moved across the sky, its light falling through the window upon the closed eyelids of a Swedish girl who was dreaming of her love.... THE summer moved quickly into fall. The birch trees were tinged with yellow, and the fields of flax were blue with blossoms. The Mormon missionaries were frequent visitors in their home, and were liked by all of them. Mr. Turner told them of the Prophet Joseph Smith, who had received a vision from God and his angels, and about the restoration of the true gospel upon golden plates. A SWEDISH CONVERSION He told of the power this young man was given to interpret the history of the early people from these plates. He explained the gospel plan to them, and told of the kingdoms of eternity. Anna Mary's father was sure this young man spoke with the tongue of truth, and embraced the gospel with all his heart. He testified that when Mr. Turner preached the gospel, his body would fill with a burning sensation that he was aware of even in the ends of his hair. He felt cleansed and uplifted after each visit, and when the time came for Mr. Turner to ask whether they were going to be baptized, Mr. Gabrielson answered unhesitatingly, '""Yes. I want to belong to your Church, I want my wife to belong—and my daughters." They were baptized by Mr. Turner and his companion, Mr. Larson, in the small lake they could see from the south of their house. After the baptism, they seemed to have no friends except Sedra and Zorn Hamberg who had become members of the Mormon Church also. When it came time to harvest the acres of flax, they were the only neighbors who had come to help them, and Anna Mary and _ Petranella worked from daylight until dark pulling and shocking the flax. Anna Mary ached from work and sadness. Since she became a Mormon, Valdimar had only come to see her once, and he had seemed sad and quiet. His usual forthright eyes had avoided hers. Winter piled the snow around their home, the canals froze into glass arteries. They kept the animals inside the farm buildings, 253 APRIL 1965 melting snow to water them. Anna Mary moved about her tasks as one who had forgotten how to be glad. The new religion had taken Valdimar from her, and one day followed the next like prolonged pain. When she went to bed at night, she could hear her mother and father talking for hours. One day they told their daughters they had decided to go to America. Anna Mary's father looked at her and said, "You will go first with Brother Turner and some other missionaries." (Since they had been baptized they called him Brother.) "He is going back to America next month. I will arrange passage for you on the same ship." "But Papa, I am afraid to go alone. Why can't Petranella come with me? It is so far away, I don't know how to talk their language... My clothes...." Her heart was beating fast, moving out of the painful lethargy of Valdimar and into a new feeling of fear. Her father came to her and put his hands on her shoulder. "Anna Mary, my little one, I don't want to send you away from us, but your mother and I have decided it is the only way. We have only enough money for one boat ticket. When we sell the animals, we will send your sister, and when your mother and I can sell the land, we will come. Please try to be brave." "But I don't want to go away from our home! I don't like to be a Mormon! We don't have any friends here since we joined them!" She threw herself into her father's arms and sobbed. He stroked her hair tenderly. 254 "T am sure it is the Lord's will, Anna Mary." THE month was filled with preparation for Anna Mary's trip to America. New clothes were made, homespun and woolens, stockings were knit, and money was sewn into a belt so that she wouldn't be left penniless if her purse got stolen. One night as they were putting her clothes into her traveling bags, a firm knock came at the door. Mrs. Gabrielson opened it, and in stepped Valdimar, ice skates hanging over his shoulder. "T have come to say goodbye to Anna Mary." He looked at her, then at the clothes they were folding into the bag. "Will you come skating with me?" Anna Mary nodded and went into her bedroom to change into. Warmer clothes. She took her skates out of the closet and went back to Valdimar who had been talking earnestly to her father. They walked to the canal where they put on their skates. Valdimar helped her onto the ice, then joining hands, they skated away. For miles they skated along the smooth ice, matching their bodies to the rhythm of the strokes. Valdimar slipped Anna Mary's mitten off and put her hand inside his glove—fresh pain went through her. They stopped underneath some tall black pines. Valdimar unbuttoned his coat and drew Anna Mary's cold face inside its warmth, where she cried until there were no more tears to come. "T love you, Anna Mary. I had planned to ask you to marry me, I only waited because you are so young, but now...." "Now I am 4 Mormon, and you hate them, and I will go to America and you will stay here with your father and run the mill and marry someone else. I don't want to g0, Valdimar, but we think it is right. We could never be happy here now." He shook his head sadly, "No." He reached into his pocket and brought out a small box. "I want you to have this to help you remember." Opening the box, he drew out a small gold chain with a blue sapphire pendant. He fastened it around her neck. Lifting her chin he kissed her A SWEDISH CONVERSION lips. "I will always love you." They skated slowly home, the cold winter wind biting into Anna Mary's swollen, red eyes. Ae Ce Lirrte Karl grabbed Anna Mary's hands as she tucked him in bed, "Your hands are really old, aren't they, Grandma?" Anna Mary looked down at her knobby fingers with the blue veins and brown splotches. One hand reached up and touched the blue stone on the necklace she always wore. "Yes, they are really old." In Praise of Spring Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire, England At morn the pale gold To weave strange garlan sun comes through ds on my window blind, Reminding me that spring is due To wake the world to li To heal the sad at hea fe anew, rt, refresh the mind. The crocus, without voice or sound, Reaching up to make her bright display, Sends cautious fingers through the ground, Then edges out to look around, In white and gold and purple colors gay: Narcissus gently takes her place, Tall, slender maiden like the snow is she, Lifting to the sun Symbol her sweet white face, of loveliness and grace, Of childlike innocence and _ purity. And seeing all so wondrous fair— The springtime and the greening sod, The blossoms and the beauty everywhere— We echo in our hearts a prayer, For all this radiant spring, We thank thee, God. 255 Helen Hooper w My whole problem was that I didn't believe. It would have been heresy to have said it out loud. I felt this instinctively, and with it the shame and the awful burden of secrecy it demanded. I could see vividly in my imagination the shocked faces of my sisters, the pain in Mama's eyes. It wasn't that I didn't want to believe, but everything was against it—everything I could see or feel or know. It didn't matter that Mama told me constantly about the Golden Rule and "not a sparrow falleth," and all the other gospel precepts that should guide our lives and thoughts. It only made me feel more guilty and rebellious to watch her work so hard and faithfully and see my sisters obediently accept the necessary sacrifices that poverty demanded, while everything within my being rejected it with one violent, enormous WHY. Why did father have to get killed in the mine? Why did we have to leave our lovely home in Provo and the green lawns and flowers to come to this ugly, horrible mining town with its 256 gouged mountains spilling out their rocky insides into the back yards? Why did Grandfather's mills have to fail? Why did the politicians have to change the tariff? Why should a low tariff make it cheaper to buy imported woolen goods than the ones we could make in Grandfather's mills? It all went back to the Lord and politics. If the Lord would let things like that happen, it was perfectly obvious that he did not care anything at all about what happened to me. Mama had refused to return to Provo after Father's death, because we would be too great a burden on Grandfather. She had decided, realistically, but with much faith and prayer, that we could get along by taking in boarders. Ours was the only boarding house in Eureka that upheld Mormon standards and did -not allow smoking and drinking, so our boarders were mostly serious young men, just home from their missions, who had come to work in the mines. The mines paid high wages, and they could save enough money so that they could buy a piece of land or invest in business down in the valley towns. When I was seventeen and had finished high school, Mama finally agreed to let me pin up my hair. I had begun to look at these young men with a new perspective. They were suddenly individuals who might mean something to me besides extra dishes to wash and lunches to pack. WHEN autumn came that year, Mama, with what seemed to me unnecessarily great reluctance, consented for me to go to work for Mr. Pazetti downtown in his ice-cream parlor and cafe. I wanted the job desperately and I had pouted and coaxed for days. I knew that I was not behaving properly, and I hated to 'make things more difficult for Mama, but I was so tired of wearing the older girls' hand-medowns or going without. I felt sure that I was capable of working on a bigger, more important job where I could be of greater help. Mama had been fighting what seemed to me to be a losing battle ever since Father was killed. "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" No matter how she tried to manage, there just never was enough money to go around. During family prayers I found it difficult to feel grateful for our — many blessings, which I could never quite recognize. As a matter of fact, I sometimes caught myself wondering how Mama could be so faithful and patient and loving when she never got anything but hard work and worry. I couldn't imagine a worse fate than spending my life in a mining town, as she was deing, waiting on boarders and doing practical nursing for people who were not appreciative enough even to try to pay her, besides all the work of bringing up eight children. At the cafe I did everything from serving the customers to helping Mrs. Pazetti with the cooking. I worked hard, but it seemed different when I was being paid money for it. Mama insisted that my brother Boyden should come to meet me each night after work, because she never allowed us out on the street alone after dark. Eureka, in spite of two churches, a school, and a few reliable business establishments, was still a rough and boisterous mining town. Before I had been working very long, Don Weldon, one of our boarders, asked permission to walk home with me every evening and Mama said yes. This -made Boyden happy and I was pleased, too. It was fun to walk home sideby-side with Don. I felt grown-up and important. Don was a marvelous person. He told me such interesting stories about his experiences at the university in Salt 257 APRIL 1965 Lake and in the places he had seen in England, where he had been on his mission. Mama had been as far as Logan, once, when she and Father were married. This had always been one of my favorite stories. Now, listening to Don, it seemed to me that I would have to travel and do and see all the exciting things there were in the world. I felt I could never be happy if I didn't. BETWEEN my dreams about the future and my new job, time went by so fast that before I realized it, it was the day before Christmas. That morning I was making doughnuts. The wind was howling and blowing the snow like a blizzard up through Main Street and over the Summit. Mr. Pazetti was chopping wood out in back in the woodshed, and Mrs. Pazetti was filling the counters and setting the tables in front. As I measured and mixed, I glanced up and saw a tramp pass the window. He looked at me briefly, then at the heaping bowl of golden brown doughnuts on the table. I didn't like tramps. They were dirty and _ shiftless. We had been taught that cleanliness was next to godliness, and honest work was second only to faith. I always felt a little uneasy if I knew that a tramp was resting on our back porch, but Mama never turned anyone away cold or hungry. I didn't think Mr. Pazetti would have Mama's consideration for other people, and I crossed curiously to the back door so I could hear what he said. The tramp was asking for work... Anything to earn some food and 258 a night's lodging. Mr. Pazetti turned on him with a torrent of abuse that shamed me to listen. I went back to my table and tried to measure the flour with shaking hands. No one had a right to browbeat another human being that way, I thought indignantly. After all, the tramp wasn't begging, he was willing to work. I heard him start back around the house with Mr. Pazetti shouting at him from the woodshed, and quickly I lifted the window by the table. As he looked up, I gathered as many doughnuts as my hands would hold and reached them out to him. He just looked at me for a long minute, then he took them carefully and _ said, "Thanks, Miss," and was gone. I worked hard and fast. My conscience was pricking, for they were Mr. Pazetti's doughnuts that I had given away. The harder I. Worked the more I worried. I knew that I had to tell Mr. Pazetti what I had done, and when I did he would probably be so mad that he would fire me. The thought of such a calamity made me ill. I just couldn't tell Mama I had lost my job, now that she was depending on my seven dollars every week, but I couldn't face her clear eyes with a sin on my conscience, either. I gritted my teeth and took a deep breath to steady my faltering will. I closed my eyes and wished that praying would help. When I opened them Mr. Pazetti was standing in the doorway looking at me. I flushed and stammered, then I grabbed at my courage and blurted out what I had done. For a moment I thought he would pop. He was so mad that his eyes bulged and he sputtered like a tea-kettle on a_ red-hot stove, then he shouted, "Mama mia! You worka overtime! You maka eet up! Doughnuts -eesa noa cheap. Two hours you staya tonight!" "Oh, thank you, Mr. Pazetti. I'll be glad to work overtime. Thank you very much!" The relief flooded over me. Quickly I turned back to the table and started rolling out the dough befor he could change his mind. WHEN Don came for me at nine o'clock I told him I had to work until eleven. He said he had an errand to do, so that would be fine. By half-past ten everything was finished. The last doughnut was served and the last counter polished and the floors were scrubbed and shining. Mr. Pazetti was beaming at his wellfilled cash register. He turned to me as I stood rubbing glycerine and rose-water into my roughened hands. "You goa home. Eet ees enough," he said. I started to explain that I couldn't leave until Don came back for me, but he waved me away, refusing to listen. "Goa home. Pazetti has beega heart. Tomorrow eesa Chreestmas. Goa home." There was nothing else to do, so I went out into the night. Immediately I was caught up by the wind blowing against my back and driving me along into the storm. It took my breath and whipped my scarf from my throat. I clutched at the scarf, trying to wrap its woolen folds "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" closely around my ears and over my mouth and nose. I stumbled blindly in a gap in the board sidewalk and lost the scarf completely, as I grabbed frantically for the side of the building to cling to. I huddled there for a moment deciding to go back to Pazetti's and wait for Don, but as I turned to face the wind a driving sheet of icy snow beat against my unprotected face and drove me back against the building again. I buried my face in my arms, while the storm tore at my coat and wrapped my skirt tightly around my legs. Slowly I inched along the buildings. Everything was closed and deserted. Everyone had obviously hurried home to get out of the storm. As I passed the fire station the buildings ended and I was caught up again in the wind. I turned my back to its force and began to run blindly ahead. The scattered houses were hidden by the density of whirling snow and sleet, and I was guided only by habit and instinct. I gasped for breath, which the wind tore from my throat. My legs were becoming heavy and stubborn. Even with the wind at my back to propel me, I could scarcely make them move. My head pounded and a great pain was stabbing through my chest and into my stomach. Desperately I struggled forward. All of a sudden my foot caught in something and was held tight. I jerked and twisted, trying to loosen it, but it was stuck fast. Slowly I sank down into the snow. I buried my face in my arms to shield it from the wind while I caught my breath. Grad- 259 APRIL 1965 ually I became aware of a rumbling vibration beneath me. I sat bolt upright. I was on the railroad tracks, probably on the switch just below the water tower. The night train from the valley had probably been delayed by the storm and had come in late. Now it had unloaded down at the depot and was on its way up to the water tower. It would be here in a few minutes. My foot must be caught between the rails! I jumped up on my other foot and began to scream and tug and twist violently. The wind seemed to be dying down, for I could hear my screams, terrified and shrill. I began to pray frantically and desperately that God would hear my cries and help me before it was too late. ALLL of a sudden a man appeared out of the storm. He must have heard my screams because he was running fast toward me. He stopped and I tried to tell him that the train was coming and my foot was caught in the tracks. My words were jumbled in my frenzied fear, but he seemed to understand. He dropped to his knees and began to tug at my shoe frantically. The vibration from the rails was stronger now. The train was getting closer. I could hear it above the wind. The man worked vigorously, digging with his bare fingers at the ice and snow, then trying to untie my shoe laces and unlace my shoe. Suddenly we _ were enveloped in a_ blinding light. Terrified, we jerked mightily together and fell sprawling backwards into the snow, loosened and free once more, rolling and 260 scrambling away from the tracks as the train snorted and puffed past us. Weak and trembling, I sat up and looked at my rescuer. I thought I had never seen anyone so angelic. The wind had subsided and the snow was falling gently as a benediction around us. The caboose went by and in the light of the slowly moving lantern I recognized him. It was the tramp to whom I had given the doughnuts that morning. He leaned toward me. "Are you all right?" he asked. I nodded, unable to speak, staring at him. He wasn't really much older than I was and he didn't seem like a tramp, except for his whiskers and wornout clothes. He looked back at me steadily and then said, "I'm glad it was you I could help, because you helped me this morning... More than you know." He glanced up at the train. It was stopped at the water tank. "I'm going to catch a ride on that train," he said. "I'm going back home. My mother used to make doughnuts like those in our kitchen back on the farm. She'll be glad to see me again. She didn't want me to leave, but I thought the farm was too dull. Thanks again for the doughnuts." He jumped up and ran toward the train, which was starting to move. I watched him as he swung up on the back of the caboose and ran along the top. He turned once and waved. The train picked up speed and disappeared in the night. I watched until it was gone, then I tied my shoelaces and stood up to start home again. The fear and excitement had been too much for me, and I was abruptly sick. I caught hold of a fence and hung on. Finally, I stood by the fence in the clean, cold night and felt I knew that a miracle had happened to me. I could feel the understanding sweeping through me, filling my being. Instantly and clearly I could comprehend Mama's faith and serenity. All the beautiful truths she had taught me through the years were apparent and meaningful. "As ye sow, SO shall ye reap," "Cast thy bread upon the waters... "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." It was the birthday of the Christ Child and, suddenly, I knew him. I began to walk. Slowly and deliberately 1 put my feet down one after the other into the snow, while my spirit soared up to the glory above the clouds. 1 reached home and walked around to the back door. The kitchen was filled with spicy Christmas smells. The younger children were in the parlor hanging strings of popcorn and cranberries on the Christmas tree, while they recited their verses for the Sunday School pageant. Mama sat by the stove stitching the trimming on their costumes. I felt suddenly deflated. It was so ordinary and commonplace. Somehow it seemed to me that bells should be ringing and trumpets sounding glad hosannas. It was the Savior's birthday! I heard Mama's voice asking, "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" "What's the matter, Nettie? Are you sick?" I looked at her and tried, but somehow I couldn't put it all into words. I said the only simple thing I could explain. "I was sick." Mama put aside her sewing. She felt my forehead. "You do feel a little feverish," she said. "Here, sit down in the rocking chair." She opened the oven door and I rested my feet against the edge. The warmth from the oven crept up through my cotton stockings and under my skirts. She took one of her pretty china cups, put in a pinch of ginger and poured boiling water from the teakettle into it, then she added milk and sugar. "A little ginger tea will settle your stomach and warm you up, child, you're shivering." I was shivering, but it was only a nervous reaction. I sipped the fragrant tea slowly, savoring it. It was not very often that I was privileged to sit in Mama's chair and drink ginger tea from the best china cups, yet, at that moment nothing less would have seemed worthy. The front door opened and I heard Don's voice asking if I was home. I was surprised to realize that I had forgotten all about him. He came into the kitchen carrying 4 long box wrapped in brown paper. The children eyed the package with curiosity. Don looked first at Mama and then at me. "I'm sorry IT missed you tonight," he said. "When I went back to Pazetti's you'd already gone. The train from the valley was late on account of 261 APRIL 1965 the storm and I had to wait until it got here." He placed the package in my lap. "Merry Christmas," he said. "Tt was on that train from Salt Lake. It's almost Christmas and I guess you'd better open it because it's flowers and they might die before morning." I looked at it, trying to adjust my emotions to this new surprise. The children crowded close and Mama took the cup from my hands and gave me a pair of scissors. "Now isn't that lovely," she said. "Go ahead, Nettie, open them. If they've come all the way from Salt Lake, they surely need water by now." Her words aroused me to action. I cut the strings and pulled away the wrapping paper and lifted the lid. There lay a dozen deep red roses bedded in green fern. Each bud was at least two inches in length and the stems were as long as my arm. "Ohhbhhhhhhhhhh." A great sigh of admiration and wonder escaped from all our throats. "Nettie, you may get the crystal vase from the china cupboard," Mama said. That vase had come all the way across the plains wrapped in Grandma's feather mattress. I swallowed and went to the dining room to get it. I arranged each fragrant beauty in the vase and placed it on the piano. Even the splendor of the Christmas tree diminished in comparison with such elegance. "They're too beautiful to keep all to ourselves," said Mama. "Wouldn't you like to take them to Sunday School in the morning, Nettie? They would look so lovely beside the pulpit, and then everyone could enjoy them with us." I looked at Don and his face was beaming with delight. I looked back at Mama. Her eyes smiled into mine, steadfast and serene. "Oh, yes, Mama," I answered. "Td love to." Quite simply then, at last, I understood. You didn't need bells or trumpets or worldly pleasures —not if you had faith in God and love for all mankind in your heart. Ida A. Isaacson Outside the house and far up there The wind is rough and thin as air. It grapples with the earth and sky Then, disappears like a sigh. Across the reaches of the night When all the world is void of light It noses at the window sill, Moves shadows that are dark and still. It tangles with a single leaf Then moves like moisture on a reef, No flight, no sound of winging bird. Far off in space the wind is heard. 262 The Image Sara O. Moss ® Kathleen drove slowly home in the late afternoon. She was disturbed at her brother's wife Ella, whom she had just visited. She seemed so rigid and extreme in her views on child rearing. "You can't always go by the book, Ella," Kathleen had said. "Sometimes your own good judgment is the better way." Ella had smiled a little wryly. "You're like John," she _ said. "You think I need an image of your old-fashioned Grandma Mack. If you only'*knew, Kathleen, how often I have to hear how she reared you and John, stern, but with love and understanding. I guess she was a good little thing and she did the best she could, but I'm really grateful that with three children to rear, T'll have the help of experts. A good psychologist can do more with Connie than all of Grandma Mack's homespun philosophy." Kathleen had been a little hurt inside. Grandma Mack was gone now. She was the only mother she and John had ever known. Kathleen missed her. There had been so much devotion and understanding in the small home, and, in rearing her own five children, Kathleen always had Grandma Mack's image before her. It was like a beam of light, guiding, directing, and telling her how to meet life's next obstacle. "But, why," Ella had laughed 263 APRIL 1965 as she stood by Kathleen's car, sometime later, "did I have to draw the short end of the match —an old mirror I didn't want, and you drew the Chippendale table? I really wanted that, Kathleen. Grandma Mack. Should have left that to John." Kathleen had smiled. "But we drew lots, and I won, fair and square." The women bantered goodnaturedly for a few moments, then Kathleen came away. She was disturbed over things Ella had said about Ella's daughter Connie. THE next morning she watched her sixteen-year-old son Rodney load the Chippendale table into his red-painted jeep. He was taking it to his shop class to be refinished. '""Now, remember," admonished his mother, ''every bit of the old paint and varnish has to come off, before you apply the new." "Don't worry, Mom. Mr. Burke will keep his eagle eye on it. It will be a perfect job, you can bet your life on that." Kathleen now watched Rodney drive away. She felt a little guilty, knowing how much Ella wanted to possess the fine little piece, but she felt such an overwhelming joy at having the table. It was elegant, and made up a little for the secret pangs she sometimes had of wanting things, especially when she visited Ella. Ella's home was like the brilliance of fine crystal, the romance of Dresden, and the feel of walking in deep plush. It was at such times that Kathleen had that feeling of wanting things that she knew never could be hers. But now, she did have 264 something. Something very fine and choice—a prideful thing. She went into the chaos of her house, where five boys had left traces of various activities of the evening before. Kathleen picked up a pair of socks and shoes, school books, and a record album. There were dozens of things that a family of seven could litter into a pleasurable evening at home. Kathleen looked through the door into the hall as her eyes rested on the small space where ~ the table might fit. "It's really the only place where the table can be put," she thought to herself, eyeing the worn carpet and the old-fashioned hall tree. "I wish there was a place in the living room, but everything in there is in use." Just then the phone rang. It ~ was Ella. "Can you meet me at the market, Kathleen! I'd like to talk a few minutes. It's about Connie." "What's happened?" asked Kathleen. "T'll tell you when we meet. Drive to the west side of the Big Market. There's usually plenty of room there." Kathleen promised to meet Ella in half an hour. She hurried and straightened the living room, then went out to her car to meet her sister-in-law. Ella was already there at the market. Kathleen pulled up beside her. "What's wrong, Ella?" Ella's face was worn and haggard. "I'm at my wit's end," she said. 'Connie! Neither John nor I can get to her. She won't tell us where she's going, what she's doing, or what she's thinking. If I ask her anything, she gives me a short answer and walks out of the room." Kathleen looked at Ella's troubled face. "'She's a teenager, Ella. She will come out of it, you'll see. Just give her a little time.": "Time!" said Ella. "We can't stand much more of this. And John is so worried, too. She isn't doing a thing in school, to speak of. Wouldn't it be terrible if she dropped out of school?" "Have you. Any idea what brought this behavior on? Was there any reason?" Eta sat silent for a few moments. "I guess I nagged, Kathleen. I do blame myself for that. But it started with her hair. That awful hair. She began spending all her allowance for having her hair silver streaked. Imagine that, when she has such pretty blond hair. After that she began using eye shadow. Real heavy, Kathleen. Sometimes it's purple and sometimes it's green or blue, and then black on her eyelashes. Oh, I know I nagged constantly. I said things I was sorry for, but this painted-up child! And that silver hair. I just had to speak my mind." "No wonder she won't talk to you, Ella. She's tired of listening to you. And walking out of the room is the only way of getting relief. It gives her a freedom." Ella studied her words seriously. "I told John we must have a psychologist work with her, but he thinks that will turn her even farther away from us." Kathleen looked off into space. She felt a deep compassion for Ella at that moment, for she knew she had lost Connie, at THE IMAGE least, for the time being. She wanted to tell her to hold the young, erring head close on her shoulder, silver-streaked hair and blue-laden eyelids included, and see her as a precious gift from God. She wanted to tell Ella to retrace the steps that had caused the conflict between them, and fill each step with generous outpourings of love from her now over-burdened heart. Yet, knowing Ella, Kathleen was sure she would have to have her advice from a book, rather than any - guidance from dear old Grandma Mack's life. "Try the silent treatment," said Kathleen. "Stop nagging at once and you'll see a big difference." "What! And let her walk all over us?" "If you have to," smiled Kathleen. ''At least let her come home to a quiet atmosphere, no matter how you feel." Ella sighed. ''T'll try it," she said, "but I can't see how we can just stand by and let her ruin her life. I still think we should have a psychologist work with her." Kathleen knew it was useless to try to influence Ella, and the two women parted after doing their marketing, the problem still remaining. It was early evening a few days later. Kathleen was serving her husband Phil and four of the boys from a big casserole dish, -when Rodney came hurrying into the room. He sat down abruptly in his usual place and began eating hungrily. "You are late," said his father, helping the six-year-old at his side. 265 APRIL 1965 "Sorry, Dad," said Rodney, "but I worked on the table and it was later than I thought. Guess what, Mom? Mr. Burke said an antique dealer told him that your little table is worth a lot of money. Maybe even five hundred dollars because it's a real Chippendale."' Kathleen sat down suddenly. "Oh, Rodney! No fooling?" "That's what he said," confirmed Rodney. Kathleen was shaken with surprise. 'Do you believe that, Phil? Do you think Gram's little table could be worth all that?" "Probably more," said Phil "Antique hunters pay any price if they find what they're looking for." Each day, after that, Kathleen asked about the table. First, had all the stain and varnish come off—out of every crevice? And was Rodney sure Mr. Burke had advised him correctly on the filler, the rubbing down, and the sanding! Then the final process, the high gloss varnish, had it been rubbed to a satin finish? "It's smooth as silk," said Rodney proudly. "And you should see how the boys stand around to get an eyeful of the table that's worth a fortune." "T hope you tell them it belonged to your Great-grandmother Mack," said Kathleen, passing the baked apples. "They already know that, too," said Rodney. "Mr. Burke told a man from the newspaper about the table, and he came up and took a picture of it, with me working on it." Kathleen was breathless. The little table even made local news. "It isn't for sale,"' she told more 266 than one interested person. "It was my Grandmother's." FINALLY the table was back in the house. On a quiet Saturday morning it gave Kathleen a restful, confident feeling as though Grandma Mack was there with her radiating presence. Phil had taken the boys to a school exhibit, and Kathleen was cleaning and dusting. Joy was in her heart. She sang as she worked. Suddenly the doorbell rang. Kathleen went to open the door, wondering who was on the other side. "Connie!" Connie was the last person she expected to see. '"What a surprise, Connie. You come so seldom. Come in." Kathleen had a feeling of curiosity mingled with her feelings of surprise. Connie crossed the threshold. "Aunt Kathy, I came to see the Chippendale table," she said with candor. "I heard Mother telling Daddy about it." "Of course, dear. I'd like you to see it. It belonged to your Great-grandmother Mack, you know. It's in here." The table stood in the living room. "I haven't decided where I'm going to put it for sure." Before Kathleen could explain further, the girl had crossed the room and stood by the heirloom. It was moments before she spoke. "It's beautiful, Aunt Kathy," she said as she touched it almost reverently, stroking the wood of the gleaming surface. Kathleen watched the girl's face, alive with interest, and then she noticed the silver-streaked hair and the purple eye shadow. The lashes looked glued with black mascara. Kathleen knew what Ella meant when she said the girl looked a sight. "My Great - grandmother's?" asked the girl. "That's right,' said Kathleen going to the piano. "This is a small photograph of her.' She handed Connie a little framed picture. "She was quite pretty," said Connie. "She was considered very good looking when she was young. She was about your age there." Connie went back to the table. "You know, Aunt Kathy. I want to work with antiques. I love them." "You—like antiques?" Connie smiled. "I know it sounds funny, doesn't it? ''m only sixteen, but I love to collect things. Do you know I have a lovely vase of early pressed glass that I bought in a second-hand store for almost nothing, and I have a sugar bowl and a paper weight." Kathleen was astonished. "I think that's wonderful, Connie. There is so much you can learn about people and history when you study antiques. I didn't know you were even interested in such a hobby." Connie grinned. "I guess nobody knows, especially Mother. She would think it was trashy to browse around as I do. I just keep my things in a drawer, but someday I'm going to have a little shop. Right now I'd like to search for an old, old rocking chair and refinish it. I think that would be fun." Kathleen studied a moment. "You know, I might have a few things of Grandma Mack's that THE IMAGE you would like to have for your collection. I know you will adore her little butter dish." "Really?" "And you know, if you're going into antiques, you will enjoy reading your Grandmother Mack's diary." Connie picked up the small photograph. "Aunt Kathy, I'd like to know all about her. She was pretty." ""We've often said you resemble her."' Connie grimaced. "I couldn't look like that if I tried. She's cute." "Just the same you are her great-granddaughter." Connie lingered, reluctant to leave. "You've been so sweet, Aunt Kathy." KATHLEEN watched her go, straight and tall, the sun shining on the crown of her silver-streaked hair. "Teens," she said. 'They ruin the beauty God gave them." She went back into the living room. Suddenly she knew what to do for Ella, John, and Connie. Like a blueprint, the pattern unfolded before her. The little table shone up at Kathleen, as though Grandma Mack was there moving another obstacle from her life. Kathleen hurried to the telephone. After some explaining, she convinced Ella and John to come up to her house. "Connie has been here," she said. "'I'll tell you more when you come." John and Ella arrived within a half hour, curiously wondering what Kathleen had found out about Connie, and why she had come. "She came to see the table," 267 APRIL 1965 said Kathleen, and then she told them the girl's secret love for antiques, how she was waiting for the time when she could have her own little shop. "She confided this secret to me, for want of a listening ear at home. Dreams maybe, but it is your medium of reaching her right now. Ella, you'll just have to disregard what she brings home, even if these objects do look dirty and messy to you. It might litter your place up a bit, but what of it? As it is, you have lost her." "Kathleen's right, Ella," said John. "We have lost Connie as far as having her confidence. I was thinking I could give her a working place in the garage, or the toolshed, Ella." "She'll need it,' laughed Kathleen. "Right now she would like to find an old, old rocking chair and refinish it." "That I would like to see," said John, but Ella threw up her hands. "We might never have known what Connie has been thinking along these lines. She has been clammed up for months, but now we have something to go on, and believe me, I'm going to do all I can to help her get her little hobby started." John rose. "Tl start today to make some shelves for her paints and whatever it takes to clean up old rocking chairs." Ella shuddered at the very thought. When they had gone, Kathleen put the little photograph on the table. Grandma Mack had done it again—moved toward another generation. Her image would be the guiding light in Connie's life and the children she might have. Kathleen was sure of that. At the moment in her heart she let go of the little Chippendale table. At the right time and the right place, she would give it to Connie. When Connie got her own home, Kathleen was sure that it would be Connie who would carry the image of Grandma Mack for other generations. So You Must Try Your Wings Mabel Jones Gabbott The mother wren is wiser far than I; | watch her in her nest in the linden tree; She brings her babies food, and carefully Beneath her wings she shelters them. When the sky Is dark and troubled, with watchful guarding eye She fends against a seeming danger. Small And featherless, the birds accept it all. Then comes the time when they must learn to fly. This she cannot do for them; and so She pushes each one from the nest; they go Faltering at first, then winging, soaring high. So you must try your wings... | know. And | Shall hope to be as brave as any wren, Knowing you will return again, again... 268 Ramona W. Cannon During the inauguration on January 20, 1965, of Lyndon Baines Johnson as thirty-sixth President of the United States, his wife, Claudia Alta Taylor Johnson, known as Lady Bird, held the Bible upon which he took his oath of office. This seemed to be an expression of appreciation for Lady Bird's long years of many-faceted devotion and help to her husband, of which he has been outspoken. Claudia Taylor was one of the top ten in her graduating class from the University of Texas, returning for classes in journalism, typewriting, and shorthand. Characterized as a lovely hostess, ''a woman of tact, graciousness, consideration, and deep compassion for humanity,'' she is also a very successful business woman. Mrs. Hubert H. (Muriel) Humphrey, wife of the Vice-President of the United States, is a home-and-family-centered woman, who has had many years' experience as the wife of a man deeply involved in politics, first as Mayor of Minneapolis, Minnesota, then as Senator from his home State. The four Humphrey children are: Nancy H., Douglas, Robert, and Hubert Humphrey, Ill. They have lived modestly in a four-bedroom home in suburban Chevy Chase, Maryland. The world's sympathy and kindest wishes were extended to Mrs. Winston (Clementine Hozier) Churchill upon the death of her husband, a truly great figure in world history. He called her "'my darling Clementine' and paid her this tribute: "'l married and lived happily ever after."" Beautiful and brilliant, Lady Churchill has been contented with her role as wife, genuine companion, and hostess for her husband, and mother of their children. Sir Winston's mother was an American, Jennie Jerome. One of the most eloquent tributes to Sir Winston Churchill, broadcast on television, was that of Lady Margot Asquith, a friend of Sir Winston and his family since she was nineteen years old. She expressed with extraordinary insight and in well-chosen words the true greatness of his many-sided genius. Lady Margot herself was an outstanding figure for some years in Britain's political life. Mrs. Maria Washburn, wife, mother, and homemaker, is a world-famous physicist. She is a research specialist for Bausch and Lomb, Inc., on assignment to the department of bio-physics and opthalmic instruments. In February 1965, Relief Society columnist and contributor, Ramona W. Cannon was awarded a golden plaque from the Utah Council on Family Relations, for her outstanding efforts and wise counsel in the improvement of family life. Mother of seven children, and former Relief Society President in the British Mission, when her husband Joseph J. Cannon presided there, Mrs. Cannon has also traveled extensively, and has received degrees in sociology and psychology, and has taken courses in psychiatry towards her Doctor's Degree. 269 "Sufficient Unto the Day" © Inthe Sermon on the Mount as given in Matthew, the Savior deClared these words, ''Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." remembered dreads, conjured up by 'if were mulled over not in Looking back, moreover, it seems as if the "ifs" one worried about did not usually Materialize, |t Was the unexpected evil that formity with the admonition "Sufficient unto the day is the evil there. Of'? Many of Our "'borrowed troubles" arise from our fe EDITORIAL which causes her concern, then is the time to correct the tendency unwaveringly but in a spirit of love. This will save her many an 'if' fear later. With serious illness it is very difficult not to be almost overwhelmed with dreads of the future. One woman found reassurance by repeating to herself the words of Isaiah, "Say to them that are of fearful heart, Be strong, fear not' (Isaiah 35:4). Another woman during the lonely vigils of the night comforted herself with the words of the Twenty-third Psalm. Scriptures which strengthen one's faith lighten the abyss of the soul where the "ifs"? Lurk. The Savior must have obeyed his own counsel, else how could he have borne what lay before him? With Gethsemane ahead, still he lived in the present as he said to his apostles "with desire | have desired to eat this passover with you before | suffer' (Luke 22:15). He seemed to savor to the utmost the pleasure of being with the apostles and training and teaching them at the Last Supper, the last for him on earth. In all the circumstances through which one passes, it is well to remember that the present moment is all that must be borne. It is also good to remember the wise saying, 'This too will pass." Accept the present and live with it, buoyed up by faith and trust in the Lord. Seek to cast away fears. Rebuke one's troubled heart as the Savior rebuked the troubled tempest and sea with the command, '"'Peace, be still' (Mark 4:39). —M. C. S. Use of Selections From the Literature Text In response to inquiries which have come to the General Board regarding the duplicating of selections for class use from the Relief Society literature text Out of the Best Books, we give the following information: In the textbook under "Acknowledgments," pages xiii to xiv, a listing of the selections under copyright restrictions are given. It is not permissible for a class leader to duplicate any of the selections listed therein. Selections other than those listed, where no copyright restrictions have been imposed by the authors, may be duplicated by the class leader for use in the class. Stake Social Science Leadership Department in Summer Not to Be Held It is not expected that a stake leadership social science department be held for the four summer month lessons of the course, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home." This is in conformity with the Handbook instructions that no leadership meetings be held during the four-month summer period (Handbook, page 70). Color Transparencies for Use in The Relief Society Magazine Where Relief Societies or Magazine readers wish to submit pictures for use in the 4-color section of the Relief Society Magazine, the transparencies must be of excellent quality, clear and distinct in detail, and of deep, rich color. Sizes larger than 35 mm. Kodachrome transparencies are preferred. Colored photograph prints or their negatives are not satisfactory for reproduction. In photographing subjects focus on the object itself at close range. 272 Anne S. W. Gould ' et gospel brings joy into our lives because we learn to love people. We realize we are all brothers and sisters, children of the Heavenly Father, all learning our lessons in the school of life. To love people we must have patience and tolerance. It is easy to love people you know love you, but it is hard, sometimes, to love or even like some people with whom we come in contact. We should see all people as God's spirit children, for each one is dear to the Heavenly Father. Then how can we be impatient or critical? A Chinese proverb says, "Draw a veil over your neighbor's faults, and think of his virtues." If you can't see any virtues, think of your own faults, he may not see any virtue in you either. Our Lord Jesus Christ said in John's gospel, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another.... By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples.... (John 13:34-35). These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full" (John 15:11). In accepting the gospel in its fulness, we forget our small selves in trying to bring happiness to those around us. We learn to serve and to be helpful in many ways, which, in turn, help us to overcome selfishness and faults. Often we fail, but if it is the great desire of our life, we are helped by the Holy Spirit and as we try, so our joy is. Clara Horne Park | [ow can we become master of ourselves unless we read the scriptures? In them we have eternal life. In them we can discover glorious truths and hopes of a greater life worthy of striving for, worthy of obtaining, and necessary to our salvation as children of God. In the book of James we read: "But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits; without partiality, and without hypocrisy. "And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace, of them that make peace" (James 3:17-18). "Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up" (Ibid., 4:10). How great is God and how wondrous are his works! As sisters of Relief Society and daughters of our Father in heaven, we seek for wisdom, peace, good fruits, and humility. We gain strength by reading his word. 273 Garrison H. Davidson Chairman, 1965 Crusade Do you have iatrophobia? It's not a serious disease. It's easy ° to cure. But too many people have it. Iatrophobia means fear of going to the doctor. The cure? Picking up the phone and making an appointment with your doctor for a complete physical checkup. If Americans with iatrophobia would only take the cure, 92,000 lives could be saved from cancer this year which otherwise will be lost. These deaths are caused as much by people's attitudes as by cancer. Too many people whose cancers could be cured wait too long to call their doctors. Be alert to Cancer's Seven Danger Signals. Unusual bleeding or discharge A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere A sore that does not heal Change in bowel or bladder habits Hoarseness or cough. Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing Change in a wart or mole SSN ES CONES See your doctor immediately if any of Cancer's Seven Danger Signals lasts more than two weeks. See your doctor every year for a health checkup. About 47,000 men and women will die of lung cancer in the United States this year. The American Cancer Society estimates that about 75 per cent of these deaths will be caused by cigarette smoking. The American Cancer Society says to stop smoking if you can; don't start the cigarette habit if you do not already smoke. During April the American Cancer Society conducts its educational and fund-raising Crusade to support Research, Education, and Service. More lives will be saved when more people learn to take personal protection against cancer. TO CURE MORE — GIVE MORE! 274 A State of VTA sect 2. Tithe © Grandma Olsen leaned her rake against the apple tree and sat down on the bench William had built so many years ago. Whew, she thought, this yard gets bigger very year. Of course, it might be that she wasn't as young as she used to be. At eighty-one, she told herself defensively, a person has a right to get a bit winded. She glanced across the street where she could see Edith Parker kneeling by her front fence planting flowers. Then she sighed and looked at her own weedy flower beds. In the past before ~ her knees got so stiff she had a flower garden, too. Why, Edith Parker's flowers couldn't hold a candle to the ones she used to grow. It took a lot of work, though, and she just couldn't do it any more. But Edith Parker was young. Only forty-eight. The prime of life. All the energy in the world. Grandma Olsen hoped she realized how fine it was to be fortyeight. Husband well established. Lovely home. Those early years of struggle far behind. Children (all worthy of a mother's pride) were nearly all grown. Dear little grandchildren coming along regularly. Relief Society president. So needed by everyone. Grandma Olsen had been Relief Society president once, too. It had been a hard job, but now she remembered only the joy of giving service. It seemed as if no one needed her any more. Her children came to visit frequently, but they didn't really need her as they used to, to come and give a new baby its first bath and the other things that had given her so much pleasure. They had grandchildren of their own, now. Her thoughts were interrupted by a small treble voice. "Be happy sings the little bu-u-u-uurd," it sang, "on boughs beneath the b-u-l-u-u-ue." The 275 APRIL 1965 owner of the voice, a pig-tailed little person of four years,. Appeared around the corner of the house, furiously pedaling a battered red tricycle. "Hi, Grandma called. "Hello, Cindy," said Grandma Olsen. Cindy belonged to Louise and Bert McCafferty next door, but she lived at Grandma's house as much as her mother would allow and called her "Grandma," as everyone else in the neighborhood did. "What are you doing?" she asked, skidding to a squeaky stop by the bench under the apple tree. "Just resting," said Grandma. "Why?" "Um a little out of breath." "Why?" "T've been raking my yard all morning." "Why?" Cindy's agile mind suddenly changed directions, thus saving Grandma from further explanations. "Guess what?" said Cindy, her blue eyes sparkling. "You know my old cat, Siam? Well, he had kittens. Four of them." "You mean she had kittens," said Grandma. "Who did?" Cindy asked. "Your cat. Siam must be a lady cat." "No," said Cindy, "he's just a mama cat. And you know what? I know a great big secret. Want to know?" "I certainly do." "Cross your heart you won't tell?" Olsen," she GranpMa Olsen drew an X over her heart. Cindy scrambled from 276 her trike and pulled the gray head down close to her own bright blonde one. "We're going to get a brand new baby soon. My mama told me," Cindy whispered. "Well, what do you know about that?" "About what?" asked Cindy. Grandma laughed helplessly. She was glad when Cindy's active mind was distracted again. "Look," Cindy said, pointing across the street. "Sister Parker is digging for angleworms." "IT think she's planting flowers," said Grandma. "Why?" asked Cindy. "I'd rather dig for worms." She leaned over and poked a finger into the grass and then jumped up again. "May I have a drink of water?" "Surely. Run in and get one." Funny, smiled Grandma, Cindy unfailingly had to have a drink of water when she came to visit. She thought the water at Grandma's house tasted better than it did at her own home. Grandma watched the sturdy little girl skip up the back steps and into the neat kitchen. Maybe that's the matter with me, she thought. Here I am thinking that the grass is greener on the other side of the fence, so to speak. I'm envying Edith Parker when I should be grateful that I've had such a good life. A wonderful life, as a matter of fact. Happy. Healthy. Six lovely children. A good, kind husband who never had a sick day in his life until the heart attack took him so swiftly away eight years ago. They had worked hard to rear their children in the right way, and now she could look back on a job well done. Her sons had both been bishops. All her children had married weil. She was proud of them. And come to think of it, there was still plenty to do. Her oldest great-grandchild, a gentle grayeyed girl, had asked her to help _make her a wedding gown because she wanted an "old-fashioned" dress. She would have to be thinking about that. She wanted to sew a little dress for Cindy, too. Yellow, to be symbolic of the sunshine Cindy had brought into her life. I'm still healthy and active, thought Grandma Olsen, and able to do a lot of things. Why, Edith Parker will be mighty lucky if she has such a good life. * * * Envir Parker carefully placed the tiny seeds into the ground and covered them lightly. She really shouldn't be taking the time to plant flowers. There was marketing to do. She should iron her husband's shirts. Or work on the layette she was making for her oldest daughter's expected baby. Or write a letter to Don who was a missionary in Norway. Or plan about some Relief Society matters. Or go see Sister Dawson who broken her ankle. There were so many things to do, but she had to get the seeds into the ground or she wouldn't have the flowers to enjoy in the late summer and fall. She wished she could raise flowers as nice as those which Grandma Olsen used to have. She made a mental note to dash over and ask Grandma her secret of growing nasturtiums. They were so colorful and Edith liked to take a bowl of them to brighten up the Relief Society had fallen andA STATE OF MIND room, which was badly in need of paint. Another thing she would have to take care of. So many things took her out of her home these days. But then, with just Peggy left at home, she wasn't needed so much there any more. Edith sighed deeply and glanced across the street where Grandma Olsen was raking her yard. She certainly got around well for one so old. Next door to Grandma, Edith saw Louise McCafferty hanging clothes in the sunshine. Obviously she was washing tiny garments in preparation for the new baby. The best time of life, thought Edith. Busy, but oh, so happy. And exciting. What could match the excitement of welcoming a new baby into your home? Of watching the baby grow into a small, inquisitive child, learning, experimenting, discovering the wonders of the world. And depending so much on mother. You lived in a world of peanut butter and bedtime stories and laughter. Her own early married years had been hard ones, with Harry working for an advanced degree and never enough money, but they had been happy years. From her present perspective they seemed to be the best years, the growing years, when so much lay ahead, when all the children were safe at home, before the world intruded and took them away to marriage, to college, to foreign countries, "Mother," wailed a young voice. The screen door slammed and sixteen-year-old Peggy appeared on the porch, her young face tragic under a mountain of curlers. '""Mother,"' she repeated, 277 APRIL 1965 "T've tried and tried to put a new hem in my blue dress, but it just won't look right." She was close to tears.; Well, thought Edith, here I sit feeling sorry for myself when I've still got one more fledgling, and it looks as if she needs me now. "T'll fix it, dear,'' she said, '"'as soon as I get these sweet peas planted." "Oh, Mother, will you?" asked Peggy. "TI'll come and help you with the flowers." She jumped off the front porch, not bothering with the steps, and ran to her mother's side. "I just have to look nice tonight," she said. "Roger is such a dreamboat and this is': my first date with him. Just think, he's student body president and everything." E pity smiled to herself listening to Peggy's happy chatter. Those early years when the children were very young were wonderful —it was like planting seeds in fertile ground. You planted ideas and values and standards in young minds and then carefully nurtured them as they grew. Perhaps more exciting than the planting was seeing how those seeds developed. You had to be careful with young plants. They needed a steadying hand. Edith smiled at the budding young woman beside her who wasn't quite yet a self-sufficient plant. Life is never dull with a teenager around the house, she thought. Her thoughts then went to her other children, scattered as they were all over the world. Don's enthusiastic letters from Norway were always an inspiration. Rex was learning so many new things at college. Joan, in 278 Boston with her medical student husband, was soon going to need her help with a new baby, and Edith was looking forward to the trip to a new place. Laura, from her ranch home in Montana, wrote hilarious letters about their adventures raising cattle. Oh, it was a good life, full to the brim. And challenging, too, what with all the problems of heading up a Relief Society organization. And so satisfying. Peggy was still talking about her "dreamboat" Roger. "He will be going away to college next year," she said, 'and then he plans to go on a mission. After that he wants to study law." In a few more years, thought Edith, we'll have all the excitement of another wedding. Perhaps it will be Roger. Maybe someone else. But I am confident she will pick the "right" one, just as the others did. In the meantime I'm going to enjoy having her at home for a little while longer. Louise McCafferty pinned a tiny nightgown to the line and sighed. She just didn't feel prepared for the new baby that would be arriving just about any day. There was so much work already and she nevér seemed to get finished. And Cindy and Jeffrey—it was always Mama this and Mama that. She didn't know how she would ever find time to do all the things one must do for a new baby. Pausing for a moment to rub her aching back, she saw Peggy Parker kneeling beside her mother in a flower bed, talking excitedly. She had her hair put up in big curlers. Probably had a big date that night. She would dress up in a pretty gauzy something and go dancing. Louise touched her own straight hair and looked down at her shapeless smock. She felt so big and clumsy. And so—well, - frumpy. There had been a time when she was carefree and happy like Peggy. What wonderful years they were. How lucky Peggy was. No endless diapers to wash. No worries about how to stretch a meager salary over an insurmountable pile of bills. Time to be just yourself. Time to make yourself pretty for someone you liked. She wished she and Bert could go back to the years when they were dating. Poor Bert. He was working so hard to provide a good life for her and Cindy and Jeffrey, and the new baby, too. Bert was always tired when he came home. She was always tired, too, and was not these days the pretty, gay girl Bert had dated. She hoped Peggy Parker knew what a glorious time of life she was enjoying right now and was taking advantage of every golden moment. She had so much to anticipate. "Mommy," called two-year-old Jeffrey, toddling across the grass to her side. "Picture." Proudly he held up a paper on which he had scribbled a colorful hodgepodge with his crayons. "Oh, you blessed little boy," laughed Louise, hoisting him awkwardly into her arms. "What a beautiful picture you made for Mommy." Jeffrey laughed, kissed her cheek juicily, and squirmed to be put back on his feet. How silly can a person be, thought Louise, grinning to herA STATE OF MIND self. I'm envying Peggy because she has all her life ahead of her and here I am right in the middle of what I always looked forward to and don't even have the good sense to appreciate it. What are dates compared to a little son who draws pictures for Mommy? And a loving husband who works his heart out for you? And a little daughter who is a living question mark and you never know what she is going to wonder about next? Louise bent over and picked up a soft sweater and hung it on the line. Soon there'll be a new little soul, she thought, a delightful baby who may someday be the President of the United States. Who knows? And even if he isn't, he will be a wonderful human being and I've had a part in creating him. Or her. By the way, she reminded herself, I must remember to ask Grandma Olsen if she can run over—well, not run over, at her age—but come over and give him a bath or two when I get home from the hospital. The words to one of Cindy's Primary songs came to her. "Be happy sings the little bird, on boughs beneath the blue." Happiness was not any particular age, she decided, it was a state of mind. Everyone has problems, at any age, but there are compensations and blessings, if you just take the time to think of them. Humming happily, Louise finished hanging the _ clothes. Why couldn't she look nice like Peggy did? It didn't take so long to wind up your hair on curlers. She would sit down and do it as soon as she went in so her hair would be nice and fluffy 279 APRIL 1965 when Bert came home. And she would make the soup that he liked so much for dinner. Just to let him know how much she loved him and her life with him. Prccy Parker chattered gaily, but behind the carefree talk was a nagging doubt. What if Roger didn't like her? There were so many girls who would like to go out with him. What would she say to him? What if he didn't ask her out again? Oh, she would just flip if he didn't ask her for another date. Perhaps she could ask him to help her with chemistry. He was a whiz in chemistry. There was a big exam coming up and she certainly could use some help. Peggy stopped planting seeds for a moment and looked across the street at Grandma Olsen's house. There was little Cindy 'McCafferty playing in Grandma's yard. Now that was the best age to be. No problems. Someone else took care of your every need. All you had to do was eat and sleep and play. No worries about school or making the right impression on a boy. Wouldn't it be wonderful to be four years old again? Peggy sighed. "T haven't had a chance; to tell you," said her mother, "because I wanted to talk to your father first, but I got a letter from Alice Wall yesterday, and she has invited you to come and stay with them for a month this coming summer. Your father and I think we can send you on the plane if you want to go." "If I want to go," exclaimed Peggy. 'Oh, mother, how perfectly divine." 280 Alice Wall was Diana Wall's mother and Diana Wall had been Peggy's absolutely best friend all her life until her family moved to another city 1000 miles away a year before. Just think of going to visit her. On a plane. All by herself. A plane! She and Diana used to dream all the time of being stewardesses when they were old enough. Now she could find out if she really liked flying. Or if she would rather go to nursing school. She and Diana would talk about it. Oh, they had months and months of news to discuss. She wished Diana were here right now so she could tell her about Roger. And all her worries about the coming date. Oh, fudge, so what if he didn't like her. There were certainly other boys around. Why, Dave Brenner said hello to her in the hall just two days ago and he was none other than the greatest football star Scofield High had ever had. Well, she wasn't going to worry anymore about the date with Roger. She was just going to go and have a good time. She must remember to run across the street and ask Grandma Olsen if she would lend her the pretty flower she had made in Relief Society. It would look so nice on her blue dress. Peggy laughed aloud. How wonderful it was to be sixteen years old and have so many thrilling things ahead. Cinpy!" Cindy heard her mother's call and debated briefly whether she should pretend she hadn't heard. But Mama had told her just yesterday what a big girl she was now and how much she needed her help, so she decided she had better go home. But first she took one more drink, her third today, from the orate, old-fashioned faucet in Grandma Olsen's sink. Mama said that the same water that came to Grandma Olsen's house came to their house, but Cindy didn't believe it. She knew the water that came from that carved faucet with the long curving handle was much colder, much clearer. Sometimes she pretended the fancy faucet was magic and that lemonade poured from it instead of water. It wasn't hard to imagine. Cindy climbed down from the chair by the sink and danced across the shining kitchen linoleum toward the back door. Before she went out she peeped into the bathroom at the enormous white bathtub that stood there on slender little clawed feet. Not at all like the plain square tub at home. Someday she would ask Grandma if she could have a bath in that tub. She ran out the back door calling, "I'm coming, Mama." Grandma Olsen was raking her yard again. Cindy stopped to watch her stack some weeds into a neat pile. "Thanks for the water, Grandma Olsen," she said. "You're welcome, Cindy." Cindy wondered if she dared ask Grandma Olsen to show her how her teeth came out. She guessed Grandma was too busy right then. "Cindy!" called her mother a second time. Wasn't it annoying to have someone always telling you what to do? Wouldn't it be wonderful to be a little old lady like GrandA STATE OF MIND ma Olsen and live by yourself in a little house that was neat as a pin? And have fancy curved faucets in your kitchen sink that poured out lemonade if you wanted them to? And a bathtub that stood on little clawed feet? And have teeth that you could take right out of your mouth and put in a glass of water overnight? And have a big box of old Christmas cards that you could take out, and look at all the pretty pictures? And a big rocking chair with a fat cushion? And a jewel box full of sparkly brooches? And a bench under an apple tree? Oh, thought Cindy fervently, I wish I were as old as Grandma Olsen. "I've got to go now," Cindy told Grandma Olsen. "I'll come back as soon as I can." "You do that," said Grandma. "And my old cat Siam, I'll tell you if he has any more kittens." "T still think he must be a lady cat." "No, just a mama cat. And I'll tell you if my mother goes after the new baby." "T'll be waiting to hear."' Cindy climbed onto her tricycle and roosted precariously on the back edge of the seat. "I'm a cowboy," she informed Grandma Olsen, '"'and this old horse is about to buck me off. Giddyup." She pedaled off, rounding the corner of the house on two wheels. ''Be happy sings the little bu-u-u-urd," she yodeled, 'on boughs beneath the b-u-l-u-u-ue." As long as I can't be a little old lady like Grandma Olsen, she thought, I'm glad I've got a red tricycle that can turn into a horse just any old time I want. 281 We Are God's Children Rixta Werbe Bremerhaven, Germany ® At the age of seventeen, when I had reached the threshold of adulthood and, therefore, was exposed to decisive influences upon my future life, I heard this sentence: "There are no bad people. If someone does something bad, there is a cause, a reason, why he acts like that." I do not wish to examine at this point to what extent this statement is correct. In any case, at that time I had reached an age at which I believingly accepted the words of any adult person, and looking back now, I am grateful for those words which did not only change me, but my whole life. In fact, I would like to say that even today, many years later, I can still believe that statement without any reservations.—Isn't it wonderful when you know only "good" people? Doesn't one avoid much trouble, perhaps even heartache? 4; The people hadn't changed any, and, perhaps, before, I would certainly have considered some of them evil, but instead of condemning, I tried from then on to discover the reason for their actions, and by doing this, tolerance and sympathy took over; for I attempted to penetrate their feelings in order to understand their actions, and by doing this, I frequently discovered the difficulties and troubles surrounding people. I realized that there may be many reasons—fear, perhaps caused by bad experiences; lack of. Ability, which might lead to this person being teased or to be compared unfavorably with others; distrust and lack of confidence in others, often justified; the desire to please or impress others, perhaps brought about by extreme loneliness.... One can extend this list infinitely, and, looking more closely at these reasons, one will discover that many of them have to do with others, their personality, and reactions. Did you ever notice how easy it is to justify your deeds, to find an excuse? Well, if you seriously try to do this for the wrongdoings of others, you will reach a point where you can find an "excuse" for every wrong committed by them. Of course, we should not do this in our own case, but rather try to be as good as possible; but I think we may do it with others, for we are not to be their judges. God will judge them. And the direct results? Because we approach everybody with genuine love, they will return those feelings. When we discover weaknesses or similar things, we do not turn away from people, but endeavor to help them. Our continued friendship alone may give them strength—they will know that they are not alone—and in many cases create a desire in them to change, in order to retain this friendship. Often, people will strive to become what we think they are, if we let them feel that we respect them, love them, and have a high opinion of them. If a child knows that his parents think he is a good pupil, he will try harder to get good grades than in a case where. The parents make him understand he is only average and will never amount to much. It is the same with grownup people. Additional advantages are that we do not get angry nearly as often as before, that we get a lot more joy out of our fellow men and, thus, from our own lives. Every time I meet someone who is not nice to others, who, perhaps, even hurts them, I cannot hate him, but, instead, I feel very sorry for him, because I think of how lonely he will be some day, making everybody his - enemy. This way of thinking is by no means unreasonable; for is it not possible that there is some good in everybody? We are God's children, and every one of us has divine attributes. When I first heard this statement, I was not a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and did not tend to consider everything from a spiritual point of view; but, today, I know that this sentence has helped me to love my neighbor as myself, and that, without this thought, I would have had much less joy in life and far fewer friends. Amelia Davis Everett If I should entitle this essay "How to Get What You Want," I assume it would get more attention, but I would still have to travel the route our thoughts should take, for thoughts are seeds of words and deeds. All things are first created spiritually, We cannot see a thought, but we can see the result of a thought. Fear, anger, sadness, or joy, love or compassion often register in our faces. Other thoughts have their effect even though they may not be seen. The great St. Paul put it this way: "... The things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal" (II Cor. 4:18). It is a psychological truism that what we think about most we draw unto ourselves. Like begets like! The wise Solomon epitomized it this way: "... As he [a man] thinketh in his heart, so is he" (Prov. 23:7). Weighty problems require concentration of thought. Concentration of the sun's rays through a magnifying glass can start a fire. Likewise, concentration of thought in deep meditation, or prayer, can burn away many of our problems, or reveal the right course to take. True prayer is the expression of sincere thought — not just words. The Master gave this significant admonition accompanied with a _ promise: Proposal Muriel Jenkins Heal To her his words of love Were ripples on the sea, Or rainbows hung from sunshine's rays When rain clouds ceased their sovereignty. She smiled a tear away And turned to hide another, But squeezed a reply to the tiny voice That asked, ''Will you marry me, Mother?" 284 "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find..." (Matt. 7:7). To ask, one must have a purpose, and seeking may require much time and _ great effort. When the way is found — apply the heat of thinking, with faith unwavering! Beware of evil thoughts—they will light on any head, uninvited, but we need not let them roost there and hatch troubles for us. Shoo them away! This is not done with a club or a fly swatter. We must crowd out evil with good thoughts. We should think of what we ought to be doing, then do it. We can act only where we are in life, but we can think over the whole area of our lives. Regardless of the wide area we may think over, and the many conflicting influences we have to combat, we are responsible for whatever we decide or determine. We pretty well have to map our own courses for the years ahead. Fear thoughts cannot be entirely shunned, but they 'should be ousted as quickly as_ possible. Fear is the opposite of faith; thus, if we let fear in, it causes faith to waver, and it can defeat our purpose. Control of thought is necesTHE NATURE OF THOUGHT sary, though it is not easy. Try it for even three minutes and you will realize that thoughts flicker and dart hither and thither. We cannot get our thumbs on them, nor nail them down. It takes conscious effort. In other words, it takes thought to control thought. Difficult though this is — it is the key to attaining success. I was helped by a sign over the door of a study room. It said something like this: "If your mind wanders from the subject 999 times, bring your mind back to the subject 999 times, and you will eventually conquer it." One must keep in tune with one's purpose, or at least get on the beam with the right thought, and the right thought must be strong enough to brighten the beam. This is constructive thinking, or the law of thought by which we accomplish our purpose. Thought is the seed, act is the blossom, character is the fruit. Prayer is thought, thus God has given us the key to help answer our own prayers. "As a Man Thinketh... So Is He." The Children Lael W. Hill Yesterday is a big boy now— He runs down paths | cannot see. His laughter haunts.... | may not go, But here's today to comfort me. Today is my darling baby girl— | hold her close in love and sorrow; Her moment's need is mine to fill.... | have not yet conceived tomorrow. 285 I Visited a Relief Evelyn J. Barlow I visited a Relief Society nursery and here's what I found: A lot of smiles, some happy noise, A group of active girls and boys With eager eyes and restless feet; I tiptoed in and took my seat. I wondered how this leader, who Walked in quite calm, could tame this crew; But, as I watched, I 'feared no more, She very firmly closed the door, And, smilingly calling each by name, Made routine tasks a happy game. The prayer was said, then songs and fun, Stories and games—for everyone! They colored and cut, pasted and glued. And even my daughter was subdued. When lunchtime came, they ate with glee, And one little boy even shared with me! Then they rested a minute or more, Wrapped in their blankets on the floor. Then, up again for finger play, And a quick cleanup—in an orderly way. I left with my child—all smiles—and then, She said, "Please, Mommy, let's come again!" Solace for Tears Dorothy J. Roberts | have been blessed: A child has grown To a small, new woman, Not mine alone, Not mine to hold As the child she was, But mine to give To a greater cause. I have been blessed: The child that curled Close in my lap, Can face the world, Can walk alone And can defend And keep her faith Until the end. society Nursery What a wonderful] feeling to send my child into this kind of atmosphere, where everything, perfectly organized, runs smoothly and effectively, where the children can really learn. Truly it is a little bit of heaven when a child goes willingly and eagerly into a nursery, where I have complete confidence that he will not only be well cared for, but taught, with the chance to learn how really to get along with others and share in a well-planned nursery program. I have seen in past years, as my children began to reach kindergarten age, that they became completely bored with the nursery and only came with me because I insisted. What a change the first time planned activity was presented! My daughter came out with a smile instéad of a frown, refreshed, instead of weary, anxious to show me what she had made at "Relief Society." Now that she is in school, and her little sister has reached nursery age, instruction is more and more informative and well planned. I feel, also, that everyone with nursery-age children can do much to aid the program by keeping ill children at home, and by training children in the home to be courteous and obedient. I thank my Heavenly Father for the Relief Society and for the nursery program, and hope that I may be able to do my part in keeping it successful. New Serial ''Ring Around Her Heart'' to Begin in May A new serial "Ring Around Her Heart," by Shirley Thulin will begin in the May 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story relates the problems and vital decisions that confront Joan Morgan, a young nurse, in her efforts to achieve happiness and fulfillment as a woman who tries to harmonize love and service in her life. Shirley Thulin, the author, is well known to readers of the Magazine for her serials, stories, and homemaking articles which have been featured over the past several years. The new serial offers drama, life-like portraits of real people, and a subtle and inspiring development of personalities under stress of circumstances: 287 Kathryn E. Franks Spring has arrived early! I know, by the touch of the soft spring air when I throw open the window, that the last patch of snow has melted down beside the pond, near Willow Lane. The apple trees behind the lilac bush have flowered in pinkish white blossoms. Already some of the petals are dropping like soft rain on the new green grass below... And along the walk yellow and lavender crocuses have started to bloom. Next door, in my neighbor's yard, baby chicks peep and scratch. In the distance woolly lambs bleat on an April hill. A delicate breeze ruffles my curtains. I know if I put on my walking shoes and walk down the old road until I reach the edge of the woods, near the marshes, I will find pussy willows... And close to the fence posts the wild violets may, just may, be purple with petals. There is a wild desire to hurry through my morning's work... To rush outside. Though dirty dishes are piled in the sink, the boys' room in a horrible state of clutter, and dust everywhere... I want to forget it, and go. It is no time for baking pies when the sky is a pastel blue; no time for dusting when the soil is ready for a hoe. How can I concentrate on a broom when the honeybees hum outside my window, and the fragrance of blossoms floats through my open door. And I wouldn't need a sweater; no sweater at all. As a child eager for skates, a bike, and a kite, I run to the closet and dig out my old shoes, and dash out the door. Never Land and Home Blanche Kendall McKey "Where are you going, my little brown son? Where are you going today?" "To sail a river and climb a hill — | think | know the way." Of course he knows the way! Oh the wind blows low and the wind blows sweet Where never a moment is dreary; But he will come back when his shoes are scuffed And his seeking heart is weary, When his loving heart grows weary! 288 Hundred Years of Visiting Teaching Bertha Dickinson (left), and Melvina Jolley (right) of Santaquin-Tintic Stake, Utah, have served a total of more than one hundred years as visiting teachers. Sister Dickinson started teaching in 1900, when she was nineteen years old, and was a visiting teacher in Panguitch, Utah, for twenty-three years. After moving to Santaquin, she served in the same capacity for twenty-nine years. Sister Jolley became a visiting teacher soon after her marriage and served thirteen years in Liberty, and thirty-seven years in Elberta and Santaquin. Hundreds of families have been encouraged, enlightened, and blessed by the faithful efforts of these devoted and "experienced" teachers. You Can Tell Them Christie Lund Coles Let others say they knew my graver moments; My brief words, and my sometimes witty tongue; Some knew me when I tossed a saucy head, When | was swift of step and summer young. Let others say they knew my gravest moments; Some walked beside me when the path was steep. But you can tell them in some far tomorrow, Oh, you can tell them that you saw me weep: 289 inside and out Baby Bonnet Viade From a Handkerchief Opal F. Christensen Use a handkerchief with a wide lace border, about 11 inches. Take one side and fold up about 214 inches. Pin to hold. This is the front of the bonnet. On the opposite side (back) fold the lace edge under and press. Mark the center back of the bonnet on the lower edge, then fold the bottom two corners over to the center back to make a V. (See figure 1.) Pin together at lace edges in back, then blind stitch the pleat on the reverse side of the bonnet along the two triangles where the material is double. (See figure 2.) Place 4 ribbon and two lace rosettes which hold bonnet in place, one in back where V comes to point: one in center front; one on each side, with ribbon tie underneath. Sew rosettes through all thicknesses of the handkerchief. (See figure 3.) To make rosettes: Use a 3-inch length of 34 inch wide nylon lace. Gather on one edge and draw up, making a tight center. Do the same with a 5% inch ribbon, blue or pink, buying enough for ties, also. Sew ribbon rosette in center of lace rosette, and sew on bonnet. THE MAGIC HANKY I'm just a little hanky, As square as square can be, But with a stitch or two They made a bonnet out of me. 290 "Quickie" Menu for the Homebound Oa. J. Cannon Member, General Board of Relief Society I love the term "Compassionate Service." It means I can be of service to one who is in need. When someone is unable to get out of bed, I know she will enjoy my favorite "quickie" menu that is so simple to fix. HAM CASSEROLE 2 c. Diced ham 34, c. Water and condensed milk 4 oz. Cooked noodles combined 1 can mushroom soup 1 tsp. Onion 34, c. Nippy cheese Top with buttered crumbs. Bake for 30 minutes at 400°. Serves 6-8. ORANGE SHERBET SALAD 2 pkgs. Orange jello 1 11 oz. Can mandarin oranges 2 c. Boiling water (drained) 1 pt. Orange sherbet Pour jello into boiling water, then immediately stir sherbet in until melted. Pour into ring mold and chill until syrupy, then drop mandarin oranges into mold. TOPPING 11 oz. Can mandarin oranges 1 c. Commercial sour cream 11 oz. Can pineapple chunks 1 c. Miniature marshmallows 1 c. Flaked coconut Put into a bowi that will fit down in ring of ring mold and chill several hours. When the cassergle and the salad are ready for taking to your homebound friend, then you might tuck in a loaf of white bread for good measure. WHITE BREAD 1 qt. Lukewarm water 5 tbsp. Sugar 2 yeast cakes Let stand until yeast has dissolved, then add: 1% c. Soy oil (or other oil) 3 weil-beaten eggs 1 rounding tbsp. Salt 14-16 c. Flour Add 4 c. Flour and beat thoroughly. Add remaining flour gradually, mixing to a dough that is stiff enough so it won't stick to hands. (Knead lightly on floured surface and return to greased bowl. Let rise until double in bulk. Promptly punch down or knead about 2 minutes, or until dough is reduced to original bulk. Let rise until dough retains dent when pressed lightly. Mold into loaves. Handle dough lightly and quickly—overkneading or vigorous handling at this stage injures texture and toughens bread. Let rise until a slight touch leaves a dent. Bake in 350° oven for an hour. 292 Homemaking Suggestions ¢ lo = smim arnt Ce La simple and Subt a!. Jo Stock Marinate steak with part orange or lime juice. The crumbly topping for breakfast cake, made of flour, sugar, and butter, is better when the butter is browned. Gingerbread waffles are delicious. Use your favorite dark gingerbread recipe, plus an egg. Top with whipped cream. Chocolate waffles are very good—your waffle recipe, plus one-third cup cocoa and one-quarter cup shortening. Thin light-colored honey with lime juice and use for syrup. Store limes in freezer. Every bit of juice and pulp can be removed. Freeze a few whole tomatoes. Cut in chunks and add to stews or casseroles, just before serving. Add black walnuts to pancakes, nasturtium leaves to salads, two teaspoons of Worcestershire sauce inside the bird after it is put on the barbecue spit— it keeps the fowl from drying out and adds a sparkle of flavor. Quick salad dressing: To each cup of vinegar add 6 tablespoons sugar, salt to taste, and freshly ground pepper. Heat to dissolve sugar. Chill and pour over bite-size chunks of tomatoes and cucumbers. Make a quart at a time. Add dill, if desired, boil a few minutes, and strain. CHERRY-RHUBARB PIE Judith Leigh-Kendall Temperature: 425 degrees Time: 35 to 45 minutes Makes one 9-inch pie Make pastry for a two-crust pie. Line pan. Mix together: 1 pt. Frozen sugar-packed rhubarb, thawed 1 no. 2 can tart red pie cherries 34 to 1 cup sugar 3 tbsp. Quick-cooking tapioca Pour into pastry-lined pie pan. Dot with 1 tbsp. Butter. Cover with top crust and cut slits in it. Bake until nicely browned and juice begins to bubble through slits in crust. Serve warm. A ® han Viola Ashton Candland Spring crept quietly in this year, Unheralded, unseen, Until she spilled her color-rinse And stained the hillside green. 293 Page trom =: he Roselyn Kirk © The conversation of a recent telephone call wandered about and centered finally on the virtue of being in a hypnotized state. The distraught young mother on the other end of the line exclaimed, '"'Some days I'd like to stay hypnotized from dawn until dark!" I paused for a moment at the suddenness of the remark and was startled to find that my psyche was nodding vigorously in agreement. It had been one of those days for me, too! The cereal had overflowed the pan and had bubbled down into the dark, mysterious crevices of my outmoded electric stove while 1 mediated a dispute between the baby and my three-year-old. The cause of the disagreement was who would drink from the yellow cup. 294 After breakfast — interrupted by the perilous predicaments of cartoonland's "Courageous Cat' — we had just time to scrape the egg from three little faces before the playmates arrived. Today our yard seemed particularly attractive. And each new arrival made a_ successful attempt to keep the others in a state of screaming frustration. The Indians. Plucked orange berries from my bushes to use as ammunition, while the cowboys bent the branches of my very young apple tree to camouflage their hideout. Ninety minutes and one broken tricycle later, I had managed to entice all but my three to seek entertainment in other innocent neighbors' yards. I had _ just settled my oldest with crayons and color book, had deposited my youngest in bed, and was critically appraising the shambles of my kitchen, when the telephone rang and the conversation took place as I have already reported it. As I placed the receiver -back in the cradle of the telephone, I wondered, Isn't it true that I do spend many of my days in a state of self hypnosis? I seem to have so cushioned myself that any unusual jar leaves me untouched. I don't think, or feel, or enjoy as I once did. Yesterday when Jeff stopped in his play and ran in to ask how the rain got up in the clouds, I shook my head and said, "Later, dear." My thinking process—infrequently used—has slowed down. And, besides, the encyclopedia is on the highest shelf of the bookcase and hard to reach. And the day before—when the children and I made our weekly pilgrimage to the bookmobile—I chose their books on the basis of the latest studies in children's literature. But for myself, I picked an entertainer's book instead of one by a serious writer. So I stopped right there by the telephone and looked about me. Through the window I could see that the leaves of our cherry tree had turned from green to dappled gold, and I hadn't even noticed before. It was then that I sat down at my kitchen table, with the dishes strewn about me, and looked over a mound of ironing to my prize bed of chrysanthemums. I had spent a_ week last spring carefully working out PAGE FROM THE DIARY OF A HOUSEWIFE a color combination of reds, bronzes, and yellows. Now all were blooming and I hadn't even paused to enjoy them. I stopped that morning and really saw the sway of the feathery heads as they nodded to the autumn breeze—proud of their burnished dresses of gold and red. I felt their beauty. The cocoon of unawareness—the haze of hurry and tension—opened— and I rushed forward to feel life. It was then that I knew J must tune in on the natural melody that is a part of each day. Now, sometimes, my vacuuming doesn't get done until afternoon, but I find time to sit beside my son on the grass while we watch a furry caterpillar creep carefully up the rough bark of our tree. And my dishes are often stacked in the sink as I—book in hand—linger with Thoreau in the golden days spent at Walden Pond. When a neighbor drops in to talk about her son Jimmy and how he stutters, I stop. As I listen, I find that I really do care about Jimmy. Together, we discuss the problem—though the iron is placed on the ironing board ready to go to work. But some days I forget and, for a moment, the washing is more important than taking the children to see the cement mixer at work up the block. Then I remember! And as I hold the small hands in mine and walk serenely through the bright day, I know that the hypnotic soulslumbering has passed, and that I'm moving with the pulse of my life. 295 m Have you ever thought about how much a home resembles a business enterprise? The success of a business depends a great deal upon how efficiently it is run from the management end. The labor forces can put in many long, hard hours of work, but if there is mismanagement in the office, the business can still collapse. The father of a family can work diligently at his job, but still not progress financially if his office manager is anything less than efficient in keeping up her end. The most vital way to insure financial stability is a budget, of course, with tithing as the first item. But there is still another way to help patch those "small leaks that sink the mighty battleship." It is the Home Management File. An efficient business office not only files correspondence and re- 296 OFFICE FILING AT HOME Janet W. Breeze ceipts, it has what some executives call their future file. This file consists of good ideas and time savers clipped from trade publications, which may be adapted to future company needs. Many engineering dollars can be saved by consulting the future file before plunging into any new program or projects. Likewise, a home manager can save money by clipping and filing economical ways to improve her family situation, as well as keeping reminders that help her take care of the clothing, appliances, and equipment she already has. From the time I began my first home management file (long before I was married) until now, I have experimented with several ways of controlling it. At the age of twelve, I began cutting out helpful hints, recipes, and other items and pasting them in numerous scrapbooks. This later proved to be time-consuming, as well as confusing, when I tried to find something. As a bride (having seen a similar office system), I devised my cereal box method of filing. Whenever a new oblong box of dry cereal came into the house, I took special care to open and remove one side rather than the top. When the box was empty, I painted it white and labeled the closed side in red. Each container was a division of my file, and when lined up inside my red and white kitchen cupboard, they resembled a set of books. This system worked marvelously well (and on a small scale is a nice gift idea) until our twosome began to expand, and the cupboard space was needed for bottles and baby food. Other systems were tried, but the most efficient and the one that came closest to having a real file cabinet atmosphere, was a cardboard box slightly wider and deeper than a Manila file folder. The box file was covered with colored contact paper and stored on the closet floor at the front, where it was easy to slide in and out. The small cost of manila folders from an_ office suppher was very nominal when compared with the end results. In filing, the important thing is not to file just for the joy of it; keeping it small makes it more efficient. In fact, when I originally tear an article out of a magazine it goes into a small drawer. Then, on a blustery day when everyone is confined indoors, I file the items collected in my drawer. After the items that catch my eye "cool off" awhile, I am surprised at how much can be weeded out. OFFICE FILING AT HOME Divisions of our own file at present are: Children: This includes articles on child behavior, play projects, news of recent books for children, or other items which might be considered for gift giving. Clothing: Washing instructions removed from new, ready-made clothing (write description of clothing article on tag), sewing articles clipped from magazines and newspapers, pictures of "ready-mades" or some "designer" clothes I consider attempting for home sewing. Christmas: Ideas on_ everything, from tree trimming to candied nuts. There is so much to collect about Christmas. Family: Home Evening ideas, outings, and other events that we can enjoy as a family. Finances: Timely articles on better financial management, as well as receipts. (All important papers are locked in a metal file box.) 'Gifts to Make: Ideas and patterns for gifts or bazaar items. Gospel: A special file of thoughts for talks. I keep my own special file of visual aids and teaching helps separate from this, and my husband keeps his even separate from mine. Guarantees and Instructions: All of those little papers that come with new appliances.: Health and Physical Care: "Shot" records, fitness articles, bed-patient helps, exercises, grooming information. Home Improvements: Inside and out —-- practical ideas for minor landscape changes or interior decoration. Housekeeping: Helpful hints and new methods for a more efficiently operated home. Meals and Nutrition: Menu plans (an efficient way to eliminate costly 297 APRIL 1965 impulse buying), untried recipes, special articles on outdoor cooking, special preparations. Preparedness: Food storage programs and disaster information. Recreation and Hobbies: Games, party plans, travel tips, new hobbies, and other leisure interests. Self-Improvement: The one folder that can be for just me alone. Mine contains things I want to do to improve myself in many ways. This is where I keep track of adult education classes, the titles of books I want to read or would like to buy, and helpful activities. Lr you let the family contribute to the file and become acquainted with the system, it can be a big help when you are absent or ill. No more, "But what shall we fix for dinner?" or 'How do I wash this blouse?" They can probably get a pretty good idea from the file. Even our small children get involved in the file at our house. Each birthday they are given a new Manila folder with their name and age printed so they can read it. All Sunday School and Primary drawings (after a week of being taped to the side of the refrigerator where father can admire them at dinner), go into the child's current age folder. And when there is "nothing to do," the children draw or paint new pictures for their file. Few masterpieces ever see the inside of a wastebasket at our house. Setting up and keeping up a home management file need not be burdensome if kept within the proper dimensions of simplicity (things you know you will use, and not just wild daydreams). It can be a family fun project to give a really efficient boost to happier and more economical homemaking. Rocket Base Bernice Ames Peace broods here Where sand sprawls, tented with sage And purple verbena, Bobbing in the wind, like warriors on Indian ponies Rushes the ground swells. Quiet bulges till seams of light Split song from mockingbird throats. White primroses stare under wavers of wing Under scallops of jump as the grasshopper searches Every hillock and dry wash For a hidden fuse. Peace broods, A tall candle flower, Waiting to ripen, droops And petal by petal Plumes into dust. 298 Carrie Kemsley Walker and Sophronia Miller Petersen (left to right) are both active in work meetings in Lyman Ward, Lyman Stake, Wyoming. They have held these positions, as companions in Relief Society work, for twenty years. Sister Walker is famous for her braided rugs. She chooses colors and designs that make attractive rugs, and she sews the braids together so well that the rugs are long lasting and useful. Sister Petersen's specialty is quiltmaking— quilts made with unusual applique patterns—leaves, dolls, and flowers—and quilts made of unique block patterns in contrasting or harmonizing colors. When Sister Petersen is asked how many quilts she has made, she says, ''Oh, at least 250—between that and 300."' In addition to their long and valued service to Relief Society, Sister Walker and Sister Petersen have made many rugs and quilts as gifts for their large families, and they have remembered the needy with gifts of rugs and quilts. These two companions say that they are ''just as close as needle and thread can make us—and that is close." 299 Chapter 7tne Turn of the Wheel Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Elsa Brienholt leaves her native Heidelberg for America, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States ArmyShe finds employment in Salt Lake City for a few months, but when this comes to an end, she goes to Idaho to visit an uncle. After attending his small ward she decides that she should return and help build up the Church in her homeland. She goes to work for the Dawson family, in order to save money for the trip. @ At the end of May, Mrs. DawIt was good to be back on the son decided that she was well farm again, now that summer enough to get along without had come. The fresh, young green household help, and Elsa reof the fields was enchanting, turned to her uncle's home. She especially when framed in the was not sorry to be through for, distance by mountains that still although the work had grown showed a crown of snow. Lighter all the time, it had never One day Uncle Frederick came become what she or anyone else in and said, "I have a couple of could call exactly easy. She had, propositions to offer you. T'll give - however, been able to save glyou the best one first." most all of her money and now "Pm all ears," said Elsa, "alhad just a trifle under four hunthough I believe it is usual to dred dollars. Save the best to the last." 300 "What is best Matter of Opinion. And, in my pinion, the first js the best. If you think SO, We won't even dis. Cuss the second," "And leave me in Curiosity the here js all a rest of my life? Hardly. Let's hear everything." "Albert—our dentist son in time, Indeed," She replied. 8enerous. Now, Up and threw her arms around his neck, "O Wwonderfy]! You 1 might, Jt has Years since we Please, | can hire take care of the farm, bor's boy, who has been away at School, will on his Vacation. About how long? Don't think that Stay away from than a ¢ you re. Member right, I'm 80ing to make © Most of it» So yoy Shall," Frederick aEis, like to 80 back to Salt Lak would fee] more Satisfied and Contented 1 id so she said. «" OW engaged to Marry Dr Irton, who took on With me When he left. Off With you. And n 8irl could € more ecstatically appy. J Ope that you wil] find as much thought, her part in Margery APRIL 1965 The plane was scheduled to leave Salt Lake City on the 25th of June, and she arrived in the city one week before. She called the Knowltons soon after she came and recognized Clay's voice as soon as he answered the phone. "ns is'.. -/e "I know. The _ golden-haired Princess of the castle at Hirchshorn. When may I see you?" "Almost any time. I am here for a week. Then I am going back to Germany with my aunt and uncle." "You are? We'll see about that," he retorted. "'I had orders to keep you here." "You did? From whom?" "T'll tell you all about it later. All the family is going up to Brighton on a picnic. Burt just now called out to say that he had promised you a summer outing up there to make up for the one he took you on last winter. We'll pick you up about four." Clay's banter and friendliness gave her a warm glow, as it always had. She was eager to meet him again, as well as the rest of the family. Just before she left, Elizabeth said, '"Now that you've provided for Margery with one of your ex-admirers, I'd like to be next in line for this one." "He isn't an ex yet," Margery reminded her. "T know. But I can hope, can't I? You needn't be so smug and satisfied just because you have yours." Her tone was _ serious, but her eyes twinkled. "T'm not," Margery said quickly. "Not in the least. And, believe me, I want nothing better for all of you than to find a good man." 302 Wen the Knowltons called and picked her up Elsa was seated between Clay and Burt. They all seemed so happy to see her again that she felt she was almost one of the family, rather than a stranger from a strange land. She was amazed at the difference between Brighton in its summer garb and as she remembered it under four feet of snow. It was unlike anything she had ever seen before—with its rugged valley, where evergreen trees rose between huge boulders and a shimmering lake nestled in a green meadow—all surrounded by lofty mountain peaks. "You must try the ski lift again," cried Burt. "Only this time we'll go all the way up and back down again." "We'll go all the way up," said Clay, taking Elsa's arm. "You run along and find your own playmates." Elsa would just as soon have made it a threesome, but this was no time to argue. She flashed Burt a warm smile and went along with Clay. At the top of the lift they got off the chairs and walked up a narrow path until they came to a flat rock. Clay spread out his sweater for her to sit upon. "Now, what's all this nonsense about going back to Germany?" he asked, as he sat down beside her. "You're not really serious?" "Indeed I am," she replied. "We have been told for some years now by the Authorities that we should stay in our own countries and help to build up the Church there. Especially now that we have temples close by, there is no real need for coming to Utah. But I didn't realize how important it was until I went to my uncle's ward in Idaho. They were not exactly desperate for help, but many of the young people were away at school or on missions. I knew then that my place was back with my own people where every single member can do so much good. Of course I am sorry to leave my friends here...." Clay took her hand. ''We could be. More than friends—if you would stay. You know that, don't you?" She withdrew her hand gently. "Perhaps," she smiled. "And. I am very fond of you. But I must go." "You could change your mind again, you know," he went on rather cheerfully. "As far as I could see the branch was doing just great without you. Maybe you'll decide to come back here again." "Maybe," she agreed. "We are still young. One never knows what the future may hold." "On the other hand, now that my military service is over, I shall probably be going on a mission. And, since I have a smattering of German, it could very well be over there. So, I may run into you again in Heidelberg." Elsa smiled, thinking of her first encounter with Clay when he had indeed "run into her" and broken the expensive figurine she was carrying. He stood up. "We must be getting down again. I can smell those hamburgers way up here." They rode the ski lift to the bottom and walked over to where the picnic table was set and the hamburgers were sizzling on the THE TURN OF THE WHEEL open grate. It was a delightful meal in the bracing canyon air, and, with such a congenial companion, Elsa was sure she would remember it forever. When they returned to the city she bade the Knowltons goodbye and thanked them for all their kindnesses to her. Burt offered to wager that she would be back within a year. And Mrs. Knowlton added, "If ever you do decide to return, our home is always open to you." "Thank you so much," Elsa replied shakily. "Thank you for everything," and fled into the house. It was only a trifle past midnight when her uncle and aunt called in a taxi to take her to the airport. When they arrived she was amazed to find Clay there to bid her goodbye She wished that he hadn't come. One goodbye had been hard enough. "It still isn't too late to change your mind and stay," he said. Elsa's only answer was a smile. She knew that he expected no other. The luggage was weighed. There were final handclasps and goodbyes from friends and relatives. Some few, like herself, were leaving without any expectations of returning again. Just before the plane started down the runway, she waved a final goodbye to Clay from her window. He was soon lost from sight. When they circled above the valley she caught a glimpse of the golden angel on-the tallest spire of the temple, glorious in the glow of the floodlights. She 303 APRIL 1965 remembered that her first look in the city had been of this same angel and she was glad. It seemed a fitting finale to her sojourn in Zion. As they flew eastward over the Rocky Mountains, Elsa studied the people aboard. There was considerable contrast. Some were gay, starting out on a holiday for which they had probably worked many, many years. Others were sad and even tense. Just in front of her sat a couple with hands clasped, saying nothing to each other or to any of their fellow passengers. She wondered what lay behind their trip—if there were bitter memories of their homeland. She hoped that if there were, they would all be erased and the return trip would be a joyful one. There were two young women who had left Germany as brides and were returning with their children to get acquainted with their grandparents for the first time. Others were like Uncle Frederick and Aunt Edith, coming back home after a long absence for a joyous holiday. The flight was smooth and uneventful and they landed at Hamburg in the afternoon of that same day. "When I went to America," said Uncle Frederick, "it took me twice as many days as we have spent hours on this flight." Elsa smiled. "It took me as many days—by boat and by bus. I enjoyed every mile of it and am glad that I saw so much of America. But I am glad to come back this way—like a_ bird." Then she added to herself, "And am I glad to be back!" 304 THEY were to pick up a Volkswagon the next day, so they went to a hotel for the night. Before going to bed, they walked down one of the main streets of the city. It was thrilling to see the signs on the streets and shops in German again—more so for her uncle and aunt even than for Elsa. "T sailed from Hamburg when T left for America," said Frederick. "My, what a difference forty years has made! But some things are the same. Tomorrow we will go down to the harbor. That can't have changed very much." "No," agreed Elsa. 'Probably not. And when you get to Heidelberg I think that you will find that much of it has not changed at all. Of course, there is the new section, but there is still the old, as it has been for more than a hundred years, the castle, the old bridge, and much of the University." "Ah, yes!" Uncle Frederick smiled. "It will be good to see old Heidelberg again." "Well, I'm glad to hear you admit it," said Elsa. "So far all your praise has been for America and how fortunate you were to go and how much better off I should have been if I had stayed." "All of which I meant and still mean," he insisted. "I only said that it will be a_ pleasure. To see my old home again." Early the next day they picked up the car and. Drove down to the harbor as they had planned. Elsa would have preferred starting at once for home, but Uncle Frederick was like a sailor returned at last to his own. He in- sisted that everything looked just the same. To be sure, the ships were a bit different—a bit larger, perhaps, and there were more of them. But the harbor! Yes. Indeed! It was exactly the same. '""Now you see what you are in for,' Elsa remarked laughingly to her aunt, "you will have to go over every foot of Germany that he knew as a boy." "That will be all right," Aunt Edith smiled in reply. "He has worked and saved many years for this trip." "What if you become so entranced with Germany now that you will want to stay?" Elsa asked her uncle. "Oh, my, no!" he answered quickly. "That will never be. Think of all the grandchildren back in America." "Of course you are right,"' she agreed. "I was only teasing." WHEN he was quite satisfied, they left. The city and started along the autobahn towards Heidelberg. It was a_ beautiful summer day and the scenery was enchanting on all sides. As they passed one dense bit of woods, Aunt Edith said, ""Now I understand what they mean when they speak of the 'Black Forest.' It is because the trees are so thick it is hard for any sunlight to get through." At this point Uncle Frederick said, "This is a magnificent highway. That is why we are so late. I'm going off on a side road where I can see the villages and the old churches and the people working in the fields." Anxious as she was to get THE TURN OF THE WHEEL home, Elsa could not protest. As Aunt Edith had said, this was what he had worked for, for many years of his life. It was the fulfillment of everyone's dream to "come back home again," no matter why or how the home had been left in the first place. Besides, it was less than a year's absence for Elsa, compared to more than half of his lifetime. She could afford to wait a few hours longer. It was late when they reached Heidelberg and drove up to the house. Her mother and Maria were waiting on the front porch, and Elsa rushed into their arms. They greeted Frederick and Edith with equal enthusiasm. "You have not eaten, I hope," said her mother. 'Dinner will not be quite so good as it was three hours ago, but it is waiting for you." "Frederick couldn't wait to see all of Germany—or as much as possible," Edith explained, "so we had to travel the byways and visit all the villages along the way. That is why we are so late." "That is good," nodded Sister Brienholt. "I am glad that he appreciates his homeland. A late meal does not matter half so much." They went in and sat down at the table. "Karl would have been here," said her mother to Elsa, "but he thought he ought not to intrude upon the family the first night of your return." "He was quite right," said Elsa. Was she glad that he had not wanted to greet her at once? She could not be entirely sure. (To be concluded) 305 i; FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. North British Mission, St. Helens Branch Singing Mothers Present Music at Liverpool District Conference May 11, 1964 Winnifred Stevens, President, Liverpool District Relief Society, is seated third from the right in the front row; chorister Gladys M. Fullwood stands at the left (wearing a necklace); Ruth B. Green, President, North British Mission Relief Society, is seated fourth from the left on the second row; First Counselor Elizabeth McCormack, fourth from the left on the front row; Second Counselor Kathleen Taylor, second from the left, front row; Josie B. Bay, of the General Board of Relief Society, is seated second from the right in the second row. Jeary W. Jaussi, Supervisor, North British Mission Relief Society, reports that Sister Bay met with the Liverpool District Relief Society in the Wigan chapel on May 11, 1964, at which time the Singing Mothers of St. Helens Branch presented the music. 306 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Olympus Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Conducts Outstanding Nursery Program Standing at the back: Jane F. Buckmiller, cub scout den mother; Verna Lue C. Gledhill, Counselor, Olympus Stake Relief Society. Cub Scouts: Boyd Larsen; John Buckmiller; Brian McGhan: Mike Glauser. Nursery children, left to right: Dale Gledhill; Amy and Todd Henriksen. Evelyn P. Henriksen, President, Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: "Nurseries are an important program in our Relief Society work. We are continually on the alert for new methods, plans, and ideas to improve our teaching opportunity with these children. The toys and equipment need to be adequate, and often we need to discard some of the items and add new ones. One den of the Holladay Twentieth Ward Cub Scouts came to our rescue recently. As a surprise to their ward Relief Society, their leader helped them to make some toys for the Relief Society nursery. The planes, trains, drums, hobby horses, and stack toys, which they labored so diligently in making, were durable, safe, and delightful. There were sufficient to present some of the toys to the stake Relief Society also. "The stake, recognizing the needs of each ward, had some cardboard building bricks, made especially for the nursery. These bricks are light in weight, for safety, and yet so durable that an adult can stand on one without breaking it. Each ward in the stake was presented with one hundred bricks as a gift from the stake board. We are grateful to have the nurseries as a part of our Relief Society, and we are delighted with our new equipment." 307 APRIL 1965 West German Mission, Heidelberg and Frankfurt Servicemen's Relief Societies Hold Bazaars Edith M. McIntire, Supervisor, West German Mission Relief Society, reports: "The eleven Relief Societies of the Servicemen's District of the West German Mission should be commended for the outstanding Relief Society work they do. The program continues to move forward successfully in spite of small enroliment, great distances, and frequent rotation of members. The love and devotion with which these American sisters respond to their callings add to the spirit of Relief Society work among our German sisters." Upper picture: Heidelberg Branch, left to right: Julia Christensen, Education Counselor; Verna Evans, President; Barbara Scherz, Work Counselor. Sister Evans reports that the sisters "doing double duty as army wives and Relief Society workers, did a tremendous job to make the November 1964 'Bountiful Harvest' bazaar a huge success. The untiring hours and efforts of sixteen sisters netted the organization $250." Lower picture: Frankfurt Branch, left to right: Twylla Flanders and Nikki Viio (a Finnish-born sister) in charge of the Finnish booth at the bazaar with the theme "Far Away Places," in October 1964. Thelda G. Haines, President, Frankfurt. Branch, reports: 'The chapel we share with the German saints has three levels. The main floor houses the chapel, where the Primary children presented a program that carried out our theme. Some classes presented a German song and skit, some sang an American song, and one class modeled clothing from many countries. After the program, a Mexican chili dinner was served by serape-clad girls in the basement. Upstairs in the cultural hall one could visit faraway places. Each booth represented a country and was decorated in the colors of the national flag. Finland had children's clothing and toys; Turkey had baked goods; France had dress patterns; Holland was for aprons; Switzerland sold candy; America sold quilts; Belgium had linens; and Germany was represented with Christmas items. Our bean bag toss was from Ireland, and Denmark had a dart game. Our fish pond was American, too." Janet Trowbridge, Work Counselor, was chairman of the bazaar, and Virginia Fenton, work meeting leader, was in charge of the work. Materials to make the items came from Germany and the United States. Kansas City Stake (Kansas) Singing Mothers Present Music for Officers Meeting, Relief Society Annual General Conference September 30, 1964 Chorister Joyce Sanders stands at the left (in black dress); Marjorie M. Reeve, President, second from the left in the front row. Josephine H. McCall, organist, was absent. Sister Reeve reports: "The Kansas City Stake Singing Mothers presented the singing for the opening session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964. Many projects were sponsored by each ward and branch, making it possible for these sisters to leave their families and experience a week of beautiful sisterhood. Over one hundred went to the temple. Tours were planned ahead of time for all to participate. The stake gave an opening social on the train, with ten wards and branches each putting on a skit. Refreshments of candy, cookies, and punch were served to 187. Many laughed when we boarded the train with our boxes of goodies. Ice for the punch was put on for us in Wyoming. This picture was taken at a practice in August, when fifty-five of 189 were on vacations." 308 APRIL 1965 Craig Stake (Colorado) Style Show and Displays at Work Leadership Meeting December 1964 Left to right: Artel Podbevset, Secretary-Treasurer; Rachel Palmer, President. At the right: Delores Hitchens, Second Counselor; children seated in front: Rebecca Lee Adams and Jeff Dunn; model: Donna Wardell. Sister Palmer reports that the work meeting displays at leadership meeting in December were varied and beautiful. The applique and patchwork quilts were especially outstanding. A crocheted tablecloth and a colorful afghan were much admired, and the artificial flower arrangements, handmade figurines and wall plaques, aprons, and paintings added to the variety and interest of the exhibits. Many suggestions for Christmas gifts delighted the Relief Society sisters and everyone appreciated the artistic arrangement of the displays. East Sharon Stake (Utah), Edgemont First Ward Presidencies Honored at Social January 5, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Eva G. Gillespie; Margaret G. Pulsipher; Matilda E. Booth; Racheal H. Meecham; Jo Ella Baum Smith; Bernice L. Faulkner; Pearl P. Stubbs. Back row, standing, left to right: Olive J. Gillespie; Montess E. Hawkins; Elizabeth G. Ferguson; Connie A. Tucker; Ida P. Stubbs; Inez A. Messick; Thelma H. Sampson, present President. Sarah M. Grow, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "At a Relief Society social held in the newly dedicated Edgemont First and Fourth Ward chapel, all of the presidencies since the original organization of the Edgemont First Ward on April 11, 1926, were represented and duly honored. During the program the accomplishments and highlights of each presidency were related, such as fund-raising projects, contributions to the building of chapels, bazaars, and assistance to those in need." Columbus Stake (Ohio), Bellefontaine Branch Visiting Teachers Achieve One Hundred Per Cent Visiting Teaching for One and One Half Years December 5, 1964 Left to right: M. Jean Burton, Second Counselor; Virginia Y. Dowdy; Augusta M. Cramer; Ethel I. Hutchinson; Glendora M. Elliott, President; Louise L. Young; Kathryn E. McIntyre, Secretary-Treasurer. Agnes C. Fisher and Jeanne Nederbrock were not present when this picture was taken. Farel Rush, President, Columbus Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our December 5, 1964 leadership meeting, these sisters were honored for the outstanding achievement of one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the past year and a half. This dependent branch has consistently been an example to all our other twelve Relief Societies. Bellefontaine Branch is scattered over a large radius, having members in many small surrounding towns. We are truly grateful to these faithful visiting teachers for their 'person to person way of teaching,' which is Christ's way of teaching, so beautifully presented at our last Annual General Conference by Sister Anna B. Hart. Bellefontaine was organized into an independent branch the following day, December 6, 1964. Sister Olive A. Haas, now released, was instrumental for the visiting teaching program in Bellefontaine being carried out in the proper manner. In the first months she sometimes covered the whole area as companion to two or three other sisters. Sister Louise L. Young, formerly of Kauai, Hawaii, is the wife of the branch president, and through her lovely leadership, has often inspired these sisters." 310 Potomac Stake (Virginia), Capitol Hill Ward Bazaar November 13, 1964 Eula Mae Gardineer, stands in the "Southwest Curio Shop," with Virginia Gardineer, Laura Gardineer, and Nancy Kerr. Avalon C. Bigelow, President, Potomac Stake Relief Society, reports: "All geographic areas, from the rock-bcund New England coast to verdant Hawaii, provided merchandise and food for 'Regional United States of America' at the bazaar and dinner held by the Capitol Hill Ward of Potomac Stake. All ages of Relief Society participated—from twenty-year-old Diane Cherry to eighty-nine-year-old Kate Isbell, who baked bread for the event. "The East Coast had a country store, typical of those still in existence in the small rural villages which dot the eastern seaboard. Handicraft in the Southwest Curio Shop was displayed against a background of Indian articles, and this motif was repeated in such articles as ponchos and painted dish towels. Articles from the Far West were displayed within the weatherbeaten walls of a trading post. Representing Hawaii, merchandise was sold from a fish net draped table, with a background of lovely green. A large variety of rag dolls was displayed by the Rocky Mountaineers in their shotgun protected general store. Lipstick blotters and doll rockers made by the Southerners were sold from a booth labeled 'Christmas Is Coming.' The Midwest had a grab bag of articles suitable for children, in addition to seed pictures and other items sold from among the tall corn. Merchandise ranged from Boston baked beans to original oil paintings, and was enticing to the eyes and the palates of all ages. "The presidency feels that the use of multiple chairmen created greater participation and afforded many sisters an opportunity to exhibit hidden talents. By working together for the common goal of providing a delicious dinner and a colorful bazaar, the whole group has increased in appreciation and love, one for another, as individuals." 312 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Lesson 6 — ".. Alberta H. Christensen. The Worth of Souls Is Great...." (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For Second Meeting, June 1965 Objective: To emphasize the divine gift of individuality and the role of the mother in assisting the children to develop their individual abilities. INTRODUCTION The importance of the individual (spirit plus body) is beyond human estimate. Nothing in the world is more significant. The Heavenly Father implied as much when he said that his work and his glory were to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. Specific latter-day scripture also impresses us with the worth of each individual. Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God (D&C 18:10). All who believe in the divine origin and destiny of man know that this is true. They know (although they often do not give evidence that they know), that position, money, clothes, cars, beautiful homes, all pale into inSignificance when compared with the value of the human soul. Parents who sense the importance of each individual realize they have the responsibility to be as wise in their guidance of children placed in their care for a few, brief years, as is possible. This lesson discusses this responsibility and suggests some guidance practices. EACH INDIVIDUAL iS PRECIOUS In spite of certain characteristics which all human beings have in common, every person is different from every other person. No two individuals are identical, few are really very closely alike. This is inevitable and as it should be. It makes life interesting, enjoyable, and challenging. Although every mother knows that each of her children is distinct in personality, she may not honor the divine right and free agency of the individual and, therefore, may tend to exercise unrighteous jurisdiction over her 313 APRIL 1965 children. Often, parents try to make their children into replicas of themselves, and mothers, especially, may seek fulfillment of their own unfulfilled desires and ambitions by insisting that the daughters specialize in some particular field of accomplishment. Such practice is not considering the child as a distinct personality, entitled to that guidance which will help him discover his own abilities and ultimately to reach his own potential. DISCOVERING THE INHERENT ABILITY 1. How may the mother assist her child to discover his own inherent abilities? 2. Is it an indication of special aptitude for a child to show at an early age, a particular interest in the following: music, art, insects, mechanical devices, creative writing? 3. How may the mother avoid pressuring her child into an accomplishment of her own choosing? 4. How practical is it for a mother whose children are grown, to "activate" her own undeveloped talents? The above questions are pertinent to the priceless gift of individuality. Discuss, giving illustrations. IN THE FIELD OF GUIDANCE Specialists in the field of child guidance remind us that each child in the home must feel that he is being treated fairly, must feel that his parents really love him and want to understand his particular problems. When a teenage daughter says, 'Mother, you simply don't understand," what will the wise mother say? What will she do? Is it fair to compare one child disparagingly with another in the following manner? 314 Mother: "Your older sister Ruth always practiced her piano lesson, why don't you? You're simply lazy." Will the foregoing comparison endear her to her sister Ruth? Mother: "Your brother Richard always got an A in algebra. Why can't you get better than a C?" In addition to being an unwise practice, might this comparison be unjust, due to a difference in ability? Mother: "Your little friend keeps her room clean and tidy. You are dreadfully untidy and careless." Could it be that the "little friend's" mother motivates her child more wisely? What type of comparison is justifiable? (Suggestion: Individual progress in line with one's own ability.) "REPROVING BETIMES" Often the violation of gospel virtues is the result of not having been taught the correct principles. It is also true that children, for one reason or another, sometimes ignore or violate principles which they have been taught, and the mother is faced with the problem of how to correct her child. How shall she help him to understand that his behavior does himself harm and may be hurtful to others, that it is rude or selfish? How may she do this and still have him know that she loves him and that a particular behavior only needs to be changed; that she is still his "friend"? Consider the following comment: Girl: "I don't think my mother loves me much. If she did she wouldn't get so angry with me." Does this statement indicate 1. Poor communication between mother and daughter? 2. Mother's lack of _ self-control when giving reproof? In the following scripture the Lord has given counsel on the matter of correction which should be helpful to the Latter-day Saint mother: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death (D&C 121:43-44). "Reproving betimes with sharpness" suggests an important element in the matter of correction. What may, often, be the motive of many mothers for reproof? As you consider the following situations, analyze how you feel about each. Do they make you feel angry, irritated, disgusted, disappointed, or feel helpless? 1. An older boy teasing his younger brother, even hitting him, so that the younger one comes to you crying. 2. Boy, fourteen, calling his sister "dumb and stupid" because she does not open the door quickly. 3. Two daughters fighting over whose turn it is to clean their room or over a mutually owned article. 4. A boy being "'sassy'' and calling, "I won't do it, no matter what you say." 5. The small child whimpering over every little hurt. 6. The child who blames everyone else for his own little problems. 7. The boy who eats the refrigerated dessert which you have prepared for dinner. How would you handle each? Discuss. LESSON DEPARTMENT JUSTICE AND MERCY A mother is continually faced with the problem of mercy and justice. How may she be just in punishment and also merciful? To achieve a proper balance between these two great gospel principles requires wisdom upon the part of the mother and often prompts her earnest prayer for divine guidance. It may be helpful to the mother to realize that sometimes the punishment is already equal to the violation. Listen to these meaningful, although somewhat facetious words of this very, very young child: I wish she would not, scolding, say, "I told you so, just watch where you are going first—" That only makes the hurting WORSE And already on my bump There is a great big swelling lump! And consider this not uncommon incident: Kathy, age eight, investigating the contents of the china cupboard (against a well-known admonition of the mother), dropped and broke an heirloom piece of porcelain. Family members present, including the father, waited apprehensively, knowing how much the mother valued this particular piece. Kathy also waited, breathlessly, tears filling her eyes. The mother waited a moment also. Then she said, kindly, "Kathy, I know you didn't mean to do that. Come, I'll help you clean it up. Try to remember, next time, what mother has said about the dishes in that cupboard." Kathy had violated a _ wellknown family rule. Justice called for some reproof. Did her own remorse, and the recognition of the violation before all family members, justify the kind and 315 APRIL 1965 merciful response of this mother? What would you have done? ACCORDING TO THE LORD'S WAY No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile... (D&C 121:41-42). Although this modern scripture has definite reference to bearers of the Priesthood, surely it has application for all who would influence or would reprove others according to the Lord's way. A Latter-day Saint mother may do well to consider this list of attributes as she attempts to influence her children for good. And as she reproves for error, surely gentleness, kindness, patience, and love unfeigned, rather than threat or coercion are qualities which will bring both mother and child to a happy relationship and will lead both to personal growth. *,.. « COMMANDMENT IS A LAMP" For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life (Proverbs 6:23). If parents were perfect, the problem of parental guidance and of reproving error might be less complex; but parents are not perfect. In fact, the chief difference between being the parent and being the child is that the parent has had a few more years of experience. This experience is supposed to have given the parent wisdom, good judgment, and some of the disciplines of life. 316 And this is often the case. Yet, it is a sobering and humbling thought for parents to know that they, too, have much to learn and are also in need of reproof. Realistic adults are aware of the fact that they are constantly being chastened by their own mistakes. Should this awareness make parents more understanding of their children? What is the difference in being tolerant and understanding, and in being permissive? Indulgent? (Read the address by President E. Nathan Tanner, The Relief Society Magazine, December 1964, pages 884-894.) In order to give wise guidance to their children, parents, themselves, often need to change both attitudes and habits. They can change their attitudes and their ways, even though they are no longer young. Recall the dramatic conversion of Paul on the road to Damascus, his change of attitude, his change of performance. Were it not possible to change, why have adult (now called "continuing'"') education? Why have the law of repentance? How could there be eternal progression? Actually, we are constantly in the process of change, it is hoped, for the better. What is your reaction to a mother telling her daughter, to whom she has just given corrective advice, that she, too, is trying. To overcome a_ particular habit? What will this do to their mother-daughter relationship? Since the important responsibility of teaching the principles of righteous living has been given to parents, a child is entitled to be taught these principles. If and when he violates any of them, he is entitled to that type of correction which will not destroy his self-respect or make him. Feel that he is a rejected person. Might not each child be taught that a commandment given by our Heavenly Father and those given by parents who love him, are as a lamp, to guide him in ways of behavior that will bring him happiness and satisfaction; that correction is merely to keep him in the path where the light of that lamp may continue to guide his steps? FOR DISCUSSION: Make full use of the questions as they appear in the lesson. FOR HOME DOING: In the light of this lesson discussion, change your attitude and method of reproof in several situations. Write down the results, for your own personal progress in_ bettering family relationships. Begin now to correct some character trait in yourself which you feel needs correction. First Grandchild Vesta N. Fairbairn What do you treasure, What do you hide, With secret pleasure Fold inside Your baby hand? A wisp of a dream From lotus-land, A bright sunbeam, Or a bit of fluff Is enough. LESSON DEPARTMENT Dialogue Margery S. Stewart Little Soldier! Little Soldier! How is it with thee? Not well, Lord... Not well at all! How goes it in battle? Not well, Lord. Not well at all. Hast thou no helmet? None, Lord. Hast thou no shield? None, Lord. Hast thou no sword? Lost in the battle... No other. Dost thou remember the young David? Yes, Lord. What had he for weapon? A sling and a stone, Lord, A sling and a stone. Little soldier... Little soldier... Have | not then... A stone for thee? | have found MAY DAY HAWAIIAN TOUR 15 Wonderful Days Including Four Islands and Lei Day Celebrations April 24 — May 9 * * HAWAIIAN SUMMER PARADISE TOUR 15 Days * * HILL CUMORAH June 26 — July 11 There will be a 16 day, 24 day, 27 day, and 29 day tour arranged One of these tours will include Black Hills Passion Play Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 317 HAWAIIAN TOURS April, May, June, October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S$. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 318 April Is Eva Willes Wangsgaard April is a happy boy With a sweet young voice Running little trills of joy Practicing from choice. April is a growing girl Wreathed in daffodils Dancing as the buds unfurl, Switching primrose frills. April is a winging thing Of gold and azure feather, Small determined feet that cling To faith in rainy weather. April is a rushing north Of color, sound, and sun, Thirty holidays come forth To celebrate as one. Remembering Celestia J. Taylor | walked along the water's edge, And everywhere upon the sand lay glistening stones Like scattered jewels upon a silken spread. Here and there, where hurried eddies swept the sand, Were left deep frosted swirls of rich burnt brown. My feet were bare; the chocolate mud oozed round my toes, And veivet coolness bathed them as they sank. | stooped and gathered, till my hands could hold no more, The colored gems. "These | will take and put inside my house, And when | look upon them, | will see again this place Of sand and sun and jeweled stones Upon a pebbled shore."' But when | took the stones away from sun and sand and laving wave And put them in a silver dish or copper bowl, Or even when | set them in a place apart, | saw, not glistening jewels, but pallid rocks Like those which lay outside my door. Next time | walk along the pebbled water's edge, I'll leave the stones, but | will take remembering. YOU CAN ORGANIZE YOUR OWN GROUP TOURS The New and Inexpensive Way to Travel Anywhere. Name:..._.... MURDOCK Address: ___.. TRAVEL Wve BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 3......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8..........1.20 mores 5.......... 80 co = DESERET. Ews PRESS 1. This is an ideal program for social organizations, student groups, business groups, family organizations, religious groups, special interest groups, etc! 2. You organize your group... Murdock experts will do your planning! 3. You pick the country or place your group wants to see.... Murdock Travel will show you how easy and inexpensive it is to get there! 4. You can take your own group or Murdock Travel wil! Provide a guide for you! 5. You can assure your group of travel on the highest quality carriers (bus, rail, or air) and accommodations in the finest hotels! PPC C CCHS AEHS HOSES ESET HE EHH ESTEE EH OHO ESET OLEH ESOS ES ESCH O® Send for full particulars now: Murdock Travel, Inc., 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — Phone: 328-3161 CHOOSER ESAS EHLE HERO EOE HEH HOHE HO SEH HOOT HSH ESCO H EMO BOO eoeeecereeeoeneenecsen Salt Lake City's Newest Hondicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! % Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, ribbon flowers, satin fruit & many others. Write for new catalog. 50c Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY CO. New Address 3220 So. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 319 Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Russell Day Hunter, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Wilson Young Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Sarah E. Burton Foulger Ogden, Utah Mrs. Hattie Rushnell Foster Belleville, Ontario, Canada 97 a _ tee Middleton Jensen 95 Mrs. Florence Dix Purdy Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Maggie Rightenour Hope Hamilton, Montana Mrs. Elizabeth H. Slade Carroli Mancos, Colorado Mrs. Julia Florence Miller Truth or Consequences, New Mexico Mrs. Sarah Jones Harman Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyier Blackburn Loa, Utah Mrs. Mary Hickarson Wadley Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Lois Ann Stevens Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rachel Thomas Peterson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin Menana, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ellen Wilkinson Bradbury Bell Gardens, California Mrs. Mary Peck Brockbank North Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Roseltha Douglas Revor Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minnie Hegsted Taylor Salt Lake City, Utah 4 320 Ke? 5. Ady Coon Mrs. Esther Openshaw Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary Ettie Farrer Whitehead Provo, Utah Mrs. Lena Bagwell Dotson Yucaipa, California Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walch Bakersfield, California Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Frances Whitlock Payne Chickasha, Oklahoma Mrs. Maria Elizabeth Christensen Brothers Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Susie Knapp Campbell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Carolyn Erickson Palmer Portiand, Oregon Mrs. Rosa Pfisterer Larsen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ada Sylvester Snyder Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lina Lehmann Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Brickmore Larsen Preston, Idaho Mrs. Maggie McPhie Stevenson Riverton, Utah Mrs. Cynthia Ann Keele Larsen Arcadia, Utah Mrs. Carrie Roberts Passey St. Charles, Idaho Mrs. Alice Lucas Fenstermaker Millard Burley, Idaho | —— Cs8e r - Book res CNRis Two New Books That Will Add Depth To Your U nderstanding And Appreciation Of The Seriptures Of The Doctrine And Covenants And The Ordinance Of The Sacrament. Both are invaluable reference works, enjoyably and informatively written. No. 1 is THE SACRAMENT OF THE LORD'S SUPPER by Alan P. Johnson, price $2.75. The author of the LDS best seller Ji 'he SACRAMENT of the LORDS SUPPER "Fasting, Second Step To Eternal Life" has produced another equally uplifting volume — a carefully researched and scripturally authenticated analysis of the LDS ordinance of the Sacrament. No. 2 is LATTER-DAY PROPHETS AND THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, Volume IV. By Roy W. Doxey, price $4.25. The fourth and final volume of Professor Doxey's great definitive work on the content and meaning of the Doctrine and Covenants. With the words of inspired leaders of the Church as instructive comment on the various passages, the author reveals for us the nature, purpose, and value of this unique work of latter-day Scripture. SSSCERSTLTST STA SSSTT SSHRC CRESS RET E RE RSA R RTE Eeee.. T Deseret Book T COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN' ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Send book No. 1 ( ), No.2 ( ). Eniclosed is $...0.00000....... Cccccccceneneee as payment, by check ( ), by money order ( ), or please bill me, | have an account. Name City State Zip. Residents of Utah please include 3% % sales tax. R. S. April, 1965. Use coupon or write direct. Address a aaateys ne nactuesesceeeceeaeetens low, or Call your local; everybody COVered. Beneficial Life agent ee fase have your local Beneficial Life agent cal]. Sra W, TAU, FUE Fe, Street or a. = Virgil H Smith, Pres, Salt Lake City Utah Telephone. City.. BOB oo oo, State... -Zip Code.; i oo ta ! The IRGlief Society Magazine, Volume 52 "Number 5 May 1965 Jo a Chdll Dorothy J. Roberts | am weary of woods without you there, Of rivers winding in their greenery. Flowers pall and all the lavish wiles Of the piquant, ever-changing sea Are drained of their enchantment When they stand in solitude Without your eyes to look in awe, with mine, Without your words' enticing interlude. Without you | have no more need To take the fern-lined trail Nor follow sunset to the sea; Without you, want and longing fail. Without you montaged on a scene, My eyes behold but do not see. Your wonder opened wide the world, And gave it, shining, back to me. The Cover: Spring in Millcreek Canyon, Utah Transparency by L. Paul Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: View of Tomorrow, by L. Paul Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: | Mary Scopes | surely enjoy the Magazine. The colored pictures are beautiful. 1! Just received the March issue with all those lovely pictures of England. My grandson is on a mission there. Meadow Street in Preston, England, is so beautiful, where my wonderful grandson is. All of England is beautiful, with its rolling green hills—what a wonderful place to be. The article ''The Lord Is My Strength," by Sister Winniefred Manwaring was just what! Needed today. Gladys Rudd Salt Lake City, Utah | just received my March Magazine. It is a beautiful copy and interesting because both Grandfather Turner and Grandmother came from England. The pictures are very beautiful. Lula Kelley Prescott, Arizona Thank you for the lovely gesture of making the birthday column possible —showing that more and more of our elderly sisters are enjoying seeing their names in print for their natal day. It is good to know that so many sisters are living to a wonderful, useful old age. Vera Pettit Layton, Utah | was overjoyed today. Coming home from Relief Society meeting, | picked up the beautiful March Magazine, and was much interested in the colored pictures of the countryside and landmarks of Northern England, the beautiful River Ribble and Meadow Street in Preston. Then | quickly read the special feature "Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England,'' and to my great surprise, found the history of my great-grandmother, almost as | have it. | am a great-granddaughter of Ann Elizabeth Walmsley and her dear husband. 1! Have heard my grandmother relate the story of the miraculous healing of her mother and her great faith and testimony. | am very proud of my heritage and of the wonderful Relief Society organization. Della V. Passey Davis Portiand, Oregon 322 / yA | very much enjoyed the poem "The Oakland Temple,'' by Margery S. Stewart in the February issue of the Magazine. It is truly inspired, and magnificently, purely beautiful. She has always been my favorite Latter-day Saint poet, and this is her masterpiece, in my opinion. Margaret B. Jorgensen Los Angeles, California — | was so thrilled to find in the February issue of the Magazine Ethel Jacobson's poem "Valentine for Stephanie."' I, too, have a little Valentine named Stephanie, who is six months old. Thank you very much for a very helpful and interesting magazine. Claudine H. Brimhall Farmington, New Mexico What a beautiful cover for the March Magazine. | picked it up and laid it down, and had to pick it up again. It brought a calm and restful feeling to me. In this fast-moving and. Congested world, it was just what | needed. Dorothy J. Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Thank you for the beauty contained in 'The Time of the Singing of Birds" (March editorial by Vesta P. Crawford). It is lovely. | am sure the hearts of many readers will be warmed and strengthened by it. This issue of the Magazine seems beautiful throughout. Miriam R. Anderson San Bernardino, California | wish to tell you how much I enjoy the lovely Magazines. My husband is a student here, and he has very little time to spare, but henever misses reading my Magazine. The Magazines are a constant source of inspiration to us in rearing our son and building our family relationships. | gave some of the old copies of the Magazine to my neighbor to help her with Christmas decorating ideas. Later, | found her reading the Magazines. 'They are too beautiful to spoil,'"' she said. No college student should be without the Magazine. Mrs. Julia Whiting Moscow, Idaho the Relief Society Magazine ee EE ae ae ee Volume 52 Number 5 May 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features General Features 322 346 348 386 400 From Near and Far Editorial: Relief Society Compassion Marianne C. Sharp Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 355 355 356 359 383 Desserts From Australia Mary A. Lovett Family Home Evening Special Casserole Ida A. Isaacson Make an Add-on Pocket Adelle Ashby Quality Quilts — A Relief Society Tradition Just for a Moment — Jeanette C. Ryder Lesson for July 393 Work Meeting — When Has the Gospel Been Taught? Alberta H. Christensen Poetry 321 To a Child — Dorothy J. Roberts Gudrun Wathen 324 "Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" Vivian R. McConkie 327. Literary Contest Announcements 1965 380 Teaching Truths to Teens Through the Family Home Evening Lila B. Walch 339 Gifts From My Mother Sylvia Probst Young 372 Magazine Honor Roll for 1964. Marianne C. Sharp 385 The Relief Society Magazine in the Lehi (Utah) Carnegie Library Fiction 333 Ring Around Her Heart — Chapter 1 Shirley Thulin 341 The Fourth Commandment Camilla Woodbury Judd 349 Abide With Me Lenora Hansen 361 The Anniversary Nita Ellis: 3867 The Turn of the Wheel —Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Mabel Harmer Melody, by Celestia J. Taylor, 329; Joseph's Gift, by Carol Lynn Wright, 329; Drafted, by Bernice Ames, 332; Another's Need, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 338; Mother's Day, by Patty Linn F. Tolley, 340; A Mother-in-Law Speaks, by Christine Stacey, 345; Burdens, by Catherine B. Bowles, 353; Old-Fashioned, by Ruth G. Rothe, 354; Log Cabin Quilt, by Maude Rubin, 358; A Mother's Solitude, by Margaret B. Jorgensen, 360; This House, by Leora Larsen, 384; May, by Annie Atkin Tanner, 384; Rain Forest, by Ethel Jacobson, 385; Room for Dreams, by Grace Barker Wilson, 397; No Day Is Lost, by Rosa Lee Lloyd, 398; The Mother, by Lael W. Hill, 398; A Suggestion, by Iris W. Schow, 400. P) Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office. Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. — manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Vivian R. McConkie @ We determined, as young parents, that the greatest challenge of our lives was to bring up our children in light and truth. We knew that to achieve this goal we would need to formulate and follow a family plan. The problem was: What should it be? What course should we follow? We knew the Lord had commanded us as parents to teach our children the doctrines of faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost; to teach them "to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord'; to teach them to observe the Sabbath day, and to work—all with a warning that should we fail the sin would be upon our heads. (D&C 68:25-31.) We also knew that the man who at that time presided over 324 Vivian McConkie Adams and her daughters Julie (left) and Jeanine, wearing coats which Mrs. Vivian Redd McConkie, grandmother of Mrs. Adams, made for them in a home sewing project. The Church, President Joseph F. Smith, had given counsel and promises where the operation of Latter-day Saint homes was concerned. Among many other things, he had said: There is no substitute for the home.... There can be no genuine happiness separate and apart from the home.... There is no happiness without service, and there is no service greater than that which converts the home into a divine institution, and which promotes and preserves family life (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 5th ed., page 300). Not one child in a hundred would go astray, if the home environment, example and training, were in harmony with the truth in the gospel of Christ, as revealed and taught to the Latter-day Saints. Fathers and mothers, you are largely to blame for the infidelity and indifference of your children. You can remedy the evil by "BRING UP YOUR CHILDREN IN LIGHT AND TRUTH" earnest worship, example, training and discipline, in the home (Ibid. P. 302). And again: What then is an ideal home?... It is one in which all worldly considerations are secondary. One in which the father is devoted to the family with which God has blessed him, counting them of first importance, and in which they in turn permit him to live in their hearts. One in which there is confidence, union, love, sacred devotion between father and mother and children and parents. One in which the mother takes every pleasure in her children, supported by the father — all being moral, pure, Godfearing (Ibid., pp. 302-303). Upon mature reflection our parental challenge seemed realistic and our set goal obtainable. We would follow counsel, teach our children the gospel by precept and example, add whatever persuasion and _ encouragement seemed necessary, and then rely upon the Lord to fulfill his promise that if we trained up a child in the way he should go, when he was old he would not depart from the path of righteousness. From its beginning until now our home has been a _ gospel school. Parents and children have consistently and regularly engaged in organized theological discussions. This matter of teaching the gospel in the home presupposes that the parents know what they are expected to teach. It is the responsibility of parents to become informed about the principles of the gospel. Children will be taught and trained, one way or another. If they are not trained in the home, they will gain knowledge from their associates. Whatever their training, whether good or bad, it is not likely that they will depart from it. Rearing a good family is no accident. It is the result of following a consistent course. It is not sufficient to teach by example alone. The idea that it is better to see a sermon than hear one is only partially true. No student ever qualifies for a college degree because of the good example of his teachers. The student must also learn the lessons involved. Similarly, where the gospel is concerned, children must learn the whys and wherefores if they are to build a foundation for future righteousness. Sabbath observance has been one of the most effective means of keeping spiritual things uppermost in the lives of the members of our family. We always used the Sabbath as a teaching day. Following Sunday School, it was standard practice to discuss the lessons learned there. When my husband was president of the California Mission, a nonmember of the Church called at the mission headquarters and said: "Last week I went to your son James' Sunday School class in the Manhattan Ward in New York. After the class I met him and his wife and was invited to their home for Sunday dinner. A prominent musician friend was also invited. After the meal was served James said: 'We will now go into the front room and talk about the gospel. It is a family tradition. My father always taught his children the gospel on Sunday afternoons.' " Proper persuasion, as well as teaching, aids the cause of righteousness. James was a talented musician. As a young boy, he would listen to the symphony or- 325 MAY 1965 chestra broadcasts and follow the musical scores as he did so. One of these broadcasts was scheduled for the same hour as our ward sacrament meeting, and he had a great desire to stay home and listen to it. He said: "Daddy, I don't have to go to sacrament meeting unless I want to, do I?" The reply was: "No, of course you don't; but you do want to do the right thing, and the right thing is to go to sacrament meeting; now hurry and get your coat, or you will be late." IN rearing a family the problem of money is ever with us. Young couples who have the attitude that their happiness depends upon how much money can be theirs to spend are sowing the seeds of discontent in their hearts and making a miserable home for themselves and their children. A capable wife who knows how to. Manage the spending of thefamily income wisely is worth her weight in gold. A sad commentary of our times is that young married people expect to start out with the modern luxuries which it took their parents years to acquire. This spirit of the times is partly the fault of parents, particularly mothers. Children should be taught in the home, before marriage, the value of a dollar and the art of industry. There are few people whose money wants are fully satisfied. One's desires must be disciplined. Dollars can be saved if a mother knows how to sew, cook, decorate, and make handicraft items. We love to do the things we can do well. More women would stay in their homes and care for 326 and train their children if they knew more about the fine art of homemaking and what it means in the rearing of a family. Many mothers get great satisfaction out of sewing for their children and grandchildren, thus helping out in family budgets. Keeping the home and children clean, sewing, mending, washing, ironing, and preparing wholesome and well-balanced meals are all in themselves joyous experiences which help unite families in love and unity. Few things give a child a greater feeling of security and love than to come into a kitchen and smell the savory aroma of bread baking in the oven or some special dish cooking on the stove. Bringing up children in light and truth is a full-time occupation—and more—for parents. Fortunately, by following the programs and teachings of the Church, it turns out to be rewarding as well as challenging. And the more mature and stable parents become, the more they realize that the accumulation of worldly possessions and worldly honors should properly be relegated to the background, and that true joy and contentment come from rearing a family that is a credit to society and the Church. Truly, as President David O. McKay says, "No success compensates for failure in the home," for heaven itself is to us simply the continuation of the family unit in eternity. If we can learn how to arrange and conduct our family affairs in this life so that all members of the family will be united together in peace and joy forever, how great shall be our eternal joy! and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely Separate, requiring First ) ———$40 retained Y contesta ts to Insure i$30 against loss. ) Third -$20 4. The sheet ©n which the Poem.,. Written js to be without Signature or Prize poems wil] be Published other identifying Marks, in the January 1966 issue of The 5. No explanatory Relief Society Magazine (the ture is to accompany a Poem. - Ciet Written the Contestant's name and ad. The Prop erty of the Relief So ety dregs. Nom de Plumes are not to be published by others except upon eA Capers Written Permission from the GenPONY the poem submitted. Certifying: eral Board he eneral Boar a. That the author is a Member of reserves the right to Publish an he Church of Jesus Christ of the other oems submitted, Latter-day § nts, Paying for them at the time of b. That the Poem (state title) is the E 3 ] agaContestant's original work. Een at the "esular M, B c. That it has never been Published Rules for the contest: 1. This Contest is open to all Latter. E. That it wil] ot be Published no; day Saint women, exclusive of mem.- Submitted elsewhere for Publica. Ers of the Relie Ociety Genera] ton until the Contest js decided Oard and employees of the Relief 8 Writer who has Teceived the Ociety Genera] Board first Prize for two Consecutive years 2. Only one Poem may be Submitted must wait two years before She js by each Contestant. Again eligible to enter the contest. 327 MAY 1965 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person trom the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points:. Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1965. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Ae oe Relief Society Short Story Contest @ The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1965 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1965. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize................2--..220000000--$75 Second prize.............-.-....--.-----$60 Third prize...............00020-2.......$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1966. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 328 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submit- ted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be 1965 CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENT submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation. Plot development Message of the story Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1965. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Aon Melody Celestia J. Taylor Oh melody, your song has twisted my heartstrings As taut as the strings of a violin which With the touch of a knowing hand, Vibrate and breathe that song again, Catching its sweetness before it fades to nothingness. Nothingness? Can that song die When the wind, the brooks, the birds Still live to tell its story? Joseph's Gift Carol Lynn Wright When famine drained the ancient covenant land, And Jacob's sons went south for Egypt's store Of corn, unaware whose robes they knelt before, They filled their hungry sacks at Joseph's hand. Once more the world knew want. The precious grain That gives the bread of life had blown away Full centuries before. And now, today, In time's repeat, Joseph stands again. In strength he rises from his promised soil, His gathered parts made one, and stretches forth, Still quite unrecognized, a gift whose worth Outweighs the sum of Pharaoh's richest spoil. Oh, empty-handed sons of Jacob, look — And take the wealthy store of Joseph's book. 329 Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society @ The phone rang in the Anderson home. Verl answered and his mother heard the following one-sided conversation: "Hello, yes, this is Verl. Oh, Hi, Paul.... "No, I can't... Sure, I'd like to but I can't. No need to ask Mom, J know I can't.... "Well, I just know, that's why. There're times when you don't want to coax. You know I like to bowl just as much as you do, but tonight I'm staying home.... "Sure I feel good. No, I'm not grounded. 'This just happens to be a real special night at our home and we all want to be here.... "No, it isn't a birthday and we don't have company. Well, it Seated in front: Idon Chadwick Anderson, Dona, Ernest Anderson, Erma; Standing: Vaughan, Erlene, Larry, Verl. Rs: j;: b ag 4 ~ ' ¥; 1 i y = TEACHING TRUTHS TO TEENS THROUGH THE FAMILY HOME EVENING just happens to be our Family Home Evening. I know you don't know what that is 'cause you don't go to our Church, but boy it's great. I'll ask Mom and Dad if I can invite you over some night.... "We have one every week.... "No, it isn't preachy! Sure, we talk some about religion but it's fun. Mom and Dad talk with us and we get our questions answered. Boy! It really makes you feel good when your Dad stays home from important meetings just to be with his family. He says nothing except an emergency will keep him away, and we haven't had any of those yen... "Mom? Sure she meets with us. She helps plan and helps us fix up special eats. We take turns. Boy! You ought to see what we're having tonight. Mom and I just got it made.... "No, I can't tell you because it's a surprise and Donna would tell the whole family. She's right here listening to every word. Well, Paul, I have to hang up. It's almost time to get started on Home Evening. Tell Tom and Don I'Il bowl with you another night... "You don't think you'll go tonight either? How come you don't feel like it all of a sudden? You sick or something? Sure, I'll remember to invite you over sometime. Mom says you are welcome to come tonight, but since you don't feel.... "You do? You want to come right now? O. K., you'll find our Home Evening is really great!" Parents, could this conversation have taken place in your home? Do your teenage boys and girls want to be with you on Home Evening? Do they consider their home a very special place because they know it is special with you? As they grow older and leave you to start homes of their own, what will their memories be? Will their homes be founded on a firm foundation because in their youth they were taught the gospel, their testimonies were strengthened, and they learned to get along with others through the Family Home Evening Program? Verl's home was this kind of a home. For as long as he could remember, Home Evenings had been a part of his life. He lived in a non-Latter-day Saint community, and this seemed to make those nights even more special to the family. In his home the evening of study, program, fun, and refreshments, often included holding a coun-. Cil which was a help in solving problems that arise daily in a home of growing children. If these problems were of minor importance, how convenient it was to say, "Bring this up in our Family Home Evening, we will discuss it there." Of course, only the major problems were remembered, and the little annoyances were eliminated with the children feeling that justice would be done. In their Home Evening Programs they had fun times, serious times, evenings laden with nostalgic memories, learning times, laughing times, working times, play times, weird programs, good food, nearly always a spiritual discussion, musical memories, problem solving, evenings dealing with genealogy, family reunion nights, Christ- 331 MAY 1965 mas programs, birthday celebrations, holiday keeping. Usually just the family participated, but on special occasions they held them at the grandparents' homes, with close family friends, around the campfire on camping trips, or with a lonely boy invited, such as Paul. As their family matured, their agenda developed to fit their needs and enjoyment. For the past thirteen years, since they have had children old enough to record minutes, they have kept a written permanent record of family nights. Occasionally, when they want to enjoy a real special time, they read through the pages of their '"'Home Evening Record" and chuckle together as they reminisce about past problems and pleasures. They have had some evenings they felt were failures, too. Whenever this happened, father and mother held a council and sometimes called in some of the older children to analyze what was the trouble. Better planning usually corrected the difficulty right away. Home Evenings have been a source of strength and joy in this home. The family members have come to know each other better, to appreciate each other more, to enjoy each other's talents and develop them. Because of home evenings, their love for each other is deeper and their gratitude for their home is more complete. Their understanding and love for the gospel have increased and their lives are more joyously full. These parents have built memories for their children that will strengthen them in hours of temptation or doubt. The children have built memories for the parents that will make their lives rich and full when they are left alone. To this family, Home Evening is REALLY GREAT. Drafted Bernice Ames It was nearly time to go. His dimples were flags When he looked at me. Behind his eyes was a darkness. No word freed him into the room. "'Lamb for dinner?' | asked. "| don't care." But his words weighed like caring. "Some pictures of the family?" But now, ''Nothing extra,'' he said, Barely clearing the fence of the word. On the way in the car There was little but silence, Pillars of it... And careful notice Of everything outside whirling by. At the moment of parting I tried to focus my camera Adding to twenty-two years of futile attempts. We slipped the bolt of goodbye Finding no words to free us. 332 CHAPTER 1 @ The cab pulled up to the curb and even when the driver came around to open the door, Joan didn't move, not at first. A burden within her heart spread through her like quicksilver, heavy and fluid, and then found its way to her throat and swelled. In that moment before the cab driver got to her door, the past three years unfolded before her like an old melodrama, only the villain was no one she could vis- 333 MAY 1965 _ ualize. The villain was misunderstanding and circumstances. Maybe the villain was herself. Surely no one had meant to hurt her and drive her out of the town where she was born, and grew in. No one had asked her to resign at the hospital. She had only herself to blame for that. It was just that the echoes in the halls and corridors began to repeat the past, and drum the loneliness and heartache into her with every step. And the town, the hospital, the people and herself were all so tangled up together that she didn't know how to separate them. She had spent her happy years in Elmdale and had grown sensitive to its beautiful natural surroundings, its deep lakes and rugged mountains. And as did the people who were her friends and her parents' friends, the mountains warmed her and reassured her when she looked up to them. She had found life in Elmdale good. The days had been filled with the accomplishment of her hospital duties, and her Sundays had been devoted to her class of ten-year-old boys. Even when her mother passed away and she had no one left, she had felt that she still could go on, still belonged. She had learned to reach out and take that which was good of life and of her work, and of her fellow men. She sat in the cab now and wondered that all this could have been taken from her in so short a time. True, she still had had her friends and her work, but there had been the heaviness that lay deep within her, and she knew she must get away. She knew she was too close to everything and everyone in Elmdale. 334 As the driver opened the door, she almost told him to get back in and drive her away, but where would she go? She fumbled with some change and then stood between the two suitcases looking up at the building as the cab drove away. The three-story stone structure seemed bright, openfaced and friendly. The windows were big, and shone clean in the early morning sun. In fact, the whole building looked as if it had just been scrubbed with some kind of bubbly soap and washed off with a giant hose. The front of the building was new, but she had seen as the cab neared, that the rear walls were faded with the years. It's just like me, she thought, it has put on a new face of granite and now stands for all to see, with a new hope, and a new belief. It's almost as though it were laughing at the world because of the new truths it has learned along with the remodeling, she thought. Only she wasn't laughing... She was hoping and longing.... Joan leaned over to pick up her suitcases, and the door opened and a tall boy came out. He hurried down the steps and straight towards her. "Hi, I'm David. You must be Mrs. Morgan. We've been expecting you." "I'm Miss Morgan," Joan corrected, not meaning to sound so affected. For her words had made a shadow of hurt pass quickly over his face. His eyes, deep with ready friendship, had clouded slightly. "I'm sorry. I mean... Here, let me take those. The nurse's home is next door." Joan looked at him. He was so like another boy she once knew. Another boy who had lain sick for so long and had needed so much of her care, and then had died, taking a little of her with him. It was then that she had learned she shouldn't grow too fond of the patients. Shouldn't let them tug at her with their wanting and their needing. She found that she must be indifferent, withdrawn, efficient... But her heart was not yet harnessed, not yet disciplined. Now, with a new hospital and people who had never known her, she felt sure she could accomplish this. David picked the bags up and Joan almost told him not to bother, but she was tired from the long trip and she knew they were heavy. No use to be contrary, she thought. But she could not help wondering how she was ever going to learn where to draw the line between keeping herself in reserve, and being downright hostile. It will take practice, she thought, lots of practice. "Thank you," Joan told David. "T would appreciate it if you'll take them to my room. I'll go inside and talk to Doctor Niles." "First office to your right. He's waiting for you." Joan hesitated for just a moment, then made her feet move in the direction of the cement steps. She felt like a stranger invading the private domain of the king in a strange new city. She remembered the time she hadfaced her first hospital administrator. She was just out of high school with a scholarship in her handbag, and a world full of dreams in her heart. That was ten. Years ago, and a thousand RING AROUND HER HEART heartaches ago. Today, she still had dreams and she was frightened. She had heard that Doctor Niles was very efficient and that he was noted for not being overly friendly. Mrs. Davis, with whom she had corresponded in connection with this position had let her know what to expect of Doctor Niles. "He has come up through the ranks," Mrs. Davis had written, "'and is very exacting." Well, wasn't that just what she had wanted? Hadn't she been very careful to choose just such a hospital with just such an administrator? Before Joan had applied for the position of superintendent of nurses in the hospital, she had been very thorough in her investigation. She wanted a hospital in a large enough town where people were strangers. She wanted to work in a large hospital where patients were people who needed her help, but who were not her lifelong friends, their stricken faces pleading from white pillows. Hillcrest had fit the bill as far as a town was concerned, and the Hillcrest Memorial Hospital fit her choice of a hospital... At least she hoped it would. Joan started up the steps, and each one seemed a big climb in the direction of the unknown... Into an adventure that she was not sure she welcomed. That was strange for Joan. When she was little, she had been very adventurous. There wasn't a path or a trail she didn't know. She was familiar with each hill and each meadow in Elmdale. She almost knew all the cows by name. And she really did know all the people. Everyone said it was too bad she 335 MAY 1965 wasn't a boy, they were sure she could be the mayor when she grew up. But when she grew up, she had the same desire she had always had. She wanted to be a nurse, and she had become one. A good nurse, devoted and loving.. Only no one had warned her about being too devoted... Too loving. Well, it wouldn't happen again, she promised herself. She would never again be so close to a patient that his dying would reach her. Doctor Niles looked up from his desk at her entrance. "'Yes?" he said, and the word had a tone that made Joan uneasy. "I'm Joan Morgan," she stated in a very efficient voice, and she could tell that he was impressed with her statement. "Well." He adjusted his glasses and looked from her to the papers on his desk. "I've been going over your file. You have an excellent record, Miss Morgan, but you are very young to be...." "TI have worked hard to get that excellent record in so few years."" Her voice was just short of being stern and sounded unfamiliar to her. Doctor Niles looked up and studied her, then smiled a thin smile, one that seemed to reach over its boundary, as if it wasn't used to spreading that far over his face. "Well, I can see that you will do well here, Miss Morgan..: very well indeed. Here are some things I want you to study. I don't mind telling you, Miss Morgan, here at Hillcrest, we go by the book. It won't be easy for you. The nurses will naturally resent your age. It's never easy for someone to accept as his superior 336 a younger person," and as Doctor Niles went on, explaining, warning, Joan looked at him and knew that it would be not only her age that would be against her. Her new stern personality would be, too. She knew she would first have to prove to her staff that she was a hard worker, untiring and efficient. Then they would respect her, she knew. Joan looked at Doctor Niles. He was a man in his middle forties, and handsome, despite his rather thin face and precise features. Even though he was sitting down, she could see that he was tall, and that he was in the habit of carrying himself very straight. And though he disturbed her in a way she was at a loss to explain, at the same time she seemed to feel a certain amount of attraction towards him. All the while he was talking to her, his steel gray eyes pierced hers, and the fleeting wide smile did not show itself again. ".. And of course you will be directly responsible for the nurses." Doctor Niles finished and leaned toward her. "Are there any questions, Miss Morgan?" "No, sir. You have made yourself quite clear, and I am in agreement with your policies." "Very good. J'll have Miss Jackson show you around, and David take your bags..'.." "David has already seen to that, thank you." "Fine." His finger picked out a button from the row on his desk, and then he leaned back and looked at Joan. "Tell me. Why did you leave Elmdale? You were doing so well there." "T left because the town sud- denly became too small, and Someone...." She was going to Say that someone who Close to her died, but She knew Miss Jackson came in. "Miss Jackson, this jis Miss Morgan. I'd like you to show her around." "You're Miss Morgan? You look so young to be.,. That is "Oh, I'm Sure she will, Doctor Niles. It's only that Mrs. Davis WaS so... Sg much older,. | ~~ Dr. Niles ignored her statement and turned to Joan. "Miss Morgan, we have very inadequate I We are Planning about them. T or two troublemakers that she RING AROUND HER HEART had learned to spot very quickly, and there were several of the Then suddenly there was Doctor Dean Desmond. As Miss J ackson spoke his name Joan Joan was nearly asleep when She heard the key in the door. The light Switched on, "Oh, you're here already. I'm Kathy Dirk, your roommate." "T'm Joan Morgan. It's almost eleven. Aren't you, 4 337 MAY 1965 honestly, you'd think we had to go a thousand miles rather than less than a hundred." Kathy slipped out of her smart street clothes and into her nightgown as she talked. "You know, being a member of a big family has its problems. Mom still thinks I'm a baby, and not capable of staying at Hillcrest for one single week end." "You mean you have every week end off?" "Have so far." "And how have you managed that?" "Well, the others trade with me. They need the money the extra shifts bring and don't seem to mind. Mom would worry if I did not come home, so it works out just fine." As Kathy disappeared into the other room, Joan knew she should reprimand her for being late. She knew she would have to do something about her trading every week end, and yet suddenly a pang of longing filled her. Why? What had come over her? Joan knew. It was a homesickness that filled her. She knew that it was brought on by the mention of Kathy's family. She also knew her longing was brought on by the way Kathy moved, the way she talked, with such youthfulness and assurance. Not the assurance that comes with learning and living... But the assurance that is born of youth and of the lack of learning. When Kathy slipped into her bed on the other side of the room, Joan thought of her first roommate and of the talk that went on far into the night most nights. Well, there would be none of that with them. Joan had found that rocmmates were not to be trusted. Once they became familiar with your secret inner thoughts, once you dared ask them questions like those Joan would like to ask Kathy right now. One's hopes and dreams were no longer one's own.... No, she would have to subdue her curiosity and observe. Still, before she could fall asleep, the question pierced her thoughts... Was Doctor Niles married? And what were the intentions behind Dr. Dean Desmond's teasing brown eyes? (To be continued) Another's Need Evelyn Fjeldsted It seemed to her she could not live; No one gave to her, she had naught to give. She could not live; there was no hope, With sordid life she could not cope. And then she saw another's need She had failed in word and deed. Herself effaced, she somehow knew, If there was time what she could do. The moon went down, the starlight paled— The sun came up—time had not failed. 338 Cyt Fam My Moker Sylvia Probst Young @ Yesterday, at the home of a friend, I admired a delicately beautiful figurine. "That," she said proudly, "is a gift from my mother. It was imported from Italy." On my way home I thought about the gifts my mother had given me. Materially I don't have much from her—two patchwork quilts she made for me when I was married, an old-fashioned treadle sewing machine, a glass cakestand, a pair of embroidered pillowcases, and a knitting sampler that she made some eighty years ago in a little Swiss school. These things came to me when she died, and moneywise they aren't worth very much. But Mother had left to me some priceless gifts that cannot be bought with money—a legacy for which I am deeply grateful. My mother taught me to love God's great out-of-doors — the wonder of the seasons, the miracle of a seed, the song of a brook, the return of a bird. Morning after summer morning we worked together in the garden. Her neat rows of vegetables, bordered by sweet peas and delphinium were admired by friends and neighbors near and far. And how often in the opal twilight we climbed our hill to watch night come softly over the valley. There was a cold winter morning when we walked across the crusted snow of the meadows to see how the frost had turned the creek and the willows into a regal fairyland. 339 MAY 1965 To mother, books were as essential as bread and butter. She wanted us to know good literature, and we early came to know the works of such writers as Wordsworth and Shakespeare, Longfellow and Lowell. When a traveling library came to our little town she would see that we borrowed some delightful books for our vacation reading. The Church magazines—The Children's Friend, The Juvenile Instructor, The Young Ladies' Journal, The Improvement Era, and The Relief Society Magazine were very carefully kept and at the end of the year we bound these precious volumes with the aid of a paper punch and some shoelaces. There was a special shelf in our clothes closet for these "bound volumes," and we read them over and over again. Mother had a deep appreciation for good music, and she helped us to gain a love for it. Whenever I think of our front room I remember the corner where the organ stood, and the young people who gathered around it to sing together. Some of us children were always practicing on that old pump organ, and Mother willingly did washings to pay for music lessons. My mother was deeply spiritual, her family and my father's had come to America for the gos- - pel, and to them it was the most precious thing in the world. We learned about the Lord very early, and we were taught the value and importance of prayer and faith, repentance and baptism, the paying of tithing and the Word of Wisdom. Our winter nights were spent around a wood-burning stove reading the gospel together. We took turns reading chapters from the Bible and The Book of Mormon. Together, we read the life of Christ from the New Testament, and Joseph Smith's Story. From the Old Testament, we read the stories of all the wonderful old prophets — Moses, Joseph, Samuel, Daniel, or sometimes, Mother told those stories. She loved to tell stories, and she was a wonderful storyteller. Through her teachings we learned the great value of spiritual blessings and gained a knowledge of the truth. These are some of the gifts my mother gave to me. Time cannot efface them nor can thieves break in and take them from me. These gifts are far more precious than rubies, and for them I shall be eternally grateful to the wonderful woman who was my mother. Mother's Day Patty Linn F. Tolley Sing me no anthems.... Bring no fragile flowers. Just put my small one in my arms And let me hold him. 340 The Fourth Commandme @ The old bell in the little church steeple tolled the half hour as Ellen Larkin kissed the youngest of her children and sent her on her way to Sunday School. Little Mary lingered in the doorway. "T wish that you would come to Sunday School with me today, Mama," she coaxed. "T would like to go with you, my darling," Ellen replied wist-| fully, "but you see I am not ready, and there is dinner to prepare, and Daddy likes it promptly at noon." Little Mary's eyes opened wide as she answered, "My Sunday School teacher said that we should never work on Sunday,,; because it is God's day. Today it is Mother's Day, and God's day, too. Oh, please come, Mama." The tears welled in Ellen's eyes. For some strange reason, they were always quite near the surface of late. She wanted so much to go with her baby, but Camilla Woodbury Judd 341 MAY 1965 there was that proverbial Sunday feast to prepare, a custom that the Larkin family had handed down from one generation to the next for many years. Ellen avoided Mary's eyes as she replied, "I really can't go with you today, sweetheart, now run along or you'll be late." A feeling of guilt engulfed her as she watched the disappointed child until she had turned the corner. Hot tears scalded Ellen's eyes. She could not shut out the vision of that eager, pleading face. "I should have left it all and gone with her," she accused herself. ''Mother's Day comes only once a year and God's day but once out. Of seven." With nervous fingers she dabbed at her eyes with the hem of her starched gingham apron and pinned a stiff lock of premature gray hair into place behind her ear. "I declare, it does keep a body busy; if I did get up at six to get them all fed and off on time. I must be growing old," she said to herself. Henry LarKIN had departed for Priesthood meeting a good half hour earlier, with an admonition to each child to hurry up and be on time. Punctuality, honesty, reliability, and order were a legacy that had also been handed down. He was faithful in his observance of the Sabbath and expected the same of his children. They must clean up in respect to the Lord and attend to all their Church duties. With Ellen it was different. She had, through the struggling years, made a willing slave of herself for Henry to whom she looked with a mixed feeling of awe, admiration, and love. Henry was a 342 husband to be proud of, intelligent, progressive, and active in Church and civic affairs. A good husband, warm and gentle deep down, but with little outward display of sentimentality. He was, in short, an English gentleman who firmly believed that, "A man's house is his castle," and his wife's whole ambition should be to make it a shining one. He had built her this home, patterned after the style of his homeland, with tall gabled roof and dormer windows. It was back in the lot. The long driveway was fenced in by well-kept hedges and grapevine arbors. The house was Ellen's pride and joy; no smudge or spot of dust escaped her eye. No outside interest was of more importance than her housework. Over the years it had become a habit she could not break, and Henry had long since ceased to urge her to change her ways. Alone with her thoughts, she sat down to eat her breakfast as she planned the morning's work. First, the two chickens must be stuffed and be put into the oven to bake, and the dried corn to steam in the double boiler. Then she would make the marble cake that Bennie had ordered and the cream-coconut pies which were always expected. The rest could wait until she had done up the morning work. Noon found Mother Larkin's Sunday feast steaming on the kitchen range, when little Mary fluttered in, bubbling with excitement and thrust into her mother's hand a small booklet of verse. "Oh, Mama,. Why didn't you ceme?" she cried. "All the chil- | dren gave a pretty flower to their mothers, and you weren't there. Marjory London's mother looked so pretty. Her hair was marcelled and she wore a new silk dress and hat and everything." Mary's rehearsal ended in a sob, and Ellen clasped the unhappy child to her breast, whispering feeble words of comfort. But the child would not be comforted. "Marjory said that she had the prettiest mother of all, and I told her that my mother is the very prettiest in the whole world, if she just had her hair curled and was wearing pretty clothes." Henry Larkin looked up very quickly from his place at the head of the table, where he was impatiently waiting for the family to take their places. Ellen felt his critical scrutiny, while she hastened to pin the unruly lock of stiff gray hair behind her ear. "Your mother's wish to stay at home is her privilege, Mary, and, as to clothes, she would not wear them if she had them." Ellen gripped the huge platter of golden browned chicken she was carrying while the color fled from her overheated face. Henry turned abruptly toward her, ""My dear wife, can't we have dinner on time?" EL. En dashed into the kitchen to hide the hurt that was stabbing her heart and blinding her eyes, and as she served the meal, the words, 'On time, on time, on time," raced through her brain. For thirty years, she had lived by the clock, and now a sudden rebellion seethed within her. Silently she moved from the hot kitchen stove to the long dining table, elegant in shining linen, her THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT best china and silverware for this special day; until the whole sumptuous banquet, from tomato bouillon to melting cream pies, was spread before the smiling eyes of Henry Larkin. After the blessing had been said on the food, Ellen, too tired to eat, made her way to her room where she sank into the little rocker beside her work table. Adjusting her glasses, she picked up the worn family Bible and turned its pages to the Ten Commandments. Running her finger down the list until she came to the fourth, she read: Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: But the seventh day is the sabbath of the Lord thy God: init thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it. Mother Larkin read it over and over again: "Thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates."' Surely she was not reading right. She cleaned her tear-blurred bifocals and read it again. Yes, she was right, there was no mention made of "Thy wife." All were specifically mentioned except her. The punishment of Mother Eve, no doubt, for disobedience in partaking of the forbidden fruit. Ellen closed the book and put it back in its place. She felt beaten, cheated somehow, for down deep in her rebellious heart she 343 MAY 1965 had hoped to find encouragement to ease up on the Sunday job. Unless, the thought struck her, she could be counted as "thy maidservant," for had she not been a servant in this house, caring for their needs, coming at their beck and call? Henry and her sons, all six of them, had accepted her servitude as they had accepted the rising and setting of the sun. Had not Bennie ordered the marble cake, and hadn't they all rushed off without bringing her a stick of wood or a bucket of coal and... Mother Larkin came to herself with a start. Why, what kind of husbands would they make? Was she herself rearing six sons to be inconsiderate, to bring hardship upon the wives that they would someday marry? What a blind, miserable failure she had been, after all, and Ellen broke into sobs—sobs that shook and awakened her soul. Fumbling in her apron pocket for her handkerchief, her fingers touched the booklet of Mother Poems, and there on the front page were the words: Dear Mother, We cordially invite you to attend our Mother's Day program this evening at 6: P. M. To be given in the ward chapel by the members of the Aaronic Priesthood. Sincerely your servants, Ward Bishopric A sudden warmth crept into Ellen's heart. Somehow the word, "servant," didn't have a_ bad connotation at all. The Aaronic Priesthood—why, that took in two of her boys. Strange they had not mentioned it. But then, she reflected, she had not had 344 time to enter into their activities. She had been too busy and too absorbed in keeping the windows of Henry's castle shining to listen to their chatter. But she would go to their program. She would show them that she loved them and appreciated their efforts and their concern. She took down her old pongee dress from its hanger. She hadn't worn it since George had graduated from Junior High. It was a bit old-fashioned, but would do with a good pressing. The pink satin housecoat hanging beside it, which they had all given her a year ago, along with the bedroom slippers to match, were still unworn. She had found no time to relax in a delicate, pink robe. Those things were for pampered women of leisure. And then she saw it— the long box, tied up with bright blue ribbon lying on the bed and the card which read—'"To Mother, with all our love." Ellen almost fainted. Then she dropped down on the bed beside the box and wept over its contents. Father was justly right, "She wouldn't wear them if she had them." She was to blame, after all. They had grown used to her excuses for staying home. Self-accusations welled up inside her as she solemnly resolved to change her ways. MiooruHer Larkin tingled with a strange excitement as she stood before her mirror. The stiff unmanageable locks lay in soft curls around her temples. Her eyes, blue as the new dress that Henry had bought her, were bright with expectancy as she adjusted her new hat at a smart angle, pulled on the white gloves and tucked the lace handkerchief into her shiny new handbag. The chapel was nearly filled when, with little Mary joyfully holding her hand, she slid silently into a back seat. The stand was beautifully decorated and seats of honor were arranged under a banner inscribed, "Our Mothers." Young men were escorting their mothers to the seats of honor. The seats were. Almost filled now, and a young man was standing behind the pulpit. She couldn't see his face clearly for a vase of flowers, but he resembled her Paul. Ellen's heart beat fast, and she felt smothery. Of course she didn't count, it was for those who did count, it was for those who went to church regularly, the faithful ones. The young man was still standing there staring into the audience. Was it stage fright or was he looking for someone? Suddenly he stepped forward. It was Paul, her Paul so tall and handsome. He was smiling and coming straight toward her. "Oh, Mother, I'm glad," he whispered and proudly led her to a seat of honor. THE FOURTH COMMANDMENT Ellen felt like a queen as she listened to the eulogies of love and devotion, praise and admiration bestowed upon the mothers of men. Tributes to their careworn hands, their understanding and forgiving hearts; their courage and love that led them into the valley of the shadows; all their faith and suffering that triumphed over death. She forgot her weaknesses in the fragrance of the yellow camation pinned on her breast, and the words of the bishop, "I am very pleased that Mother's Day comes on the Sabbath. The Sabbath is made for our spiritual uplifting. Let our bodies rest, that we may keep the laws of the God of nature, for he organized our bodies and he knows what they can endure. I think God made the Sabbath Day for tired mothers." Mother Larkin heard no more. Her eyes sought and met Henry's where he sat on the third row. Again she saw the old ardor of pride and tenderness in his eyes as he smiled at her. Then suddenly, the floodgates of her soul gave way and tears of happiness fell unheeded on her idle hands. A Mother-in-Law Speaks Christine Stacey | hav2 daughters-in-law and sons-in-law, | love them, they're near to my heart. | am happy each day that they're with us to stay, And now of our family a part. If | had my say in matters of state, | would hold to one thought as my aim; | would curtail a phrase, and quickly erase That caption "in law' from the name. 345 Relief Society Compassion m@ "'"'... With the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour in oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice."' These prophetic words were written of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith one week after he began the organization on March 17, 1842. In the 123 years since that time, these words have embodied a high purpose and directed daily actions of Relief Society members. Today in 1965, members everywhere are helping to fulfill this prophecy. How often do strangers who move into a community find a welcome expressed by a hot meal, an invitation, or some other service. How many wounded hearts are soothed and comforted by the sweet friendships and understanding hearts of their Relief Society sisters. In the days of Nauvoo and later, the Relief Society presidents would direct the loving care of orphans and see they were absorbed into families, when children were orphaned by sea and land voyages, or when parents succumbed to illnesses which swept the pioneer settlements. In today's world this aspect has changed. Relief Society now provides care for children whose mothers may be in the hospital ill, or mothers of new babies. When death of any member of a family occurs, the president provides both needed service and comforts the widow's heart, or other bereaved members. By careful and prayerful planning a president will involve the great majority of ward or branch sisters to provide extensive services which in her judgment are proper, whereby the great blessings of service are shared by many. Often the president makes the visiting teachers responsible for the first watchcare until such time as the president directs in particular instances. The statistical records of Relief Society compassionate services increase very substantially each year, but the statistics account for but a percentage of the service given by Relief Society. Just certain aspects of care at the time of death are recorded, just bedside nursing service, not other help given, such as in recruiting volunteers to aid in hospitals. The ''Other Compassionate Services'' recorded do not include all additional services, nor specialized services given to some youth. Only the Lord knows the extent of the services given by Relief Society as outlined by the Prophet Joseph Smith and endorsed by the prophet today. Volume 52 April 1965 Number 4 e Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer EDITORIAL Young married members of Relief Societies in college organizations are to be commended for the loving watchcare they give to one another. As directed by presidents, themselves the mothers of small children, they alleviate the needs of the sisters, be it deprivation, illness, or death. The spirit of oneness and service is outstanding. In Relief Societies everywhere the visits of the younger sisters to the older sisters are appreciated. The guidance and wisdom of the older sisters enrich the understanding of the younger sisters who bring freshness, enthusiasm, and helpful service to the elderly. To appreciate the compassionate services of Relief Society it is salutary to be placed in a situation where one is on the receiving end. In one of the Relief Society lessons on ''Teaching the Gospel in the Home,"' it suggests that a woman make a list of her week's activities in which she consciously plans the compassionate services she may give. Of course, one's first duty is to one's own, and then to perform compassionate services as called upon by Relief Society is of second concern. But beyond that, what satisfaction may a woman experience as she is schooled in the motto of Relief Society ''Charity Never Faileth."' More than the loaf of bread, the soup, the casserole, much as they are _ appreciated in a time of incapacity, is the experiencing of the attitude of loving service of a Relief Society sister. The Prophet Joseph Smith commanded Relief Society women to enlarge their souls toward each other. Relief Society is the teachertrainer of the adult womanhood of the Church in assisting her to integrate in her soul the love for mankind which motivated the action of the Good Samaritan, whom the Savior described for everyone to emulate. After a woman has moved beyond the direct tutelage of her mother, the compassion in her soul grows and expands through the divine Relief Society. President McKay tells us ''Next to motherhood and teaching, woman attains her highest glory in the realm of compassionate service... | hope | am not—will not be considered as boasting when | say that the most beautiful and, undoubtedly, the most efficient organization in the realm of service is the Relief Society of the Church" (''Three Realms in Which Woman's Influence Should Ever Be Paramount,'' The Relief Society Magazine, December 1958, pp. 792-93). —M. C. S. Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Mary R. Young lrene C. Lloyd Darlene C. Dedekind Leone G. Layton Mary V. Cameron Hazel S. Love Cleone R. Eccles Blanche B. Stoddard Afton W. Hunt Fawn H. Sharp Edythe K. Watson Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Watch Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith 347 Sylvia Porter, United States' shrewd giver of financial information and advice in her syndicated column ''Your Money's Worth,'' has been touring abroad. She feels that the women of Finland are noteworthy in their level of literacy and education. Women account for: 93 per cent of all Finnish pharmacists; 76 per cent of dentists; 65 per cent of all elementary and 56 per cent of all high school teachers; 30 per cent of all architects; 23 per cent of journalists; 25 per cent of all economists; 13.5 per cent representation in Parliament; 32 per cent representation in Helsinki's municipal council. Women represent 53 per cent of Finland's working force. Jill Kinmont, former champion slalom skier, who, when eighteen, fell while skiing on the slopes of Alta, Utah, and crushed a neck vertebra that left her unable to move, control, or feel anything below her shoulders, began to think hard about ''what you can do with what you have." She has finished college and is now an extraordinarily talented school teacher, in a wheel chair. Cheerful, sympathetic, with an unfailing sense of humor, she captures her students' interest, sympathy, and good will immediately. Her parents and brothers are most cooperative and helpful. Jill's courage is magnificent. Elizabeth Longford has received much commendation for her scholarly and entertaining biography of Queen Victoria: Born to Suceed (Harper and Row Publishers). A reviewer most generous in her praise of this biography is Aileen Ward, author of John Keats: The Making of a Poet, for which she received the 1964 National Book Award. 348 Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Charming Alicia Markova, created Dame Alicia Markova by Queen Elizabeth II, is now the choreographer for the Metropolitan Opera, with thirtysix ballet dancers in her charge, under contract twelve months a year. Born in London, she made her debut on the London stage at the age of ten and was hailed ''a miniature Pavlova.'' She is considered the greatest "Giselle'' in ballet history. She has recently been on her second tour of the United States, lecturing on ballet. She feels that the grants given by the Ford Foundation to choreographers and dancers will greatly increase the art of ballet in America. Josephine Johnson has selected her best short stories ranging ''from comic fantasy through vivid realism to dark, mysterious tragedy—and creating always a unique and powerful enchantment' to quote the New York Times Book Review. Miss Johnson won the Pulitzer Prize for her novel, Now in November, and much critical acclaim for her latest novel The Dark Traveler. Helen Savitsky, a research geneticist employed by the United States Department of Agriculture, with a specific assignment to the sugar beet industry, has cooperated with her husband, Dr. V. F. Savitsky, in developing monogerm beet seed. This type of seed has proved to be of inestimable value over the old multigerm type which produced several plants very close together, and thus required difficult and expensive thinning procedures. Through this useful and significant research and her many other contributions to scientific beet growing, Helen Savitsky has achieved the reputation of being '"'unsurpassed in her cytological work on the sugar beet." Abide With Me Lenora Hansen WAll night the ticking of the cheap alarm clock had hammered Karen Arden with its endless metronome. There had been a time when it seemed to beat the echo of her peace. That was when she lay close beside Jim in the darkness, with the room empty of any sound except the alarm clock's strident voice and Jim's soft breathing. Now Jim Arden's bed was on a rocky, lonesome hill, where they had buried him, seven months ago, when the truck which he was driving had gone over Copper Bluff. Now the clock ticked on and on—part of Karen's yearning and her emptiness. Karen wanted to go home. She wanted to take her two children and go back to her own town and her own people. She wanted to sit at her mother's table and bite her teeth into the crusty edge of bread, hot from her mother's oven, to feel the soft warm center on her palate and to smell the buttered saltiness. She wanted to hear her father's voice again talking to the Lord in family prayer, telling him that this family wanted to serve him, if he would just forgive -their weaknesses and keep on showing them the way to go. But Karen could not go home. She couldn't even feed her children here. If only she could find some way.... She sighed and, turning back the covers, slid her long legs over the edge of the bed, sitting up. 349 MAY 1965 She felt with her feet for her slippers and reached for her robe, where it had slid from the foot of the bed onto the floor. She checked to see if Susie was still covered. The three-year-old stirred a little, but slept on. She leaned across the railing of the crib and touched her baby, caressing the cowlick that swirled left, up from his forehead, exactly as his father's had done. He carried his father's name—Jim. She sashed the robe tightly around and felt for a brush, using it on her short, dark hair without turning on a light. As she passed the hall closet, she reached in and drew out a blanket. In the other room she pushed back the curtains so that she could see into the night, draped the blanket across her shoulders and sat down in Jim's big chair, drawing her knees up close and wrapping the blanket around them. She prepared to lay out, again, the problem before her. Karen Arden was twenty-seven. She was tall and slender, with a half-hesitant grace of motion. Her eyes were large. Her mouth had a soft look, with a little tilt up at the corners as though a smile were just about to come. Her teeth were even, her complexion clear. She had an easy and listening manner with people. These were what Bob Evans was offering to pay her for—her good looks and her easy listening manner—to serve drinks at his club outside of town—to sit at the tables and listen to his special guests. What did she do if the guests became importunate? What. If the gingerale, that Bob promised 350 she would be served, no longer tasted strong enough? The pay that he offered was good. She could hire a woman to take care of the children. This was November. Jim had died in April. The hospital and the burial had taken their little insurance. She had gone home for two weeks after the funeral, to visit with her parents, to postpone being alone and to look for work. There was no work. Her father had asked her to stay on, but she had been quite firm. His heart was bad and he had sold most of the farm. They managed, he and her mother, but there wasn't money to support three more. So she had come back here, where she and Jim had lived last. She and the children had moved into a smaller place and the finance company had picked up the car. She had taken a job in the Canyon Cafe and arranged with a Navajo girl to take care of the children. But the girl went back to the reservation, suddenly, and she had had to stop work. She worked for one week in Anna's Dress Shop. When she cashed her pay check and paid the woman who did baby sitting she had $4.85 left. She had inquired at the bank and at the local business offices. They had all been sorry, but they were all fully staffed. They had written down her name. Karen had advertised for sewing. She had ironed clothes and she had tended children in her home. But the money would not stretch. They really did eat, of course, but the children's clothes had grown too small and Karen didn't know where to get more. Her own clothes were shabby. They all needed shoes. The rent was a few days later every month. A light bill and a water bill lay on her dresser, unpaid. A tight knot of desperation was growing in her stomach. She had to find some better way—and quickly. Was Bob Evans' offer the answer? Karen sat, pondering and troubled, until the sky began to grow light. Finally she stood up, folded the blanket and then wrapped it around her like a shawl, and, going to the front door, stepped out to see if the fresh day held any promise. She did not notice, as she usually did, where the screen had pulled loose from the door. She didn't see the broken adobe fence, nor the pile of tumbleweeds against the vacant house across the street. Her eyes looked on, beyond, where the trees stood, bare limbed, against a red-cloud sky. A wind blew, sharp against her face. A bird flew down across the fire clouds. She turned back into the house, a little healed. It was the Sabbath Day. When Jim was with her, they used to feed the babies early and drive fifty miles over to Beecroft where there was a Mormon Sunday School. Afterward, they would eat hamburgers at the drive-in, and both the children would go to sleep on the way home. Now Sunday was spent without any Church service. As Karen dressed Susie and the baby in their play clothes, she thought of Sunday morning when she was a child. When she was eight, she had had a lavender check dress with a white organdy collar. She reABIDE WITH ME membered the dress as part of a tingling clean and shiny feeling. Outside the sun was warm; inside the organ played. Her father sat up on the stand, and when she caught his eye, he smiled at her. What would happen if she called up the branch president in Beecroft, and said, "President Rogers, I'm not a member of your branch, but I belong to the Church and I need help!" What would happen if she called Bob Evans and said, "I've been thinking about that job you offered me, at the club. Drive me over to Beecroft, to my Church tonight, and, maybe, after that I can give you my answer." What if she called Alice Hunt. The Hunts were Mormons. They had no children, so instead of trying to make Sunday School, they drove to Beecroft for sacrament meeting in the evening. Several times, after Jim's death, they had asked Karen to go with them, but the babies were awfully little to be out so late. She had declined. But now she could call Alice! As they got out of the Hunt car in Beecroft that evening, the sky was clouded over and the wind whipped up a blinding dust. The wind tore at Karen's dress and at the baby's blanket. Dust filled her eyes and its taste was in her mouth. Susie clung to her mother's skirts and cried. Just before they reached the chapel door the first great drops of rain came down, gathering the dust as they descended, and spattering it in round mud splats on Karen's shoulders and Susie's dress. Tears came to Karen's eyes. Even the rain came differently 351 MAY 1965 here! She remembered how rain came at home—clean summer rain. You could see it approaching from the east, like a misty curtain, foot by foot across green fields. Now, in November, there would be snow. She stopped a moment in the hall to wipe the tears from Susie's face with her handkerchief and kept one hand free to guide the little girl. The meeting had already commenced. The Hunts and the Ardens walked in quietly and sat down at the back. President Rogers wasn't there. The man they called "President Harmon" was a_ stranger to Karen. The baby slept. Susie put her feet up on the bench and down again. She turned around to chatter at the usher, standing by the door. She dropped her mother's handkerchief on the floor and squeaked across the bench as she slid off to pick it up. But the ride and the crying had left her tired and she soon leaned over on Karen and closed her eyes. As Karen took the sacrament her heart cried, "Why? Oh, Father, why?" Again she longed to be home where she could meet in worship every Sunday. Then her thoughts turned in upon herself and the meeting began floating past her. It was when the choir began the closing hymn that the words suddenly spoke in her thoughts: "Abide with me, 'tis eventide, and lone will be the night, if I cannot commune with Thee and find, in Thee, my light...." Tears filled Karen's eyes and spilled down her cheeks and onto her dress. 352 "Father," she prayed, closing her eyes. "Father, let me go home!" Then she modified her prayer. "Or at least, please, Father, let me find work to take care of my children." A peace came over her, and the song seemed sweet with comfort as she prayed with the singers: "Oh, Savior, stay this night with me. Behold, 'tis eventide!" Sue asked the Hunts to stop at a pay telephone before they reached her home—she had an urgent call to make. In the booth, she dropped her dime into the slot, dialed the club and asked for Mr. Evans. She thanked him for his offer, but she said she couldn't take the job. She did need the money, but the teachings of her Church were strong against those things. No, she didn't know what she would do. She must trust that something would turn up. That night as she knelt by her bed she told the Father, again, that he knew how much she longed to go home, but that all things were in his hands. Please, would he strengthen her faith and help her to find work. Monday and Tuesday nothing happened, and she could think of nothing to do to help. Wednesday morning, as soon as her housework was done,. She borrowed from the food money to hire a baby sitter and went out to make the rounds of the town businesses again—the bank, law offices, two little mills, the courthouse. Everywhere she met with the same answer. There were no vacancies. If something should turn up; they would get in touch with her. Finally she turned, weary, to- ward her own house. Her shoulders sagged; her feet were heavy. She paid and dismissed the baby sitter, stepped out of her shoes and slumped down into the big chair. There she sat—deep, deep down inside, tired—looking at nothing. The baby cried; she didn't go to him. Susie tugged, begging at her knees, but she paid no heed. Hours later, as it was growing dark, she moved. Karen gathered up the baby, bathed and fed him and put him into bed. She took her daughter on her lap and washed the little face and gave her food and kissed her as she tucked her in. Through all of this, she didn't speak; she didn't smile. A great weariness of spirit held her. She had locked the door, pulled off her own clothes and started to lie down, when she remembered the letters. She had taken two letters out of the post office just before noon and put them both in her bag, hurrying on to reach the bank before the manager went out to lunch. She got her robe out of the closet, found her bag, and took the letters out to read them. The first letter was signed by William J. Hendrix, manager of the bank in Preston, a small town about ABIDE WITH ME eight miles from where her parents lived. The letter read: Dear Mrs. Arden: One of our cashiers is leaving to be married in three weeks. I talked with your father, when he was in this afternoon, and he thought perhaps you might be interested in the work. The starting salary is $200 a month. If you would like the position, please let us: know immediately. — The other letter was from her mother. A check fell out as she unfolded: it. Halfway down the page it read: Bill Porter is driving back and forth to work in Preston every day. He says that, if you take the bank job, you can ride with him. You remember I wrote to you that Bill's wife died a few weeks after your Susie was born? His boy, Melvin, is six. I take care of the boy when he is not in school, until his father gets here. Your father is sending a check. He thinks that you might need the money to get home. The bank must have your answer as soon as possible. Be sure to let us know what you decide. Karen knelt down by her bed, the quick tears and the gratitude poured out together. Joyously she laid her hand against baby Jim's soft cheek. Carefully she slipped underneath the covers close to little Susie. The tiredness fell away into oblivion as Karen slept. Burdens Catherine B. Bowles if aches and pains could be measured They would reach around the earth. If they were put upon a golden scale They would weigh more than they are worth. With patience, skill, and loving care Burdens are lifted through faith and prayer. 353 354 Courtesy American Dairy Association Old-Fashioned Ruth G. Rothe Some people call me old-fashioned To bake bread the way | do, But one thing | have noticed Is that they're old fashioned, too; For just like folks ages ago, They like a slice—or three, Spread with rich old-fashioned jam, Also made by me. 7. Ae em i ee ee J " o —*. Ser io Te a8 i) g FLAPS wT Lee MEE te OF OF Mary A. Lovett Brisbane, Queensland, Australia CHOCOLATE SPONGE CAKE 4 eggs 2 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Sugar 14 c. Boiling water 1 c. And 1 tsp. Plain flour 2 tsp. Butter 144 tsp. Baking powder Have all ingredients at room temperature. Separate eggs and beat whites until thick. Add egg yolks and mix evenly through. Gradually add sugar and beat until thick and creamy. Fold in sifted dry ingredients, then add boiling water in which butter is melted. Pour into two greased 8-inch tins or other appropriate pans. Bake in moderate oven 20-25 minutes. Cool and fill with fresh cream or cream filling. Ice with chocolate icing. SUNSHINE TARTLETS Pastry 6 ozs. Plain flour 1 tbsp. Castor (fine) sugar 14 tsp. Baking powder 1 egg yolk pinch salt 2 tbsp. Water 3 ozs. Butter 1 tsp. Lemon juice Sift flour, baking powder, and salt. Add butter and rub it in with fingertips until mixture resembles coarse bread crumbs. Add sugar and mix well. Add egg yolk, water, and lemon juice and mix to a firm dough. Roll out and cut 12 rounds to fit small cake tins (muffin pans). Fill with a spoonful of fruit mince (mincemeat) and top with coconut meringue topping. Topping 1 c. Coconut 1 egg, plus the egg white left over from 2 Cc. Sugar the pastry, well beaten tsp. Baking powder Mix all ingredients and spoon onto fruit mince (mincemeat). Bake in moderate oven for about 30 minutes. This recipe may be made as one large tart (pie). FAMILY HOME EVENING SPECIAL CASSEROLE Ida Isaacson Cook 1 package frozen green lima beans, as directed on the package. (Fresh green lima beans may be substituted.) Drain off the juice and drink it. (Don't throw it away.) Then add 1% c. Of corn (kernel or creamed) to the hot, cooked limas, return to the stove and cook 1 minute. Open a can of creamed mushroom soup (do not dilute soup)—- heat 4% can of soup in separate pan. Put hot beans and corn in a casserole dish. Pour hot, steaming mushroom soup (undiluted) over hot beans and corn and sprinkle a dash or two of cumin over the whole. Brown in 370° oven. 355 Adelle Ashby ™ Some of the new styles for the little miss leave the dresses without pockets. This presents a problem when she is sent to school. One suggestion is to make three or four pockets that can be added to her different dresses. Add-on pockets are portable, and are slipped onto her belt. They look pretty on most any style, be it a dress or a skirt (figure 1). If the dress or skirt does not have a belt, just stitch three snaps on the back of the pocket, and three snaps to correspond someplace on the dress. If you make several different colored pockets, they can mix with or match her clothes, and she will always _ able to have her milk money or hankie handy. The slip-on pocket has three little loops stitched to the back. FABRIC TO CHOOSE The pocket takes so little material that you can use pieces left over from other sewing projects. A piece of organdy goes well with the daintier dresses, a bit of heavy denim will go with heavy skirts, or some corduroy will team up with jumper dresses. To add a bright note to an otherwise plain dress, try making the add-on pocket of gay plaid or polka dots. Or make a pocket of bright striped corduroy to go with all of her corduroy skirts and jumpers. 356 back cut two vase figure 1 bias tape loops figure 4 CUT FROM DIAGRAM You will need to cut two pocket backs (figure 2) so that the pocket will be sturdy. Then cut the pocket front making it two inches wider than the back. If you are going to use a ruffle or other wide trim, you will need to allow for this in the cutting of the pocket front, and make it smaller than suggested in the diagram, because the completed pocket front should be the same size as the back when finished (figure 3). Be sure to use your pinking shears when cutting organdy or taffeta, to prevent unraveling. SEW BACK FIRST First, sew the two pocket backs together, being sure to put the right sides together. Sew them along the top and sides only, leaving the bottom free to turn. Now turn and press. Stitch three little bias tape loops securely near the top of the pocket back through which the dress belt may be slipped. Before sewing the pocket front to the back, you will need to stitch on the trim. You may want a little ruffle, or some rickrack, or bias binding. If the pocket is being made of plain material, you may want to embroider a kitten, a flower, or perhaps, the child's name or her initial (figure 4). 357 Gather in the fullness of the pocket front and stitch across the gather line on the machine. If you have a ruffle, you will want to gather along just under the ruffle (figure 5). If you have a bias binding, you will want to gather in the fullness at the top of the pocket and then bind it (figure 6). Now baste the pocket front to the pocket back along the sides and across the bottom. Be sure that the right side of the pocket front is placed by the side of the pocket on which the tabs are sewed. Now machine stitch all along the sides and bottom and turn. 4 f alk? Maude Rubin Its old log cabin pattern like a book Tells of another era, a homespun day, Each narrow strip a chapter, a flashback look At a time of nothing-wasted-or-thrown-away. Grandmother's fingers sewed these woolen strips Of somber gray and black, teal-blue and brown, Let her silver-flashing needle make back trips To double-stitch the seams. Yet she laid work down To search for brighter colors, to intersperse Their jewel-tints among these quiet tones Till, like a brief and singing bit of verse — Bright as an autumn leaf among gray stones — Is this strip of turkey-red, this square of yellow, This home-dyed green as bright as a rain-washed willow! 358 figure 5 figure 6 ( <> Dorothy Dean Yancey, Blackfoot, Idaho, served as quilting chairman for the Blackfoot Fourth Ward for ten years. Devoted and encouraging in her leadership, she has helped to develop many expert quilters. She also makes rugs, dolls, pillows, pillowcases, needlecraft pictures, and afghans. Mrs. Yancey has served as ward organist and has been a visiting teacher for more than fifty years. She is the mother of seventeen children, fifteen of them living, and has fifty-seven grandchildren and thirty-seven great-grandchildren. Florence Wells Dudley, Charlottesville, Virginia, has been making quilts and numerous other handicraft articles for Relief Society ever since the branch was organized in 1944. She was first counselor to the first branch Relief Society president, and has served for many years as a visiting teacher. Her quilts are unique in design and exquisite in workmanship. Mrs. Dudley has nine children, twenty-seven grandchildren and fourteen great-grandchildren. At eighty-three years of age, she is busy, happy, and useful. ws Pe tees er sities y = a a5 J ere /? A 3 ae f \ ren} ale? M@ "I won't be able to wear it, Mum—the bodice is ruined!" Celia held up the dress for her mother's inspection, her usually bright face clouded with dismay. "Who would have thought that a splash of orangeade would leave such a stubborn stain?" "Couldn't you wear your green frock tomorrow?" Mrs. Roberts asked, soothingly. "None of your friends will be at the dance. No one would recognize it." Celia sat down at the breakfast table, and dug, impatiently, into the grapefruit before her. 'Oh, Mum! It is positively dated. Brian wouldn't think much of me in that." "T don't think a lot of him, if that is the impression he gives his girl friends." Jeff slipped into the chair beside his sister, comparing his watch with the kitchen clock. Me Nita Ellis Penarth, Glamorgan, South Wales "That green thing's nice. It suits you." »Celia's blue eyes grew mutinous, and her mother interposed quickly. 'Give a call to Bob, dear. He'll be late for school." Celia's uncertain temper was never far below the surface, she thought. But she was a redhead, like her father, with his loving but fiery disposition. Only persistent and prayerful effort would enable her to control it. In time, she would succeed, just as David had. She was glad that he had gone off early this morning. He disliked to hear the children bickering, and it was important that he should not be worried today. If this deal didn't go through.... She tried to shake off the sudden despondency, remembering all the unexpected expenses; the need for a new motor scythe, and the re- 361 MAY 1965 pair bill for the station wagon, the strain on David's face, after an evening spent in worried calculations. There were bills that must be settled by the end of the month, and it was the 20th, already. The 20th! The hand slicing bread tensed and stopped. Unseeingly, she stared through the window at the lovely, sunlit garden. It was their wedding anniversary. And they had both forgotten all about it! "Mum—remember that pattern I bought last week? It's so simple that if you didn't mind slipping out to buy that blue silk I showed you in Cooper's window, you could make a frock by tomorrow." Celia spoke pleadingly, one slim hand on the doorknob. 'You know how quick you are!" "And you know how busy she is," countered young Bob, munching steadily through his bowl of cereal. "You ought to make your own dress, Cil."' JEFF laughed. "You might as well ask her to cook her own meals." "Boys — boys!"' Mrs. Roberts prayed for the inward peace so necessary to manage this temperamental family of hers. 'Be fair to your sister. She works hard in the garden, and does her share when it comes to redecorating." "But those are men's jobs." Jeff sounded quite concerned. "Flow will she manage, when she marries?" This time Celia could not restrain her annoyance. "No wonder Lucy had a quarrel with you. She's better off, if you ask me." "T didn't ask you!" Jeff's reply was ominously quiet. 362 They were at it again. Mrs. Roberts ran a hand over her forehead. 'Celia, you'll miss your train. If I get that material and make the frock, you'll have to pay for it."" Celia had been overspending since she had become friendly with Brian. If only she could come to realize that Philip, her old boy friend, was the one for her. He had such a steadying influence, and Celia needed someone like that. "Bless you, Mummy dear—and thanks." Temper was forgotten as quickly as it had arisen. "I'll pay you back—with interest." She waved a grateful hand. "Bye now!" Then she was gone—a whirl of navy skirt, lemon sweater, and bronze fall of bobbing hair, with a crimson and orange daubed canvas beneath one arm. "You know what?" asked Bob, eating egg and bacon with enthusiasm, "Cil will end up as one of those artists who live in a garret, with a candle and no food." "Not on your life!" Jeff stood up, a tall, dark boy, with an attractive smile. '"'She's got enough sense to stay at home and let Mum look after her." He looked tired. He had been brooding about that break with Lucy. A pity! She was a sweet girl. Mrs. Roberts inspected her firstborn with the wistful glance of a mother, who, powerless to help, has to watch her dear ones suffering the hurts of adolescence. 'How about asking Pete over for the week end?" she suggested. "M-mm. [ll ring him." She brushed his jacket, wishing he wasn't so uncommunicative. "Thanks, Mum." He gave her his slow, sweet smile as he left for work. Now, only Bob remained to be seen off. He had always been the easiest of the three. "Mitzi should have her pups any time, now," he remarked, stuffing books into his satchel. "IT wonder how many she'll have?" his mother replied absently, holding out his blazer. "Bob—your arms are too long for the sleeves." "T'll need a new one, if they make me a prefect. The list'll be read out today." She hugged him. "If they do, I'll bake a cake, a special 'prefect' one. Daddy and I can share it. We've been married twenty years today." "Twenty years!" Bob's exclamation held a touch of awe. "Wow!"' Then he, too, was gone, and she was left with a pile of washing-up. Sue worked deftly, restoring gleaming order to her big, whitepainted kitchen, with its shining brasses, fragrant potted plants and colorful rugs—the heart of the house, this room, a place for creation and living. Here the family ate together, talked together, prayed together. Here, in the sunny window alcove, she had spent patient hours trying to teach Celia to sew. The girl disliked it as much as she disliked cooking. But she showed so much talent in other skills that her mother had given up the instruction. She had worried about it, but David had laughed at her. "You do too much for the children. Leave them to find their own way THE ANNIVERSARY —make their mistakes. Learn quicker that way." Dear Dave! He would be so self-reproachful at the thought of forgetting their anniversary. But with so many things going wrong, and working as hard as two men on the small, mixed farm, it was little wonder that even such a special date should have eluded him. If he managed to secure that large order from the city firm, it would boost his morale, quite apart from straightening out their financial tangles. Maybe they would be able to manage new covers for the living room. The old ones had been washed and mended so often that they depressed her. She whisked around the bedrooms, thinking she must hurry now—shopping this morning— the frock this afternoon. A batch of cooking and more frock in the evening. So much for a wedding anniversary! It was just as she finished cutting out the dress that the phone rang. It was her' husband. "Dave!" she said conscious of the thrill of pleasure, which, even after all these years, always ran through her when she heard his voice. "'You've got that order—I just know you have!" "Right the first time, pet." He sounded himself again, free from the anxiety that had been fretting him. "And that's not all. Have you remembered what I've remembered?" They'll Sue laughed softly, wishing she could see his face. "Of course. I'm going to make a cake." "Not at the moment, my lovely Jean. We're going to spend 363 MAY 1965 some money on ourselves—just you and me." His tone was wheedling, reminding her of Celia, but with David's, there was an underlying note of authority. "Listen carefully, Jean. Not coming home tonight." "Dave!" She was aghast. He chuckled. ''That's just the way I wanted you to say it. Proves-you still love me!" '"'Dave—you're not serious." "O. K. You can enlarge on that, later, surrounded by luxury. I've a surprise for you. You're coming to town by the 5:30 train. I'll meet you at the station. I've booked a room for two nights at a hotel." "How wonderful. But....' "T haven't finished. I've taken seats for the ballet this evening and a play for tomorrow." With obvious enjoyment, he ended with "How about that, eh?' "T can't believe it, Dave." She was at a loss for words. He had fixed everything. However was she going to explain that she was overwhelmed with work at home? "Tt'll do the children good to look after things for a week end. You wait on them far too much." She was thinking rapidly. Husband or children. Who should come first? Celia's frock—cooking —prefect cake—Pete staying for the week end—and Mitzi's pups. Celia couldn't cook and Celia couldn't sew. None of them knew a thing about midwifery. "Darling!"' David's voice came with a note of acute disappointment. '"You're not trying to think up an excuse, are you? Not on our anniversary." There were sudden tears in Jean's eyes. ''No," she said. "I'm just overcome. Nothing in the I'm ' 364 _do them yourself." world will stop me from coming." OF course Dave came first. She had loved him for a long time before she knew the children. She looked at the clock. Just two hours left for everything. Clothes? She had the new dress bought a few weeks before for a niece's wedding, and her suit was just back from the cleaners. The cream hat would match nicely, with a ribbon band, instead of the veiling. She had all she needed. What a relief! She rang up to order a taxi and food from three local shops. Pete's appetite was as big as Jeff's. Celia would just have to — manage the cooking. Bob came home five minutes before the taxi, and she used the time to explain what had happened, as she packed her overnight case. He stared at her. "But, Mum! I've brought all my muddy football things home. There's a big match tomorrow, and they must be clean." "Ask Celia to wash them—or How badly had she reared her children that they couldn't wash their own clothes. She felt an acute pang of guilt. Celia arrived, breathless and windswept, as Jean was stepping into the taxi. "Mum—wherever are you going?" "To town, with Daddy, for two nights. I know it's unexpected, and I'm sorry, but you'll just have to manage. I've left instructions about the cooking—and the frock is cut out. All you've got to do is to follow the pattern directions carefully." "Mum!" Celia sounded desper- ate. "You know that I couldn't possibly make the frock—or cook for a whole week end. You can't go!" "T can, you know—and I am," her mother told her firmly. "You're not babies, Celia. Which reminds me—if Mitzi seems in trouble, call the vet. Get Lindy Curtis to help you with the frock. She always makes her own." "'She's in Spain, with her grandmother." "For goodness sake!" She tried to think of some other advice. Another, minute and she would miss that train. "Eat out of cans, and ask Brian to take you somewhere else, where a new frock won't matter. Now I'm off! Address and phone number, on the _ hall table—to be used only in case of illness." The taxi slid forward. What a fuss. How wrong she had been in cosseting the family—in making them feel so dependent on her. Dave was right. They must learn by their own efforts—even if they did make a mess, at first. It had taken a twentieth wedding anniversary to convince her. She tried to put them out of her mind. Only Dave must matter, for this week end. But she couldn't help feeling mean—deserting them without notice. Yet how much meaner it would have been, to disappoint her husband. Durinc an interval at the ballet that evening, she glanced at Dave with her heart full of tenderness. How dear he was to her, his fair head bent over his program, his lean, muscled strength at ease for once. She must never allow herself to forget that she was a wife as well as a mother. THE ANNIVERSARY Never once did she mention the children; but her thoughts refused to be controlled. Was it wrong to have left little Mitzi to the doubtful care of teenagers? Would Celia burn the meat? Would she, perhaps, decide to ask a friend to lend her a frock? "You know," Dave remarked, as they were dressing for the theater, "you're still thinking about the children. Why not ring them up, and put your mind at rest?" "No!" She hesitated. '"No— they have to learn to stand on their own feet." She would not admit how badly she longed to contact them. This must surely be the hardest thing for a mother to do—to let her children grow away from her, for' their own sakes. She had been selfish it in not realizing it before. The time spent with aad was wonderful. Before it drew to a close, he put an arm around her, drawing her close. "Thank you," he said, quietly, "for being—just my Jean." They exchanged smiles with perfect understanding. As they drove home from the station, between the peaceful, evening-shadowed fields, Jean, pleasantly rested, wondered how long such a blissful state of mind would last. She envisaged an untidy house, full of boisterous youth and spoiled food. Bob was the first to see his parents leaving the taxi at the gate and came bounding out. "Mum—Mitzi's had three pups. We helped her!" "You did?" She took a deep breath and went inside. Everything was immaculate, the table laid daintily for supper with a nicely cooked joint of 365 MAY 1965 lamb, decorated with parsley, an attractively arranged salad, a golden crusted fruit pie, and a jug of thick cream. "Bob," she asked, Celia?" "Gone to meet Phil. She stayed at his house last night, and he's bringing his parents over to supper. They're going to ask you if they can be engaged." ""where's WEAN sat down suddenly. "Dave, did you hear that?" He had just brought in the suitcases, and he gave his deep chuckle. '"You'll be telling us next that Jeff has made it up with Lucy." "He has."' Bob grinned all over his rosy, freckled face. "Lucy has been looking after us. How do you think we would have got by, if I hadn't sent for her?" "You—what?" his mother asked, faintly. "She was the only person I could think of who could cook. When Celia rang Brian to say she couldn't go to the dance because she hadn't a frock, he was annoyed. Cil got mad, and in the middle of it all, Jeff and Pete came in, and said that Phil had run into a car. Celia went white, dropped the phone and ran out. Next thing we knew, she rang to say she was keeping Phil's mother company, until they sent Phil home from the hospital, and that she and Phil had made it up, and wanted to be engaged." "What happened to Phil, then?" "Hurt his arm, I think—can't be anything much, if they're bringing him in to supper. Anyway, I was on my own, after Pete and Jeff went out, and I got aw- 366 ful hungry. I made a mess of my football shorts—you never said anything about using hot water. So I rang Lucy. She came round right away, washed my things, and cooked us a super meal." "TI like that girl so much," murmured Jean, with warm appreciation. "What then, Bob?" "Well, when Jeff came back and saw her, he gave a big whoop, and picked her right up in his arms." Bob looked confidentially into his mother's face. "You know what? I think they're all nuts!" Jean stole a glance at Dave. His eyes were fairly dancing. But all he said was, "See what I mean?" Bob was still chatting. He caught her arm. "'Lucy's made a chocolate cake. Cil helped. It's to celebrate my being made a prefect; and Cil and Phil getting engaged, if you'll let them; and you and Daddy having an anniversary; and—and Mitzi having pups," he ended triumphantly. Jean threw an arm around him, and went on, "and Jeff and Lucy making up their quarrel, and Daddy getting a great big order and buying new covers for the chairs. This is going to be a wonderful party!" "New covers," repeated Bob, excitedly. 'Well, we must be very rich!" Through the window Jean watched a laughing group of lovely young people coming to the house. Her look embraced them all with a smile of pure content. Holding her husband's arm, she answered the question in the boy's clear eyes. "Yes, Bob," she said, joyously. "Oh, yes, Bob, we are!" g, Mabel Harmer @ Before they had finished breakfast the next morning Uncle Frederick said, ''Now that I have this nice, big car"... He waited for the laughter to subside, and then went on. "Anyway, it will hold the five of us, or so I think. We can try it out, and then you must all go with me on some trips around the countryside. We should visit Garmish and Munich and "Just a minute!" cried Maria. "You forget that I am a working girl, We don't just run off with visiting uncles whenever we take a notion. That is, we don't go and keep our jobs." "And I must become a working girl as fast as I can," said Elsa. "As you know, I just barely had enough money to bring me back here." "Come now. You can go for a Chapter 8 (Conclusion) / iy | fe wt ———— =~ a week, anyway," her uncle insisted. "You will not starve, nor do without any real necessities in that time. And the trip will cost you nothing. You, Maria, can get a week's vacation, surely." "Yes, perhaps I can. And it would be wonderful to have such a pleasant trip." "Good. Just as soon as you can get away we will start off on a holiday. Perhaps we will go over into Austria. As far as Innsbruck, anyway. Why, we can do that in a single day. Now, it is all arranged."" He looked at them all happily. "Tt is all arranged as far as you and I are concerned," laughed Maria. "Herr Klopfer, my employer, may take quite a different view. Anyway, we shall see. I'll ask this very day." "If we do go," said Elsa, "it 367 MAY 1965 should be right away, so that I can get to work as soon as possible. But, as you say, a week probably won't make too much difference." She wanted to go out that very day and start looking for work, but her mother wouldn't hear of it. "You are entitled to one day at home," she said, "after so long an absence. If not, I am entitled to have you here one day, at any rate." Elsa agreed, and when Maria returned from work that evening, she said, "Herr Klopfer will let me go if I can get someone to work in my place. This is the busy season in the gift shop, of course, with all of the tourists coming through now. Vacation time for us is in the late fall and winter when everyone else stays at home." "That problem will be an easy one to solve," said Elsa. "I can take your place. I've had all the traveling and vacation that is coming to me. Besides, I know the shop and can do much better than anyone else. Tell Herr Klopfer that I'll report to work Monday morning." WHEN Maria started to protest, her mother said firmly, "I think Elsa is right. Perhaps if she goes back to work, Herr Klopfer will decide he can use the two of you. Besides," she added with a twinkle in her eyes, "'think how much more comfortable I shall be traveling with only two of us in that small back seat." It was finally agreed that the others would leave on the following Monday, and that Elsa would stay at home and take over the work in the gift shop. 368 By the time Sunday came she had been home for two days and had seen nothing of Karl. She began to suspect that his devotion was more in her mother's mind than in his heart. She strongly suspected, also, that her mother's reason for suggesting that she re-' main at home had more of a motive than merely wanting the additional room in the rear seat of the Volkswagon. They drove to church Sunday morning a few minutes early, so that Maria would be there in plenty of time to play the preliminary organ music. Karl met them in the foyer. His greeting was aS warm as anyone could wish, although he seemed just as much pleased to meet the aunt and uncle as he was to see her again. He was now in the branch presidency, he explained, and would be calling upon her right away to give her a choice of any two or three jobs that she might like. Before Elsa could answer, her mother said, "You must come home with us to dinner today. We want you to get acquainted with our folks from America." Elsa blushed faintly. Hadn't he just made it plain that he would be calling only in the interest of Church service? Why did her mother have to throw her at his head at every opportunity? As they walked into the chapel and took their seats, her mother whispered, "You are very lucky that he has not found another girl, There are plenty who have been after him." "It is possible that he doesn't want a steady girl friend, you know," Elsa replied. "Not every young man does." "Oh, no," her mother protested. "That is not at all likely. He is doing very well in his work. He has even bought a car from a young man who was returning to America." Maria started to play the organ and Elsa said no more. What was the use, anyway? She couldn't convince her mother. She would have to show Karl herself that She hadn't come back mainly to try and capture him. AFTER church her mother said to Karl, "Perhaps you _ will bring Elsa in your car. The rest of us can squeeze in with Frederick." "With pleasure," he replied. "T shall be delayed here for a few minutes on some affairs for the branch. You will not mind the wait?" he asked Elsa. She started to Say that, as long as they had managed to squeeze in to come to church, she thought they could probably get back the same way. But some of her friends claimed her attention to welcome her back home, and by the time she was here was nothing to do now but wait, unless she started out to walk, and that would be much too obvious, When Karl was finally through, he hurried Over and said, " aM So sorry to keep you waiting. There is always some little matter that needs attention. The branch ls growing fast—as J suppose you noticed." "I did indeed. So fast that I am beginning to wonder if [ needed to come back, after all." "Was that the only reason you came?" he asked, giving her a quizzical look. THE TURN OF THE WHEEL She blushed faintly. "That was the main reason. "T hope so," he said simply, taking her arm and leading her to the car. At the house they found a very happy group. Mother Breinholt ad prepared the Sunday dinner that Elsa remembered best. Not elaborate, since most of it had been done the day before, but substantial and very good. Gan telling him how much better he could do in America. Have a fine farm—all our own," he said. "Our boys have all been to universities and have professions. If they had lived here it would have been just ordinary jobs," "Not so," interrupted Aunt Edith. "Our boys would have done wel] anywhere." "Indeed, yes!" added Sister Breinholt sharply, "Anyone with ambition can do just as well here as anywhere. Years ago. Why do you suppose that Elsa came back again?" "Ja, ja!" exclaimed Uncle Frederick with a chuckle. "So we will let you young people stay right here. I wil] Say no more." 369 MAY 1965 From the look on her mother's face, Elsa was sure that it was just as well. T Hey had a pleasant afternoon, and when it was time to réturn to church for the evening service, Karl said, "'Will you play the organ tonight? Maria has done double duty all this time. I'm sure that she would like a chance to sit down in the congregation once more." Both sisters agreed and Elsa took her place at the organ. She touched the keys lovingly. For some reason or other, it seemed to bring back to her, more than anything else, the great love she had for the old familar things and places. Purposely she played "The Happy Wanderer." Yes, the wanderer was home again and she was happy. She was also deeply content, and for that she was grateful. Happiness and contentment were rare treasures in anyone's life, sometimes purchased dearly. Always to be guarded zealously. The two speakers of the evening were recent converts, a man and his wife. Elsa felt that their deep joy was a reflection of her own. After the service the rest of the family drove home again with Uncle Frederick, but Karl took Elsa for a ride along the river on the opposite side from the castle. The great red brick battlements and towers were brilliant under floodlights, and it made a magnificent picture on the dark green of the hills. "Did you ever see anything so beautiful in America?" asked Karl. 370 "Well, yes—to tell the truth, I did. The temple in Salt Lake City, lighted up at night, is the most inspiring sight I have ever seen, or ever expect to see. Naturally, there is a vast difference." "Then some day you shall go back. But just long enough to have another look. In the meantime, you must make do with our castle." "With the greatest of pleasure. Anyway, as far as I know, there isn't a single real castle in all of the United States." Later she was to ponder his words, inferring that she might go back again some day for a visit. Was it a promise—of sorts? Early the next morning she bade goodbye to the others as they set out for their holiday. She would very much have liked to go. Garmish, Innsbruck—perhaps Salzburg, were magic names that she would have loved to make realities. But she quickly thrust such "selfish" thoughts aside. Her travels were over for the time. She must get to work. It was fun to walk through Bismarkplatz again—to see and smell the lovely flowers. As she went down Hauptstrasse her first thoughts flew back to that morning, more than a year ago, when she had met the tall American soldier—met him so violently indeed that the Hoop-la had been knocked to the pavement and broken. Ar the gift shop Herr Klopfer was delighted to see her again. "I knew all the time that you would be back," he beamed. "No one can sell gifts as you can. You have a real love for the beautiful."' "Thank you very much," she replied. "I am surely glad to be back. If only for this week." "Nein!" he cried. "'Now that I have both you and Maria it is time for me to take a vacation. For fifteen years now I have been at this shop day and night, ex- | cept on Sundays and _ holidays. Now it is my turn to play. Frau Klopfer and I will go to the Land of the Midnight Sun. Is that not a wonderful idea?" "It is, indeed," agreed Elsa. "Quite as wonderful for me as for you." She was grateful that she was sure now of work for at least a month. That would give her ample time to look around and find something more permanent. When she left the shop that evening Karl was waiting outside in his red Volkswagon. Her face lighted up. "What a nice surprise!" she exclaimed. "Now I shan't have to punish my aching feet any longer but can ride home like a queen." "But we are not going home," he answered, "I have a lunch packed. We are going up to Konigstuhl. There is something I wish you to see." "Good! It will be wonderful to see my valley again from the top of Konigstuhl—especially on this lovely summer evening." They parked the car and took the funicular railroad up to the top. Then they walked along a path to a spot that afforded a wonderful view of the valley and the Neckar River below. When they came to a grassy knoll, Karl spread out the blanket he had carried and put down the lunch basket.. "T hope this will be enough," THE TURN OF THE WHEEL he said. "I remember that your 'mother packed twice as much for our last picnic up here." "And we probably carried half of it back down again," smiled Elsa. "Yes, I am sure that this will do." T Hey ate heartily and there was none left this time to carry back. "Now, I have something else to show you," said Karl, rising and helping Elsa to her feet. They walked along the path around a bend and there, close by the side of the path, was a small pile of rocks. "See," he pointed. "Our monument." "But! How has it lasted all these months?' she gasped in surprise. 'Surely small boys have been along to toss them down hill?" "A few," he admitted. "Once in awhile I have had to rebuild. But in the main, it is still here. It marks the spot where I first fell in love with you." He took hold of her hand. 'Shall I leave it here—or join the small boys and scatter the rocks on the hillside?" "Oh, yes, Karl! Leave it by all means!" He put an arm around her and drew her close. "There will be a group going to the temple at Berne within a few weeks. I have been there once. It is very lovely against the setting of pines. Shall we go? You will not find it so large and magnificent perhaps as the one in Salt Lake City." "No," she smiled happily. "But this one is ours. This is where I want to go." She looked up into his eyes again and added, "And I want to go with you." 371 Magazine Honor Roll for 1964 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp Statistics on the number of subscribers to The Relief Society Magazine take on meaning as letters come constantly to the General Board from subscribers who express appreciation for what the contents of the Magazine mean to them. Every phase of a woman's life which the General Board seeks to strengthen through the pages of the Magazine, comes in for praiseworthy comment. The spiritual, intellectual, practical, and beautifying values of articles receive individual commendation. In addition, the worth of the Magazine as a proselyting and. Fellowshipping means is hailed. In the stakes and missions, past issues of the Magazine have been gathered and distributed to nonsubscribers and nonmembers as an inviting introduction to the world-wide sisterhood, with excellent results. It is well to reflect that behind every subscriber is the faithful and devoted work of a Relief Society Magazine representative and the encouraging guidance of a Relief Society president in the wards, stakes, missions, and on the General Board. President Spafford, who was the editor of the Magazine from 1937 to 1945, as the General Manager, keeps a careful watchcare over all phases of the Magazine-production from the initial planning to the colorful printed Magazine. The devotion on the part of the editorial staff is dedicated as is the devotion of the more than 6,800 Magazine representatives in the Church who go in good and bad weather as faithful emissaries of the Relief Society to spread the work of Relief Society through the printed word. The Magazine representatives go both to the crowded city dweller and to the lonely outpost of the bush. They serve in such places as New York and London, to the wives of servicement in Okinawa, Germany, Spain, and elsewhere, and to South Africa. The Magazine is welcomed by the elderly as well as by the young mother surrounded by her growing children, by the bride, and by the expert housekeeper. Relief Society gathers in the womanhood of the Church and sends back to the ever-increasing number of English-reading members words of instruction, encouragement, enjoyment, and love through The Relief Society Magazine. 372 MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 The General Board is pleased to announce an increase in subscriptions in 1964 of 14,437. There were 357 stakes on the Honor Roll, with 163 stakes reaching 100 per cent and up to 216 per cent. The highest percentage again has been achieved by South Los Angeles Stake, marking the eighteenth year in which this stake has led the Church both percentage-wise as well as in the number of subscriptions—1,683. There are twenty-two missions on the Honor Roll. No one can measure the influence which Magazine representatives exert as they place The Relief Society Magazine in the homes of the sisters. Readers —men as well as women—testify to the blessed benefits which the sisters receive even to assisting in conversions. A Magazine representative has an important and influential calling and receives blessings commensurate with the energy and devotion she expends in behalf of her sisters. The General Board commends the Magazine representatives for the great work they perform, extends heartfelt thanks to Relief Society presidents, and also to mission supervisors for the encouragement and stimulation they give to this vital part of the work of Relief Society. HONORS FOR HIGHEST RATINGS Stake South Los Angeles (California) 216% Magazine Representative — Dona Osborn Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 366% Magazine Representative — Imogene Slater Mission Western States Mission — 112% Mission Magazine Representative — Carrell Thorpe Mission District West Kansas District, Western States Mission — 148% Magazine Representative — Edith Bhornburgh Mission Branch Fergus Falls Branch — 450% Dakota District, North Central States Mission Magazine Representative — Ella Vollbrecht Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles.........0..0000.0.0...22e2eee216.... Dona Osborn Huntington Park.......2. Eee194..._Mary L. Hebner Glendale 22.0.0... Ccc cccceccececceseeececeeseeeeess137.... Edythe M. Fairbanks Las Vegas.20.....222.. Cce. Cceceecee cece eeeeeeeeeeeeeeees137.... Eloise Leavitt DY CO)130.... Alice Bundies | S00 6 |) ee 129... Virginia F. Nichols 16 0) 128.... Catherine Jean Jeffree San Diego East......................... A...126... Lorraine E. Sharpe D0) y (6: rr 125.... Vera M. Williams Chicago 222.020... Ceeee eee ecec teeter 123.... Vilda Page 373 MAY 1965 Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Western States....../..2......2:0cc000—..112.... Carrell Thorpe Cumorah, ¢00.............-22..20- cence cence eeeeeeeeeeeee111.... Lu Seba Peterson North Central States..............0....00.———110.... Carmen Dahlgren Canadian...................--.0.. Cccceeeeeeeeeeee ee~.....107.... Elna M. Adamson Western Canadian..................2...:2.0.0200--- 104... Vera Jean Noyes Jones Northern States.00...000...0... Cccceceeceeceeeeeces 100.... Ira Mae Palmer Eastern Atlantic States _........................100.... Dorothy B. Burton California............0..00-.200ecteeeeeeceeceeeeeee eens 98... Midene McKay Anderson Central States _............ Enlsll sco 98... Norma Furnell West Central States.......-0...00000-..----- 96.... Lois Montague Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No.; No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1683 Ensign 1072 Glendale 1468 Bonneville 1027 Huntington Park 1336 Burley 1000 Mesa 116514 Grant 1000 Las Vegas 1162 San Diego 995 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions East Central States 1259 Northwestern States 699 New England 959 Canadian 627 Gulf States 821 Northern States 610 Eastern Atlantic 757 Florida 594 North Central States 719 West Central States 533 374 Stakes in Which All Wards Received 100% or Over 72600001 C) | Zola Ricks Bonneville _.........0.0......0. Cccellicceseeecesseeeeee eee, Grace B. Larsen Brigham City |... 22.2..2.020..2 eeeHilda R. Forrest | S10) (-) ceVirginia F. Nichols Canoga Park.2....000000..0.02220000cceeeeee cece eeeJeanine D. Hansen East Idaho Falls........000000..02..0000..002.0--------Sarah Owens East Mesa _.00.0........0000cclececeeeeeecceeeeeceneetees Elva M. Brown East Phoenix....00.....00.200.0.2220000cceceeceeeeee eee! Geneva Cluff Ensign.0.....00000.. C200000ccceeeeeeeseen. Pearl L. Whitney Glendale 2002... Lee eeseeeeeeceeee eee: Edythe M. Fairbanks Grange........0.02-. 2. Eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee------- Wiola G, Johnson Granite......00000....... SieteJane Henry Cl |Roene Boulter Huntington Park......0..000....00-0..22..- eeeMary L. Hebner Inglewood..........0........22220--.-2-20eeceeeeeeee-eeee*Edith Pew Kansas City...00002..0........ Weaceceeocen seerVenna T. Witbeck Las Vegas... 0.. CcccccccccceccceeeeceeenceeeeeeeeeeeeEloise Leavitt Liberty 2.0... Eee eectsLuella Birrell Long Beach.....0.........0..2...0..20. CeecceeeeeeeeeeeeErma G. Halls ls CSF: ccc PEJulia Kerby Millereek....0..0000.0.000000000.. Ceeee ce teeeeee eensMartha J. H. Matern Monument Park......000..0000.0000000.000cceee eeeRuth B. Parkinson Mt. Olympus....00oo0002 oo. Ann Goldthorpe Mt. Rubidoux......... Eaneeort |ee, Mary U. Tiffany Napad 9... Ieee eee e cence ceseeceeeecaeeeceesecauacesLa Vaun L. Allen North Pocatello..... North Tooele......--- Oakland-Berkeley Orange County.....- Palmyra......------------ Parleys...-...------------- South Cottonwood South Idaho Falls - South Los Angeles South Salt Lake.... Wells.....---------------- HONOR ROLL — STAKES BY PERCENTAGES — 1964 Rigby........------------- St. Joseph........------- San Diego East..... Scottsdale..........----- Seattle.........---------= Shelley......-------:----- MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 Sara Fisher Mildred Sagers La Von B. Johnson Imogene Allred Eleanor D. Olsen Lucille L. Taylor Dianne E. Johns Ora Stallings Ruth Marshall Lorraine E. Sharpe Anna Lee Gooch Dorothy C. Newman June L. Walton Anna V. Lindman Alice Moss Donna Osborn Hannah Dietrich Gertrude S. Fullmer Ethel S. Taylor Beulah D. Mickel Lila F. Madsen Gladys K. Groll South Los Angeles Huntington Park Glendale Las Vegas Mojave Burley Sydney San Diego East Florida Chicago Phoenix West Modesto Inglewood Long Beach Phoenix North South Idaho Falls Whittier Cumorah East Mesa Moapa Maricopa San Diego Monument Park Palomar Ammon Rexburg North Box Elder Wichita Ensign Woodruff 216 194 137 137 130 129 128 126 125 123 122 121 119 119 119 118 118 117 117 117 117 116 116 116 116 116 115 115 115 115 Redondo 114 Orange County Norwalk 114 Mt. Rubidoux Grand Junction 114 Grant American Falls 113 West Utah Santa Monica 113 North Pocatello Brigham City 113 Boston Liberty 113 Napa Cassia 113 Taber Toronto 113 East Idaho Falls East Phoenix 113 Calgary St. Joseph 113 Palmyra Phoenix 113 San Joaquin Rigby 113 Grand Coulee Southern Arizona 112 Juarez Mt. Graham 112 East Long Beach Oakland-Berkeley 112 Cannon Portland 112 Lost River St. Louis 112 Shelley Nyssa 111 Sharon Oquirrh 111 Torrance San Fernando 111 Canoga Park Bonneville 111 Salmon River Alameda 111 Scottsdale Wells 111 Granite Milwaukee 110 Pomona Roy 110 Riverdale Monterey Bay 1106 Mesa Pocatello 110 Minidoka South Salt Lake 110 Zion Park San Jose 110 Granger 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 375 MAY 1965 Las Vegas North Idaho Falls Provo Twin Falls Big Horn Tucson West Covina Granger North Temple View Juab North Sacramento Garden Grove New York North Tooele West Boise St. George East Seattle N. Columbia River East Rigby Norfolk Bountiful East Washington Dallas Reno North Malad Lake View Ashley Millcreek El Paso Sevier Highland Potomac St. George Taylor Bear River Columbia River Star Valley Weber Heights Panguitch Kansas City South Cottonwood West Sharon Wilford Mt. Olympus East Los Angeles Concord Yellowstone Parleys Philadelphia Tacoma 376 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 Burbank Edmonton Union East Sharon Uvada Boise Redwood Reno South Summit Mt. Jordan Cedar Granite Park Portneuf Millard St. Johns Springville Emigration San Juan Billings Snowflake Santa Barbara Park Denver Holladay San Diego South Riverton Wind River Franklin Mesa South San Leandro South Bear River Box Elder Puget Sound Casper East Jordan Teton Alaska Mt. Logan Yuma East Millcreek North Idaho Falls Riverside Bannock Kolob South Box Elder New Orleans San Mateo North Davis Santa Ana Glasgow 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 100 Mt. Ogden Oneida Farr West North Rexburg West Pocatello Great Falls New Jersey Sandy Santa Rosa Sugar House Nampa Timpanogos Beaver Denver South Pasadena Tooele Albuquerque Olympus North Jordan Orlando Cheyenne Ogden North Carbon North Seattle Humboldt San Bernardino Sacramento Idaho Spanish Fork Grantsville San Francisco Logan Lyman San Luis Obispo South Blackfoot Blackfoot Canyon Rim Rose Park Denver West Raft River Walnut Creek Alberta East Cache Taylorsville Weiser Gridley Salt Lake Covina Portland West San Jose West 97 97 97 97 97 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 96 95 95 95 95 95 95 95 95 95 94 94 94 94 94 94 94 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 93 92 92 92 92 Atlanta Pikes Peak American Fork Chicago South Oklahoma Nebo Weber West Jordan Roosevelt Bountiful South Seattle East 92 92 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 Monument Pk. West 91 East Pocatello Virginia Kearns North Wayne Deseret Cache South Davis Klamath Los Angeles Tulsa East Provo Murray Murray South Richland Valley View Cascade Hamilton Bear Lake Butler Fresno Winder Montpelier Raleigh Gooding Lethbridge Honolulu Alpine Bakersfield Hillside Wasatch Brisbane Hyrum 'Tempe North Sevier Melbourne Santaquin-Tintic Fresno East Nevada 91 91 90 90 90 90 PERSRSRSR oo Saas Utah Kaysville Moroni Detroit Layton Clearfield Reseda South Sevier Benson Carbon Cottonwood East Ogden Bountiful North Lansing Young Duchesne Summit Uintah San Luis Smithfield Clearfield Lorin Farr Butte Lake Mead Kanab Auckland Willamette Washington Terrace Palo Alto Missoula Minnesota American River Davis University West Redding Macon Yakima Lehi London Ben Lomond North Weber Corvallis Winter Quarters South Sanpete North Carolina Shreveport Miami Morgan Salem Hayward MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 87 87 87 87 87 87 86 86 86 86 86 86 85 85 85 Kearns 719 Midvale 79 Parowan 719 Blaine 79 Orem West 79 Spokane 79 Bountiful 77 Columbus 17 Beaumont 77 Oahu V7 Pioneer 717 South Carolina 77 Gunnison 77 North Sanpete 76 Manchester 76 Medford 76 Garfield 75 Santa Maria 75 Tampa 14 Vancouver TA Craig 14 - South Ogden 73 Ben Lomond South 73 Emery 73 Fort Wayne 73 Hunter 73 Orem 72 Lewiston 72 Coeur d'Alene 70 Indianapolis 70 Cleveland 69 South Carolina West 69 Pearl Harbor 69 Greensboro 69 Cedar West 68 Leicester 68 Flagstaff 67 Cincinnati 66 Houston 66 Illinois 65 San Antonio 64 Corpus Christi 61 Leeds 59 Sandy East 50 Hawkes Bay 35 Limited Participation in University Campus Stakes 377 378 Relief Society Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaumont Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Enroll ment 482 260 793 601 674 395 654 857 530 569 271 425 628 370 507 533 244 553 749 669 910 352 7153 294 742 926 327 749 422 667 710 Subscriptions No. | Pet. 5323)111 255 | 98 738 | 93 576 | 96 595 | 88 448 5973| 91 7053| 82 612 590 248 | 92 355 | 84 STAKES ON HONO Magazine Representative Rosalie W. Taylor Mariam D. Johnson Viola B. Wynder Eddis J. Fidel Blanche D. Bennett Erminnie J ohnson Ethel C. Graff Norma Pezely Zola Ricks Barsalena R. Hatch Barbara H. Blake Catharine M. Douglas June Davies Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Lottie R. Potter Hattie M. Moss Gertrude Marshall Marelda H. Cutler Arlene A. Kupfer Phyllis Borders Maude Jd. DeVor Janet Wray Vera E. Clifford Marion Hugentobler Grace B. Larsen Janette E. Bergman Beula Nelson Janice G. Stewart Columbia L. Argyle Colleen C. Poulsen R ROLL—1964 Relief Society Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa Fast Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Florida Franklin Fresno Fresno East Garden Grove Garfield Glasgow Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger No. 352 948 644 493 7173 754 6483 631 704 661 561 620 667 776 432 545 587 1072 7163 780 815 377 370 526 227 107 1468 606 715 569 473 Subscriptions Pct. 85 93 Magazine Representative Minnie M. Hamilton Venice S. Hill Sarah Owens LoVenna S. Cook Catherine F. Berger Fairie K. Session Elva M. Brown Doris N. Barney Katherine Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff Jerri Sanders Eva J. Slick Myrtle Burtenshaw Lucile M. Weenig Helen Johnson Maud Taylor Bentley Sarah K. McKay Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Vera M. Williams Edna P. Lemmon Sarah Jean Stoker Laurine A. Ensign Aleen R. Larsen Melba Gates Jane McGibbon Edythe M. Fairbanks Viola Gold Marjie Barrus Irma Purnell Viola G. Johnson MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 379 Box Elder | Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Clearfield Columbia River Columbus Concord Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Cumorah ° Dallas Davis Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit 491 516 269 698 775 630 562 710 578 551 414 953 734 373 249 401 - 427 428 337 404 707 569 328 463 239 485 662 312 592 729 426 432 519 735 507 484 584 228 711 1000 560 472 640 627 595 445 891} 6303 332 245 452 433 409 413: 369 612 586 253 473 194 416 607 366 616 598 424 416 485 | 663 439 Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest Elsie E. Orth June Gardner Virginia F. Nichols Gladys R. Loveless Afton L. Whiteworth Norma J. Thompson Gwen Haycock Elsie Duehlmeier Jeanine D. Hansen Ruth Rushforth Gertrude M. McCourt Georgia M. Heiner Donna R. Thatcher Valoy Casperson Lottie T. Bladen Kathryn K. Andrews Vilda Page 'Doris H. Grott Ruby Taylor Agnes G. Hill Lelah De Gray Mae Annie Davis Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Gladys I. Barker Margaret G. Stoner Dorothy Fobes Marie S. Lloyd Katherina Belmain Carolyn R. Derrich Gay Hanson Erma E. Cropper Marlene Klaphaak Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Gridley Gunnison Hamilton Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Humboldt Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns Kearns North Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas North Layton 573 647 673 913 598 358 862 445 401 551 587 1122 - 857 576 261 690 771 480 590 633 546 97 524 587 673 536.558 247 658 608 465 443 849 746 1034 604 694 679 1000 565 345 798 341 357 436 606 989 847 509 248 1336 676 454} 625 756 574 105 4383 603 585 424 5043 222 642 511 483 378 1161 793 895 Ella H. Larson Jane Henry Lythia Street Roene Boulter Abbie K. Paskett Glenna MacDonald Vera Allred Katie Larson Evelyn Parton Esther H. Kenison Vesta E. Rockwood Ruby S. Ockey Arlene F. Dean Lois G. Weggeland Aliene N. Bloxham Mary L. Hebner Elsie B. Poppleton Elizabeth L. Hogan Verna Hoopes Edith Pew Selma Tranter Virginia B. Whetten — Vauna L. Covington Venna T. Witbeck Adelia Rushforth Fern G. Neilsen LaVeigh T. Atwood Beverly Ellis Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Ethel S. Boswell Lucille Ranney Eloise Leavitt Vaun S. Klingonsmith Bernice S. Earl MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 380 Magazine Representative Palomar Pangui tch Park MAY 1965 381 Monument Park Monument Pk. West Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Olympus Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York Norfolk North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina N. Columbia River North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber 565 722 385 370 707 571 823 680 486 669 662 951 980 528 684 454 449 383 502 288 469 596 420 328 820 778 560 306 693 537 707 509 458 480 664 653 655 306 321 793 577 807 660 498 733 592 8494 944 575 6233 395 433 373 526 301 541 568 337 343 7974 761 536 334 672 564 538 484 401 503 539 Ruth B. Parkinson Faye B. Beatty Ruth Harrison Betty A. Cook Flora John Norma Erickson Elaine Passey Louise Woodland Ann Goldthorpe Mary U. Tiffany Liesel Barthel Lois Madsen Ida Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch May Probert Beth S. Robison Dottie Wilson Margaret Bruns Lorna H. McPherson Sue F. Kapp Lue Twiddell Eugenia S. Cochran Sarah M. Williams Helen W. Barber Thora B. Smith Melva B. Jones Sara Fisher Myrtle B. Park Kerma K. Jensen Genniel B. Watson Lillian Bulman Clarissa J. Sorensen Mildred Sagers Lola B. Venstra Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North ' Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South Sandy San Fernando 535 549 548 195 231 391 582 270 534 462 670 746 757 875 459 647 508 573 879 618 739 503 524 530 613 344 336 200 769 890 856 391 477 607 705 552 581 540 182 205 320 665 274 542 481 5763 862 675 984 492 633 5033 521 822 6823 701 519 5483 533 690 384 266 215 7093 846 995 491 473 585 783 Emilie Packer Deseret Bullock Selena Fern Burbidge Ann Nye Myrtle M. Dixon Maxine Hansen Nedra R. Stott Minnie W. Herrin Doris Young Bette Streeper Gloria O. Peterson Mary K. Welker Beulah M. Page Ora Stallings Aneta Olson Iona N. Whitehead Blanche B. Densley Ruth L. Ostler Beverley L. Lundstrom Va Lois Bangerter Adelle M. Gorsch Sylva S. Graf Ruby M. Iverson Mae H. Wiltbank Ruth Marshall Margaretha Evans Mary B. Wall Sarah M. Hudlow Frances L. Kooyman Roma Simmons Kay Calder Lorraine E. Sharpe Ethel M. Burningham Louise R. Neff Noriene W. Kerr MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 382 Relief Society San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls ment, No, Pet. 438 | 414 | 95 399 | 433 | 109 552 | 606 1110 531 | 487 | 99 724 | 725 |100 445 | 439 | 99 554 | 469 | 35 220 | 206 | 94 680 | 662 | 97 477 | 464 | 97 523 | 522 |100 246 | 185 | 75 803 | 910 |113 647 | 624 | 96 407 | 448 |107 417| 448 |107 529 | 554 1105 365 | 3313] 91 875] 9033] 103 580 | 626 | 108 850] 918 | 108 463] 371 | 80 778| 658 | 85 870 | 869 | 100 7501 740 | 99 809 | 757 | 94 481] 469 | 98 498 | 382 | 77 563 | 578 | 103 7421 668 | 90 523 | 6183] 118 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1964 Magazine Representative Reta M. Heaton Mildred E. White Elaine Hewett Carol Gifford Georgan H. Burtenshaw Elfonda Barker Hazel Haynie Edna C. Sawyer Ruby Elwood Ethel Blood Colleen M. Dial Geneva Wanlass Helen Hanson Mae Ballenger Ella H. Sandstrom Anna L. Gooch Dorothy C. N ewman Erma Kenyon Manetta Hansen Neva M. Hamling June L. Walton Bertie F. Sentilles Ruby J. Thornley Lucilia S. Peterson Meda P. Hupp Agnes D. Cox Nila J. Stucki Fannie Branham Anna V. Lindman Naomi B. Stanbridge Alice Moss Relief Society South Los Angeles South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Sydney Taber Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Tempe Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah "ment, No. Pet. 77911683 | 216 479} 527 1110 843} 6783) 81 480] 413 | 86 441} 4463] 101 403] 453 | 112 739} 700 | 95 548] 433 | 79 715] 719 | 101 717] 7353] 103 954] 9193! 96 390] 331 | 85 373] 4763] 128 410] 446 | 109 458] 467 | 102 711] 733 | 103 679] 631 | 93 332] 291] 88 717] 756 | 105 542! 532] 98 957] 920] 96 548] 526] 96 536] 604 | 113 556} 600 | 108 580} 612 | 106 295) 265] 90 994/ 1052 | 106 519} 440] 85 621} 6314] 102 793} 650 | 82 646 562] 87 Magazine Representative Dona Osborn Hannah Dietrich' Tris D. Anderson Vera Smith Martha A. Lambert Maud Post Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Gwen A. Tippetts Leta Coffman Nellie J. Ehlers Clara C. Copley Catherine J. Jeffree Joan S. Anderson Ruth E. Fowler Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Coats Florence H. Bateman Mabel E. Snow Bertha Gillette Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ruth Florence Rennie Ivy R. Higdon Belva Jones Virginia R. Jacobson La Vella Pace Erma B. Taylor Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Faye Christensen MAY 1965 EnrollEnrollSubscriptions Subscriptions 383 Uvada Valley View Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello Relief Society Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States Cumorah East Central States Eastern Atlantic States Eastern States (Bermuda Br.) Florida Gulf States 320 715 317 442 814 645 435 341 734 663 620 888 799 730 668 971 325 637 287 412 715 673 363 308 669 683 575 9813 837 770 608 602 Subscriptions No. 454 308 627 349 494 396 1259 757 10 594 821 Pct. 95 98 107 79 98 105 86 100 111 80 85 Mae Hall Grace R. Engh Ethel T. Sweet Janet L. C. McManus Ruby Hicken Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodliffe Ruth Taylor Gonda De Boer Alma M. Peterson Vena M. Anderson Gertrude S. Fullmer Edith Coleman Lucille C. Hales Virginia B. Anderson Alta Holmes MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL—1964 Magazine Representative Leola G. Durrant Ida Fuller Elva M. Adamson Rella White Norma J. Furnell LuSeba W. Peterson Nyla H. Morgan Helen Hatch Zelma R. West Ollie Hutchison Marie C. Richards West Sharon West Utah Whittier Witchita Wilford Willamette Winder Wind River Winter Quarters Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Relief Society Trish New England North Central States Northern Far East (2 branches) Kadena Br., Naha Br. Northern States Northwestern States Southern Australian Texas (West Texas Dist.) West Central States Western Canadian Western States 1136 538 TAT 580 238 684 520 622 181 376 651 298 908 701 364 410 Enrollent 163 652 45 612 808 625 239 556 301 425 552 817 682 274 702 437 553 179 303 746 243 928 597 357 437 103 109 118 115 103 84 89 99 81 115. 82 102 85 98 107 Subscriptions No. 123 959 719 35 610 699 528 210 533 314 476 Pet. 76 84 110 Ethel S. Taylor Nola L. Stubbs Beulah D. Mickel M. Marcella Meador Lila F. Madsen Thelma Beckstrand Charlottie B. Poulton Betty G. Nelson Beverly K. Nye Gladys K. Groll LaVerne G. Jackson Leola Beddes Matilda Lewis Effie Nowland Pearl Stratton Magazine Representative Mary E. Brooks Alberta S. Baker Carmen Dahlgren Peggy Anderson Esther Waite Eva Mertlick Florence M. Carthew Willetta E. Mansell Florence M. Broberg Vera Jean N. Jones Carrell Thorpe MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1964 Just for a Moment Jeanette C. Ryder Today, after we had finished dinner, my eleven-year-old daughter said, "Come on, Mother, get your sweater." "Where are we going?" I asked. "Come on, get your sweater," she said, divulging nothing. "Can you make it?" she asked. "T can go anywhere you can," I laughing answered. "Oh, I don't know," she joked back. I followed her through the willows and brush, ducking under limbs, stepThis House Leora Larsen And when I, too, must one day Leave, Lord, let me make a home Many peopled. May Annie Atkin Tanner Rain-gray is the sky; Spring-green grows the lawn. Yellow forsythia, | Pink clouds at dawn. Lingering twilights Longer each day, Sprays of Purple lilacs, And then, it is May. 384 This house is many peopled. If loneliness visits here Its stay is brief. Here grandchildren bring their Sweet language of living joy and Strengthen our hope. Friends have rested in this room, Eaten well at this table, Are well prayed for. Each left a shadow of love. Beloved each and blessed be Their safe return. The Relief Society Magazine in the Lehi (Utah) Carnegie Library Gudrun Wathen In 1951, Sister Hazel May Bone, the stake Relief Society Magazine representative, suggested that the Lehi Stake Relief Society contribute the Magazine to the public library as a permanent project. This was approved by the Relief Society presidency, under the direction of Sister Lileth Peck. With Sister Bone in charge of this project, The Relief Society Magazine was sent to the Public Library every month, and at the end of each year the stake Relief Society presidency had the issues beautifully bound, and placed in the library for the benefit of all who were interested in reminiscing over the past years, the marvelous work of the Relief Society organization, and its accomplishments. Sister Bone, after serving four years in this work, was released, and Sister Rosa Ashton for the past nine years has carried on with this worthwhile contribution with the cooperation of the stake Relief Society presidencies. Leah M. Sabey is now President of Lehi, Utah, Stake Relief Society. During these years the Relief Society sisters gathered back issues from many who had preserved them, and these were sent to the bindery. We now have all volumes, beautifuly bound, back to and including 1915, in the library at the present time. We express our grateful appreciation to all who have contributed toward this worthwhile project. Rain Forest Ethel Jacobson Sunlight like rain slants down Through layer on layer of green From the loftiest hemlock's crown To where vine maples screen Young saplings sprung in rows On a giant fallen log. Each wraith of sunshine glows Through an ever-luminous fog— Emerald, celadon, jade, Like a land beneath the sea. This shimmering moss-hung glade Is bathed eternally In a hushed and aqueous light— A lichened, ferny domain Of peace and of all the bright-haired Children of the rain. 385 et. Ti) —"é § All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. Relief Society Activities - ae rAS i } North Tooele Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present an Evening of Music December 3, 1964 On the right, seated at the piano: Geraldine Droubay, organist; standing next to Sister Droubay: Kathleen Slater, chorister. Geneel O. Stewart, President, North Tooele Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our 'Evening of Music' will be an evening long remembered by the capacity audience that came to hear the beautiful songs rendered by the Singing Mothers. Amid the holiday splendor of poinsettias, the Singing Mothers, dressed in their lovely white blouses and dark skirts, each wearing an attractive Christmas corsage, sang 'their hearts out' as each thrilling number was presented. One of the highlights of the evening was the rendition of 'Come, Come, Ye Saints.' A special guest, Sister Hilda Erickson, Utah's only remaining original pioneer, sat cheerfully in her place of honor, an old rocking chair, as the group sang in her honor. At the close of the number she responded very graciously, much to the delight of the audience. Talented guest soloists presented vocal and instrumental numbers that were well received., "Christmas music greeted the crowd as they neared the chapel. In the foyer ~ was a beautifully lighted nativity scene that brought to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas. At the close of the concert, refreshments were served on three long serving tables which were artistically decorated in keeping with the yuletide atmosphere. Delicious punch and homemade cookies were enjoyed by all. "The sixty Singing Mothers met faithfully every Thursday morning at 9:30 for many weeks to practice for the entertainment for the stake building fund. Plans for the musical were carefully and prayerfully worked out by President Stewart and her Counselors Ethel Weight and Fern Gillette, and members of the board." 386 NOTES FROM THE FIELD CEO EM py sy North Jordan Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present November 1964 "A World of Peace and Love" 387 MAY 1965 Manchester Stake (England) Music Display at Friendship Social December 5, 1964 Maureen Hoyle, President, Manchester Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'Members of the committee were: First Counselor Irene Bates; Second Counselor Doreen Preston; Grace Steward; Lee Thornton; Joyce Roberts; Syivia Walker. The social had two pnases—talks and music in the chapel and an exhibition in the cultural hall. The talks were written by Mary Boswell, the chorister, and the music was by the Singing Mothers. "The photograph shows the much admired music display. The other activities—work, literature, social science, and theology were represented by similar displays. There was also a visiting teacher tableau. The occasion was entirely successful, and we were greatly uplifted by the obvious delight of our guests. About thirty nonmembers were present. On the following Monday evening we repeated our program before about one hundred Church members and friends. The program was described by stake Priesthood officials as being 'worthy of the beautiful building in which it was presented and destined to inspire higher standards in Church activity throughout the stake.' "' Philadelphia Stake, Salisbury (Maryland) Branch Bazaar, October 10, 1964 In front of a ''downtown"' bank, left to right: LaVern Rutter, President; Anna A. Lambert, Secretary-Treasurer; Thelma K. Hastings, First Counselor. Fern L. Hatch, President, Philadelphia Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The year 1964 will be remembered by the sisters in Salisbury, Maryland, for a good many years to come, and the successful bazaar will be a guide to follow. The bazaar was held in downtown Salisbury and the net proceeds totaled nearly $475. All varieties of beautifully made articles were sold, from homemade fudge and jams to children's clothing and quilts. The bazaar was not only a success financially, but was a great missionary tool also in introducing the talents of the members of the Relief Society to the community. The total membership of the Salisbury Branch is only twenty, but devotion to the gospel is the rule and not the exception in the Salisbury Relief Society." Greensboro Stake (North Carolina) Relief Society Bazaar, November 28, 1964 Left to right, standing in the Winston-Salem Ward booth: Meris Gormley, First Counselor; Betty Marion, President; Janice Teddar, visiting teacher. Jessie Tyler Roberts, President, Greensboro Stake Relief Society, reports: "This booth from the Winston-Salem Ward is representative of the eleven booths and displays which made our first stake bazaar a successful event and the highlight of the year for the sisters of Greensboro Stake. "The cultural hall of the new Greensboro stake house had beautifully decorated booths arranged around the hail. The handwork was varied and outstanding, consisting of smocked pillows, pixie dolls, children's clothing, aprons, quilts, pillowcases, hand-knit and crocheted slippers and sweaters, mounted pictures and wall plaques, baked and canned products, and a variety of Christmas ideas and arrangements. "For publicity, outstanding articles were displayed on a television program by Sister Roberts and Sister Virginia Harper, ward president. Attractive posters were distributed throughout the stores by the publicity committee. "We feel that the sisters derived more than just a financial increase by participating in a stake bazaar. A desire to improve their talents was instilled in the sisters, a choice selection of new ideas gained, enthusiasm built in the hearts of the sisters to go forward, and a warm spirit of cooperation and teamwork unequaled." 388 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 389 MAY 1965 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California), Oakland Fourth Ward Christmas Bazaar November 14, 1964 Homemade bread featured at ''Santa's Sweet Shop," sold by Jennie Tate and Adeline Pratt. Margaret S. Fife, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: '**A Sneak Preview of Christmas' was the theme of the bazaar. Decorations, booths, special events, gay Christmas aprons worn by officers and committee chairmen, jingle bells, and spicy smells brought back many memories of an oldfashioned Christmas. Hundreds of people attended as a result of excellent advertising in local and neighborhood newspapers. "The evening was well planned by the ward work director Mary Bybee. These plans included something for every age group—balloons and fish pond for the very young; a 'teenage' booth decorated in the gayest of Christmas colors offered ping-pong, darts, checkers, and soda pop. Delicious food, including old-fashioned hot scones and jam, was served all day, and at ''Santa's Sweet Shop,'' homemade bread was featured, as well as cakes, Christmas cookies, and sandwiches and candy., "This affair proved to be one of the most successful this Relief Society has ever attempted. It was most gratifying in that the whole ward seemed to participate and enter into the happy Christmas spirit. Many members of the stake attended this outstanding function." 390 NOTES FROM THE FIELD Corvallis Stake (Oregon) Relief Society Homemakers' "Fair Wear" October 24, 1964 Standing in front of a backdrop representing the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair, left to right: Lucile Hardman, First Counselor; Maxine Lee, Second Counselor; Sigrid Persons, President. Sister Persons reports: "The Relief Society members and one Priesthood member modeled their 'Fair Wear' at the first Homemakers' Fair held in the stake. Brother Leo Hall, who had made the sports coat he modeled, was a hit of the fashion show, together with his small daughter, who was wearing an outfit made by her mother. "The morning was spent in viewing demonstrations at eight different booths for fifteen-minute intervals. Represented were silk screen printing, driftwood arrangements, ribbon roses, flower arrangements, tincraft, gift wrapping, ceramics and pottery, and textile painting. "A display of items from The Relief Society Magazine was participated in by all the wards and, just for fun, there was a guessing contest and door prizes. A luncheon, featuring a three-tiered Fair cake, was served to about seventy-five members of the stake. We had wonderful cooperation and participation from all our wards, and all entered into the spirit of the Fair." 391 MAY 1965 Bavarian Mission (Germany), Munich and Nurnberg Districts Present Historic Relief Society Pageant, November 1964 In picture frames, left to right: Ursula Roggermeier, as Emmeline B. Wells; Thamara Krause, aS Clarissa S. Williams; Erna Schaefer as Louise Y. Robison; Lucia Seitz as Amy Brown Lyman, Fdeltraud Bertele as Belle S. Spafford; EdelWiedmann as Eliza R. Snow; Magdalena Gilch as Emma Hale Smith. Agnes S. Jacobs, Supervisor, Bavarian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The photo tells a most interesting story. 1 wonder if we realize just how far reaching The Relief Society Magazine can be. Sister Ingeborg Gildner, our Bavarian Mission Relief Society President, who cannot read English, was very intrigued with the picture entitled 'Hall of Fame' in the February 1964 issue of the Magazine. The story and picture were submitted by the Orem Seventh Ward, Orem Stake (Utah). Sister Gildner asked me if | would write and get a copy of the script. 1 did not "Then followed the arduous task of translating. We desired to use the pageant for the Saturday night entertainment at quarterly conference. Because of the distance in travel, the mission has been divided into two districts, one in the Nurnberg area and one in the Munich area. That meant that two speaking casts must prepare, along with two separate choral groups of Singing Mothers. Our sisters entered into the project with a great deal of enthusiasm, making costumes, memorizing scripts, rehearsal, etc. They wanted to perform just as well as their sisters in Zion. We were all so proud of them the night of their performance. The speaking, the singing, the background music, the staging—all were lovely and well done. This was a real treat for the German people because so very little has been translated about the women of the Church. | have sent copies to each of the German-speaking missions and copies to the German Branch in Salt Lake City, Utah. Our thanks now go to the Orem Seventh Ward, Orem Stake, and to the wonderful Relief Society Magazine." 392 WORK MEETING — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 7 — When Has the Gospel Been Taught? (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) For July 1965 Objective: To motivate practices within the home whereby all members of the family may be taught the principles of the gospel. INTRODUCTION The gospel of Jesus Christ was taught to Adam and Eve, who, in turn, taught its principles to their children. And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost (Moses 5:58). And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters (Jbid., 5:12). This lesson, however, will not be concerned with the historical aspect of gospel teaching, as the title might imply, but will discuss the ultimate goal of teaching, which is to produce change in the life of the learner. To know what one did not know before, to feel as one did not feel previously, and to act upon this new knowledge, are all factors in the learning process. This discussion, therefore, will be based upon the concept that the gospel has been taught only when its teachings have produced change in the life of the individual. THE TEACHING MOMENTS We read much; we listen to many gospel sermons; we attend numerous Church meetings: How may we know when we have "learned" the gospel? How may the mother teach the principles of the gospel most effectively? When will the child be most receptive to ideas and truths which the mother knows are fundamental,. And how may she know when the child has really ''learned" the teachings which she is endeavoring to teach. These are questions which concern each Latter-day 393 MAY 1965 Saint mother who accepts her part of the assignment given to parents by our Heavenly Father. They are also the concern of this lesson. In Deuteronomy 6:6-7 we find this relevant scripture: And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. This quotation indicates quite clearly that teaching need not be limited to a formal period of instruction nor restricted as to place. It implies that teaching moments occur throughout the day, whenever parents and children are together. Actually, the mother is teaching her children by her example, each day and each hour they are together. Example is a most effective teacher. That children imitate their parents is common knowledge. They tend to identify with the mother, who frequently may hear herself speak (sometimes unhappily so) through comments of her children. Yet, in addition to the general assimilation of gospel standards and attitudes through the influence of the home and the example of the mother, there are situations especially well adapted to the teaching of particular gospel principles. Some of these unscheduled situations which may create an atmosphere favorable to teaching and to learning are: 1. When a question is asked 2. When there is an infraction of a gospel standard 3. When there is a disputation 394 QUESTIONS CREATE TEACHING MOMENTS Perhaps no situation is more favorable to the teaching of a gospel principle than when a person asks a leading question. The mere fact that a question is asked, usually indicates a receptive mind. Many of the revelations given to the Prophet Joseph were in answer to questions about which he prayed earnestly. Jesus, the Master Teacher, frequently made his reply to questions the opportunity to introduce or to explain a gospel principle. Although mothers often may become annoyed at the incessant questioning of the pre-school child, many of his questions offer an excellent opportunity to teach, in a simple way, the basic truths of the gospel. Hear little children asking such questions: Why do we pray every day? Can't we ever see Heavenly Father? How do we know Heavenly Father loves us? Why do we die? How would you answer these questions? When children are very young, a favorable situation for gospel teaching may even be created by the mother. What gospel teaching might be introduced appropriately, yet intentionally, during the following occasions? 1. A ride through the countryside (children, five to ten years of age). 2. On hearing of the death of a friend or relative (children, seven to twelve years of age). The alert mother, however, will find plenty of natural situations when a gospel principle may be accepted and welcomed even by teenagers who might resent an artificially created situation, feeling that they are being "preached at." INFRACTION OF GOSPEL STANDARDS Often an infraction of a gospel standard may be the moment for effective teaching of that standard. Illustration: A junior high school girl came to school one morning wearing a very attractive wrist watch. As her friends admired it, one asked, "Is it your birthday, or something special?" "No, nothing special. I was in dad's upholstery shop yesterday and I found it under the cushion of a chair he is going to recover." -"But why didn't you tell your father so he could give it to the woman who owns the chair?" one companion asked. From another companion, "What did your mother say?" - The girl replied, shrugging her shoulders, "She didn't say anything. She just laughed when I said. 'Losers weepers, finders keepers.' So here it is." Although the mother's previous training of her daughter on the subject of honesty may have been lacking, this mother lost a golden opportunity to teach honesty when the watch was found. Suppose the mother had said.... (Complete this sentence with words which the mother might have said, but didn't.) Suggest three ways by which the mother might have met this situation, all in accordance with the principle of honesty. DISPUTATION—A TEACHING MOMENT The following family discussion illustrates, in a dramatic way, LESSON DEPARTMENT how conflicting opinions may create a teaching moment. Jim: (age thirteen) and Alice (age twelve) enter the living room arguing: Alice: "I'm sure it was twelve fish." Jim: "It wasn't twelve fish, it was twelve baskets." Alice: "Baskets of what?" Jim: "Good night, Alice, don't you know what? Bread—twelve baskets of bread left over." Alice: "Well, you don't need to be so smart. I forgot about the bread. I know there was something about twelve. Maybe it was four fish." Jim: "Or seven or eight—you'd better get the facts, my dear Alice." Alice: "TI will before I write." Mother: "Now, now, what is all this talk about?" Father: (lowering his paper) "A battle, I'd call it." ' Jim: "This little sister of mine, is pretty mixed up." Alice: "Mother, he thinks he's the 'brain' but he's not so sure of the facts, himself." Mother: "Alice, what IS this all about?" Alice: "It's an assignment for seminary. Brother Brown asked us_ to write a short paper on one of the miracles of the Savior, and I chose...." Jim: "One she doesn't know a thing about...." Father: "What miracle did you select, Alice?" Alice: "The miracle of the loaves and fishes." Mother: "The feeding of the five thousand." Father: "Well, what's the problem?" Jim: "She's off the beam, that's all. She's mixed up on the fish, bread, and baskets." Alice: "I'm not either. I only forgot about the left-over bread. There were about four fish." Father: "Well, daughter, we ought to be accurate. There were, as I remember, five fish." Mother: "As I remember it, dear, there weren't quite that many. Aren't you thinking of the five thousand people?" Father: "No, I think not." Here is a wonderful teaching moment! Right now. Will the 395 MAY 1965 mother be aware of it? Will she make use of it? She did. She said: Mother: "I suppose we should go to the source. Alice, will you bring in the Bible." Alice: "Yes, Mother, Ill get it." (She returns quickly with the Bible which she gives to the father.) Mother: "Listen, children, Father is going to read to us about a miracle of the Savior." Everyone becomes attentive, even the smaller children, as Father reads from Mark 6, verses 30-44, the miracle of the loaves and fishes. Jim: "You see, Allie, twelve baskets." Mother: "And we were all wrong about the fish. Suppose we start reading the scriptures in our Family Home Evening Program." Jim: "A good idea, it might help Allie out—especially!" Father: (still in the Book) "Five loaves—two fishes—twelve baskets full of the fragments and of the fishes." Question: What might have happened to this situation had the mother not recognized it as a teaching moment? PRAYER AS A TEACHING MOMENT We are all aware of the fact that praying together strengthens the family, but have you ever considered family prayer as a teaching moment? If, instead of using repetitive phrases, a parent prays for the individual needs of family members, expresses gratitude for the blessings of life, solicitude for the welfare of others, humility in asking for other blessings, the children may "experience" some of the most important of gospel teachings. Whether or not the children have "learned" from the experience of family prayer, may never fully be known to the par- 396 ents. Such comments as the following, however, expressed to Sunday School teachers by small children, indicate their reaction to the family prayer: Child: "We like our neighbors. My mother prays for Johnny nearly every day, because he is sick." Child: "We don't just ask Heavenly Father to give us things. We thank him, too, for all the things he has already given us." Still more convincing is the actual "doing" of a gospel teaching. Boy: (taking in garbage cans for neighbor) "I brought these cans in for you because Johnny is sick and I know he can't do it himself. But we pray for him every day." FAMILY HOME EVENING A TEACHING OPPORTUNITY With the introduction of the Family Home Evening Program throughout the Church in January 1965, gospel teaching in the home should be greatly strengthened. This program provides planned and scheduled moments for teaching. It may appear, at first glance, that the Family Home Evening manual is for families with small children only. A careful reading, however, will reveal suggestions to families with older children or where there are adults only. For example, on page 4, we find: "Even adults living alone can benefit from this exercise of thinking of the good qualities in someone with whom they are not getting along well." Many principles of the gospel may be taught in the home by example of the parents, by capturing the unscheduled teaching moments, by everyday living of gospel standards and by the scheduled and definite period of learning provided by the Family Home Evening. But a full understanding of the gospel also requires thoughtful and systematic study. The Family Home Evening Manual offers guidance to adults for this study. As stated in Lesson 1, the fundamental concern of the Family Home Evening Program is that all Church members be instructed more fully in the gospel doctrine that they may live in accordance with its principles. The following modern scripture indicates that it is a commandment that we do so. And I give unto you a commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D&C 88: 77-78). Man can, if obedient and of sufficient faith, receive such of these truths as will lead him to the celestial kingdom where, ultimately, he may comprehend all truth. LESSON DEPARTMENT SUMMARY Familiar to the point of triteness is the statement that "telling is not teaching." A child has not learned simply because he has been told, although he may have listened attentively. The gospel may be taught in the home by example, by making use of the teaching moments, through the Family Home Evening Program, and through other gospel study by adults. Only when the home utilizes these opportunities will it be fulfilling its spiritual obligation to the family. FOR DISCUSSION: Questions as they appear in the lesson, plus those introduced into the class period. FOR HOME DOING: Create (for small children) several teaching moment occasions and watch during the month for evidences of the results. Discuss with children (teenage children in the home) the incident of the girl who kept the wrist watch. Make use of their reactions. If desired, use the illustration of disputation as a teaching moment in your Family Home Evening. Let children dramatize the action, having father actually read the scripture indicated, relative to the miracle of feeding the five thousand. Room for Dreams Grace Barker Wilson Dreams need wider room to make them grow, An outward reach beyond the earth, Perhaps just space enough within a soul To bring them to their birth. 397 398 No Day Is Lost Rosa Lee Lloyd No day is ever lost If you have praised A friend or sung his song Or blessed a stranger At your door. No day is ever lost And unfulfilled If you have shared a grief Or helped a neighbor With a chore. No day is ever lost If you can soothe One anguished heart Or guide a sinking boat To reach the shore! The Mother Lael W. Hill How shall | My love deny To any child there is, Since my child is his Father's child And all my life is his? Whatever place | see his face A glow comes in my own, So | have smiled On many a child Who else would seem alone. Any child Is every child, His heritage divine; My love must run To every one, For every one is mine. HAWAIIAN TOURS April, May, June, October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; leather Cover — $5.25 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 5.......... Ons rene *,- Le 60 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 8..........1.20 TO THE CUMORAH PAGEANT AND THE NEW YORK WORLD'S FAIR BY BUS OR JET! Eight-day Air Tour - Leaves July 29th. All the splendor and wonder of the colorful Hill Cumorah Pageant with your own guide! Three exciting days in New York City, including tours of the Fair and tickets for 'Hello Dolly." Two days in Washington, D. C. Surprising low cost! Twenty-one Day Bus Tour - Leaves July 24th. This is the summer vacation you've dreamed about! See Winter Quarters, Carthage, Nauvoo, The Sacred Grove, Palmyra and all of those Church history sites with a competent guide. See the Hill Cumorah Pageant. Take in the World's Fair and the Mormon Pavilion! See Washington, D. C., and Williamsburg! MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 328-3161 Please send me full particulars on the following tour(s): MURDOCK Te TRAVEL Citys... State: Zip: R. S. May '65 BERR SRRS ERSTE TASSSSRS SSS STSSSSSSSSTSRSSRESSRERSER Teese eee HAWAIIAN SUMMER C Me PARADISE TOUR 15 days —June 26-July 11 ELECTRIC HAWAIIAN TOUR 17 days — July 23-August 8 HILL CUMORAH 22 days — July 24-August 14 Includes Black Hills Passion Play 26 days — July 20-August 14 OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES May 13 a 4 = to go to temple white glove Esther Ja I, _—_— sther James flours 460 7th Avenue 399 EYP = Pots and pans stay If it's electric, it's better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 28 days — July 11-August 7 16 days — July 24-August 8 Will be time for those who wish Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 10 Mrs. Anna Glackmyre Agee Brora, Minnesota 98 Mrs. Martha Jones Provo, Utah 97 Mrs. Olena M. Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lois Barton Whittaker Circleville, Utah 96 Mrs. Alice Collins Frost Ogden, Utah 9 Mrs. Mary Alice Anderson Farnsworth Menlo Park, California 93 Mrs. Emma Butler Maxfield Bakersfield, California Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Delta, Utah 9? Mrs. Minnie Bedell Banta Sacramento, California Mrs. Anna Mathild Garns Meadows American Falls, Idaho 9] Mrs. Elizabeth Barfuss Christensen Logan, Utah Mrs. Rebecca C. Miller Parowan, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Johnson Colvin Colorado City, Arizona Mrs. May Gates Rose Nielsen Roy, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Ellen Turner Tripp Burbank, California Mrs. Dora Maud White Whitehead Santa Monica, California Mrs. Ada Downs Holladay Tooele, Utah Mrs. Dora Moreland Ashland, Kentucky Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts Vernal, Utah Mrs. Ines Fillmore Ellmer Payson, Utah Mrs. Johanna Farstad Creston, British Columbia, Canada Mrs. Emma Bunderson Pugmire St. Charles, Idaho Mrs. Dorothy Kocherhans Reid Panguitch, Utah "Mrs. Hannah McLachlan Lyon Salt Lake City, Utah A Suggestion Iris W. Schow They say, ''Two rights cannot mend a wrong," And no doubt this is true; But try two rights when you have been wrong, And see how much they will do. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Science and Philosophy Hand in hand, used in the light of understanding, these two academic disciplines declare the glory of God! Deseret Book presents two new works — one by a scientist, one by a natural philosopher — that will add depth to your knowledge of the gospel. TRUTH, by a and by Revelation by Frank Salisbury $4.50. A distinguished biologist — especially prominent in the field of exobiology — gives his reasons for belief in the restored gospel. With the skill of a trained scientific mind he presents his evidence that science and religion are totally compatible. All truth is God's truth! THE GOSPEL: God, Manand Truth by David H. Yarn, Jr. $3.25 singling out for us the truths that have been held sacred by all whom God has chosen, through the ages, to know his will. A magnificent source book for group discussions. = DESERET BOOK COMPANY 5 44 Easi South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah = Phone: 328-8191 ww" Enclosed Please find $.......... Ec Check..........-: aS a a - oak = = Sa = cohiih e™ —O——EEE For items numbered 1 2 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Name 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 771 SO MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Residents of Utah, please include 34% sales tax. R. S. MAY '65 A brilliant intellect carefully examines God's relations with man.... 'Teemes Book; Money Order............ | have an account, please charge = The / 4AReIici Society Magazine Simmer Cotlett Lael W. Hill Summer declares uncountable small green leaves And stars with radiant eyes in the morning grasses; Yet if | whisper among them (soft as warm wind impresses) | love you... | love you... | love... You hear not my loves But the wings of uncountable bees that sing to clover And carry the heart of sweet from field to hive; Yet if you would listen beyond, you would know how I've Said always and only one name to the season... Lover, Listen to leaves. In movings of morning air, To flowering flight from meadows gilded and scented: Hear then, and have in their hum all days uncounted, Your name breathed low, my voice at your summer ear. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: The Bleumlisalp, Switzerland Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press The Grand Tetons, Wyoming, Photograph by Luoma Studios Dick Scopes Mary Scopes Because embers of It was With delight tha family have lived "ved in Ay arch lief So ety tralia, th Mieson Rj r scene (April SaW the nt cover ( COver) has ag e SI8Nifican to m Lake Dist Engi nd) € inside ¢, ONntispiece Picture (Easter Scanne Page Mes, by Jo fM h), and the poem Pictures 9 r beloveg "When Flow St Gethsemane "" by Would ik innie F, R 'NSon, are the very essence Breen q. Picted j Of Easter NSpireg the eqj. Sraphs by ister N Orial "Ss fficient to th Day," by green. | TN withi Mariann P. | neeg SO much ¢ Pendle y; apply that ich h bviously blesseq On the Pes nearb for ab er life. © God's ch dren," 5 hundred ye Rixta Werbe, toucheg me to the Core. There js NO virtue | desire to Cultivate Burnley, Lancashire 4S much 8S cha ity, Mrs Mary M. P er Thanks for the lovey Clearfieig Utah The layout of Color for th 4 dear Member fro The ¢o ing of ¢ azine each Rixta erbe, shoul Month is a rea event—notnn Could 2d the article itself be bette than ¢ April issue Each Pared. | Mention, = Poem a ch icle seemed be Spring, by Vera o'den, S designeg for me. He Story "s ate of Cheshire, En lan a eS Mind," by Lae} J. Littke is Outstanding. °ar verses Solace for rs. Zilla G. Packard @ whole Story of years of L ngele California ing, tea d ae Prayer; and ' Posal,"' Uriel Jenkin ~_ color p - graphs in he March Of the Sweetest Poems | have e a8azine breathtaking d so Salt Lak Many of th ach glow like Jewe] e article On England by Claire Noall Te Ward Magazine rep is specially fine. Thanks for the ex. One of the wards wh cellent Stories 3 © distilleg b uty to get th young Mothers f the p fe) athall's Story for th Bazine ang ° "A Doll for E arita"' ell Conceiveg Meetings, told MUCh she en bors of Ours ang Presents them truly one day she Was quite upset and "yMpathéticaty,; Katherine F. Larsen Picked it up. Suddenly She found the Mountain View, California answer to her Prob} i robiem, Nd since then e& minu he Magazin lama Convert the urch and find reads for Myself, | love th th agazin Someth to really look Poetry. Jt fills my It is wonderf forwar eivin ery mo! ¢ Many 8ifted Sisters writi especially Enjoy the handicrafts and, Or the Magazine. Of course Priceless lessons not Helen ° exclude th cip P Mrs, p. Hansen South Carolina West s Honoluty, Hawaii Charlotte, North i The Relief Society Magazine Volume 52 Number 6 June 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay 406 The University of the Home Harvey L. Taylor 411 An Apache in Our Home Ruth Peterson 432 Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening Luacine C. Fox 450 Annual Report for 1964 Hulda P. Young Fiction 416 When Upon Life's Billows Alice Gubler Sabin 425 Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 2 Shirley Thulin General Features 402 From Near and Far 422 Editorial: The 135th Annual General Church Conference 424 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 460 Notes From the Field 480 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 431 They Work With Words and Music 438 Nature's Many Blossoms Celia Luce 440 A Wishing Well for the Bride Winniefred S. Manwaring 441 The Bride in a Summer Setting 442 Feather Flowers RaNae Gledhill 444 Remember the Children Celia Bartholomew 445 A Place for Balls and Bats Mary Aagard 446 Boxes, Beautiful Boxes Peggy Tangren 448 Food with Foreign Tastes Fiorian H. Thayn Lesson Department - Previews for 1965-66 467 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 469 Visiting Teacher Message—Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 470 Work Meeting Lesson for August—The Family Counsels Together Alberta H. Christensen - 474 Literature—The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Bruce B. Clark Poetry 401 Summer Declares Lael W. Hill Excuse for Being, by Iris W. Schow, 410; Commencement, by Bernice Ames, 415; Summer Cloud, by Vesta Fairbairn, 421; After Overcast, by Beulah Huish Sadlier, 4380; A Woman's Way, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 430; Love-Seeded, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 439: Magnanimity, by Kathryn Kay, 476; Summer Morning, by Christine Lund Coles, 476; Above the Foothills, by Enola Chamberlin, 480. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. _— manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Lithday Congratuladions to Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1965 @ In this year of 1965, in the early summer, when the valleys of her homeland are green with meadows and adorned with a multitude of flowers, Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, observes her eighty-eighth birthday. The General Board of Relief Society and the members in all the stakes and missions of the Church send greetings to her on this occasion through the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. Sincerely spoken are words of praise and gratitude for her influence and her example—for the pattern of her devotion and for the adornment that she has given to the high callings of womanhood. Beautiful words of great significance have characterized her life—daughter, sweetheart, wife, mother, companion, Relief Society executive and teacher, mission mother, beloved friend and counselor. To all of these aspects of a woman's life, she has added luster and enduring radiance. For these qualities, and for her dear smiling face and her bright courage, the women of the Church express a humble gratitude and the hope that their own lives may become more useful, more dedicated, and more joyfully fulfilled by a contemplation and a remembering of the attitudes and the accomplishments of Sister McKay. In this year, and in the years to follow, when the family and The Family Home Evening are receiving a renewed and greatly implemented emphasis, it is pleasing to the women of the Church to consider some of the directive patterns which have characterized Sister McKay as a mother and a homemaker. Her children feel that they have been blessed by the faithfulness, the composure, the low voice, the orderly ways, the loving patience, the tender solicitude their mother has given them. A close friend of the family, in expressing her appreciation of Sister McKay, said: "In her quiet, friendly, and efficient way, this remarkable woman has practiced benevolence, charity, love, kindness, and consideration, and she has fostered the highest ideals among women." Beloved companion of President McKay since January 2, 1901, she has been the devoted and lovely "queen" of his home, and has shared his travels throughout the world. For birthdays, Mother's Days, on Christmases, and other special occasions, President McKay has composed eloquent and fittings tributes for Sister McKay. On their thirty-third wedding anniversary, he wrote: "Her education has enabled her to be a true helpmate; her congeniality and interest in my work, a pleasing companion; her charm and unselfishness, a lifelong sweetheart; her unbounded patience and intelligent insight into childhood, a most devoted mother." May the love and admiration which the women of the Church have for Emma Ray Riggs McKay be near her in the season of her birthday, and thereafter, and may the many blessings which she so richly deserves attend her and be with her family and with all her loved ones. Dr. Harvey L. Taylor Former Acting Chancellor, Unified Church School System Administrator of Church Schools THE ambition of most Latterday Saint parents is to have their children graduate from college. No sacrifice seems too great to insure the attainment of this goal. In working and planning toward this end, we often overlook the most important training center in the lives of young people—the home; or, at best, it is not recognized for its full potential as a source of learning opportunities. It is, therefore, well to remember that regardless of how magnificent and impressive our universities may be as to buildings, laboratories, auditoriums, stadiums, libraries, curriculums, and faculties, none equals the power and the influence to change the lives of men and women, both young and old, as does the University of the Home. Here is an institution into which one hundred per cent of the people matriculate, and from which one hundred per cent graduate with one of many kinds of degrees—while in all other universities less than fifty per cent of the people matriculate, and only ten per cent of those who do, graduate. Thus I do not hesitate to say that of all universities none has the training potential of the University of the Home. At best, other universities can only _— supplement, support, and_ strengthen the Home University, because here learning begins. Here habit patterns are formed which affect all learning procedures and _processes. Here both the physical and spiritual sides of each member of the family are recognized, and thus training procedures are es- tablished which are intended to develop both sides according to the needs, interest, capacity, and personality of each individual. Here all the basic urges common to every living soul can be recognized and brought into a working harmony. Here is the beginning of discipline designed to establish concepts of right and wrong, concepts of justice and_ honor, concepts of industry, service, and orderly conduct. The curriculum or course of study for the University of the Home must be chosen with great care and understanding. It must be related to the growth process of each individual. It must take into consideration individual differences—mental, physical, emotional, social, and spiritual. It must always challenge the best efforts of each member of the class, but should never belittle, frustrate, or discourage the learners. It should be built on the "you can" concept, on the "do-your-best"" concept, on the "family togetherness" concept. Now let us talk about the courses which should be taught in the University of the Home. I will make no attempt to list them in order of importance, mainly because each family will have its own concepts and ideas as to which is most important. The ones I will discuss, however, are basic courses and should be taken by all. Many special courses have merit and should be added to the basic courses so as best to serve the needs of each individual family. First, I name "Obedience and Respect for Law." This course THE UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME is a must if there are to be peace, order, and harmony in the home organization. Instruction should start early. It should be consistent and reasonable, but demanding, and_ should apply equally to all. Such a course should include training in obedience to the laws, rules, and regulations of the family organization, such as care of the home, care of personal possessions, respect for each other's rights, doing one's share, being on time for meals, use of good language when' speaking to one another, proper use of the family car, desirable hours to be home, correct use of television and radio, good study, and quiet hours. This course should also include training in respect and obedience for the laws of the school, the playground, the city, the state, and the nation. Members of the family class should be taught that through obedience to law come order and unity in the home and in all the world; that it is the guardian of all our rights and privileges; that it protects against injustice; that it keeps the strong from destroying the weak; that without law there could be no harmony in life, no government, no happiness, and no peace. All members of the family should have some part in establishing the rules and regulations that will govern the home. Then all should be expected to abide by these decisions. "Happy are the families," said Leonard Bacon, 'where the government of parents is the reign of affection, and the obedience of children the submission of love." Next, I suggest "Discipline and 407 JUNE 1965 Self-Control," with strong emphasis. All should be trained to understand that the _ undisciplined are handicapped in all their contacts and associations with others. George H. Brimhall once said: Oh, just to know that I am free And can command this complex me; To say "advance" and be obeyed, To meet an issue undismayed. Everyone needs the discipline that comes from having and meeting assignments and in sticking under pressure, in doing things not especially liked, such as having to "reach" for something, being involved with others in a good cause, working toward specific goals, staying with a task until it is not only done, but well done, making mistakes and then starting over again, and meeting deadlines. The curriculum should include training in "Health and Clean Living." This course will pay big dividends. It should include knowledge and care of the body, its complex parts and functions. Parents are best qualified to teach this course. It should include consideration of proper eating habits; training in the Word of Wisdom, obtaining adequate rest and sleep, in living the moral law, and in realizing the danger of pornographic pictures, vulgar and obscene stories and _ literature. THE curriculum also should include "Conduct and Manners." Everyone should know what is considered proper conduct under all conditions and circumstances. I have noticed a serious lack of training in manners, courtesy, and the social graces among 408 young and old alike. This is a responsibility of the Home University. Lessons should begin very early. Training should be consistent. There should be no lapse at any age level. If this kind of training could develop as a way of life, it would be natural and pleasing to all and would open many doors to acceptance often closed to those _ without such preparation. I strongly urge that emphasis be put on "Respect and Appreciation for the Work of Other Men's Hands and Brains." It is common knowledge that we have wanton desecration of parks, public buildings, library books, and works of art. Only recently, three boys (ages ten, eleven, and twelve) set fire to a school building simply because they did not like their teachers. 'Shortly after, several young men in their early teens completely destroyed a girls' camp, using the furniture for firewood, ripping open mattresses, and smashing the camp dishes. When caught and asked to account for their vandalism, they replied, '""We did it just for kicks." In this course, members of the family should be taught to appreciate the creation of all the works of man. They should be helped to understand what these many creations mean to us in our daily lives and that it is the responsibility of each generation to preserve these creations and to pass them on to others as received. "Service and Sharing One's Talents" is much needed. Teach the joy of doing for others without pay or hope of reward. Growth and happiness come by sharing that which we have and THE UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME are. It was Christ's teachings from foreign Countries throughthat "whosoever will be Chief oy the world. These People, ant"; and later he Said, "TnasOur color or Tace, are our brothers much as ye have done it unto one and sisters In the Priesthood and The Home University Should our love, understanding and fe]. Offer "Honor and the Value of a lowship. This view does not Good Name." Every Member of mean that J would recommend the family Class Should be taught intermarriage, but it does Mean that only men and women of full acceptance of them as memhonor will merit 4 place of Tebers of the Church, Spect and trust in the World; that All Should be taught love of men and women of honor will beauty in all its forms—in Speak the + th, accept no Nature, j; Color, and InN degsj Tibes, wi t cheat or Steal, wil] and al] Should also be taught love Protect the Weak 8ed, and of ideals a Integrit IS most will not Covet or take Ndue ad important that each be ta ght to vantag, Ove our Country, Which we Vv: of the class Should be taught that Also be Sure to teach "Courthard Work built America, that Ship and Preparation for Mar- | i | riage," Young People Should only Prevent Waste but bring se. Understand the Purpose of courtcurity. The inherent danger of Ship in all its Various Stages, also installment buying and the Purthe Purposes and Tesponsibilities Chase of things not needed, of Marriage and the obligations Should he carefully discusseq of Parenthood, [yn this the Home With all members of the family, University Must assume the maConomic Security jg One of the jor Fesponsibility for teaching the 8 5 0 ) S [su RN 3 2 IS} ey 5 ot adequate training in his economic 4 essings available to those who Tesponsibilities While he is stil] are faithfy] in this ordinance. Young, it js unlikely that he will Learning about temple ordiattain financja] independence nances and temple Matriage essential to his total] happiness. Should become Part of the regular one's fellow men Tegardless of dead, be given °Pportunity to ask Trace, sect, or creed, Latter-day Questions and to receive honest Saints need Special] training in answers, A common Practice jg acceptance of the Many new Conjust to assume that our young Vverts Coming into the Church People wil] Marry in the temple. JUNE 1965 This is a false assumption. They must be taught, encouraged, and shown by parental example that this sacred ordinance is the way of life for them. Instruction in the University of the Home must include '"Religion and Opportunity for Family Worship." Every child should be taught to pray at his mother's knee. Worship can be taught through family prayers in which all participate, through permitting each child frequent opportunity to give the blessing on the food, through the reading of sacred scriptures alone and in groups, through singing religious songs, through discussion of Church doctrines, through family attendance at religious services, and through administration in times of sickness. No university is complete without a good library. This is especially true of the University of the Home. In its library there should be something of interest for all, beginning with pictures for little children. In order to satisfy all learning needs, books, magazines, maps, charts, etc. Should be added as the children grow up. There should be provided reading nooks and corners with appropriate chairs and lights. Quiet should be maintained so as to encourage reading and learning without interruption. Francis Bacon is reported to have said, "If I might control the literature of the household, I would guarantee the well-being of the church and the state." In the Home University we also need provision for student 'activities. This provision should include regular "Family Home Evenings," stories for small children, trips with the family, opportunities for kitchen fun, for hobbies, for making gardens, for camping, for picnics and parties, for playing games, for listening to music, for pets, and for all kinds of activities that are essential to growth and that provide opportunity to build the family togetherness." And last, but certainly not least, we need an administration and a faculty. The father should be the president and the mother vice-president of the Home University. They, together with all the children, should comprise the faculty. Each would be a teacher in his own right. Each should set an example of what he would have the others become. The great University of the Home is unlike any other institution in all the world, and it is far more important. There is none which bears such great responsibility, none which has_ such opportunity, none where satisfactions can be greater. 'Family togetherness" is the challenge of our time. The big question is: Can we, will we meet this challenge? Excuse for Being Iris W. Schow Why should they be? Why are there dandelions? (So frail of stem, so lacking in perfume.) Ask any child for whom no tulip beckons, Or any bee, until the roses bloom. 410 Ruth Peterson In front: ™ 3 i Ramona Peterson; Erwin Rope; Michael Peterson. Standing at the back: Rebecca Peterson. "We're getting one! We're getting one!" my children were shouting as they greeted their father coming home from work. "We're getting one." He was smiling as he quietly said the words to me. We looked at each other gently, happily, as the children circled around us, dancing. "Yes, we're getting one," I answered, and felt tears upon my lashes. "Here is the letter," and as she said the words, Rebecca raised the letter high in the air. We gathered together in the living room, some of us on the reliable old sofa and some on the floor. I looked about me at our family, our dear family, happy together. I glanced at our elder daughter, Rebecca, her face thoughtful as she listened to her father. Next year she would be going to Junior High School, and would no longer be our little girl but our young lady. Ramona, little Mona, was listening to her father with rapt attention. Although not the youngest, she was the smallest, petite and dainty, with shining blonde braids. She always looked just right for hugging. Then Michael, just eight 411 JUNE 1965 years old, but looking like a tenyear-old, a large, awkward boy trying valiantly to keep up with his fast-growing body. My husband and I were indeed fortunate to have such precious children. Daddy was reading the letter from The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Indian Student Placement Program informing us that we were to go to the Reception Center on the Brigham Young University campus in Provo in two weeks to get our Indian student. As he finished reading, my husband looked at me, smiling, "I guess when five people want a dream to come true as much as we have, that dream just has to come true, it has no other alternative." In family prayer that evening, Ramona thanked Heavenly Father for arranging to send us an Indian boy, and "Please, please, help him to like us all." The time had come, we all agreed. We were ready for an Indian student to live with us. Preferably a young boy to share Michael's room. One hot July afternoon, two months before, I had opened the front door and saw two men on the doorstep, case workers of the Church, of course. We shook hands and they came in. We talked long and earnestly with each other. The case workers explained the Indian Student Placement Program. Indian children who were baptized members of the Church, who were doing well in school on the reservation, and who, with parental consent and encouragément, wished to come from the reservation to live with a Latter-day Saint family, a12 could become part of the Program. Their opportunity for growth and _ development in Church and school would be much greater than in the environment of reservation life. The case workers explained to me some of the problems that might occur and that would need to be met with patience, love, and understanding. They were trained social workers and would be available to help the student and the family at any time. I explained to the case workers that each member of our family was looking forward to having a new family member who would be loved, and with whom all our material and spiritual blessings could be shared. The interview was completed. As the men left our home, I had a prayer in my heart that all that would be decided would be for the best of all concerned. Then the letter had come! WE were all eager and happy, singing our favorite songs together as we traveled on a bright, warm September day to Provo. Finally the time had come. Here he was! A small, timid, nine-yearold Apache boy from Southern Arizona. As we all introduced ourselves to him, each child shook hands solemnly with him, and with my arms about his shoulders and Father picking up his suitcase, we went to the car. As my husband's and my eyes met, they became clouded with tears and we whispered to each _ other, "Why, if we could have gone to the reservation ourselves and chosen our own child, this one would have been the very one!" On the way home we drove through lovely Provo Canyon and stopped beside the stream to have our picnic lunch. We had many questions to ask Erwin, but we tried not to ask them all at once. The long ride all night from Arizona had been too much for the little fellow, and he slept most of the way into Salt Lake City. With eagerness, we all showed Erwin through our home and then to the room he would share with Michael. We showed him his bed, newly purchased and the bedspread I had made for it, just like Michael's. We showed him his chest of drawers, and I helped him unpack his articles of clothing and put them in the drawers. Michael then showed him the toys and the rest of the family went to the kitchen to prepare dinner. We were all having difficulty understanding him, for he spoke low and his vocabulary and sentence structure were limited. In questioning him, we learned that he spoke Apache at home and with his friends, and spoke English only in school. We spoke slowly to him, trying to choose simple words that we hoped he would understand. Each day was interesting, and each day Erwin learned from us and we learned from him. The principal and teachers at the school were most understanding and were happy to have him. At recess, many children crowded around Erwin, to learn his name and to welcome him into their childhood associations. At the ward it was the same, the members were interested in our new family member, wishing to be friends with him. Some time later, at the invitation of the bishop we took the AN APACHE IN OUR HOME family to the ward to see the movie, '""The Windows of Heaven," depicting a part of the life of President Lorenzo Snow. When Lorenzo Snow first was shown on the screen,'Erwin leaned over to me and whispered, '"Is_ that Jesus?" When we arrived home after the movie, we went to the bookcase and brought out several of the children's books about Jesus. What a lovely time the children had, taking turns, telling and showing Erwin what they knew and understood about the Christ. One Sunday after sacrament meeting, while riding home in the car, Erwin asked out loud to no one in particular, "Why do the grown people all shake hands and call each other brother and sister? They aren't all really brothers and sisters, are they?" I repressed the desire in myself to answer the question and let the children answer. From experience, I found that they actually gave better answers to his questions than I did. He understood them better, and in answering the children had to search their own understanding for the explanations. We wondered one evening as we were preparing to attend a Family Night Concert of the Utah Symphony, just how Erwin would respond to such a program. It was his first visit to the Tabernacle, so we went early to show him the building and explain its history. When the concert began, he didn't move a muscle. He sat enthralled. When we were driving home, he was strangely silent, so the children asked him how he liked the concert. "That was 413 JUNE 1965 real music, wasn't it? I wish I could sit right in the middle of all those people making the music. What were all those things the people had?" He was asking about the instruments. The only instruments he had really seen were a guitar and a piano. So when we arrived home, without any word to them from us, the children went to the bookcase and found the books on music and instruments and soon had their heads together in a little conference. As the hour was late, my husband and I went to bed, knowing that as soon as they had exhausted their knowledge of the subject matter under discussion, the children would follow. How Erwin rolled and laughed in the first heavy snowfall. His excitement knew no bounds as he watched his first snowman assume shape in our front yard. How thrilled he was when a neighbor asked that Michael and he assume the responsibility of shoveling their walks during the winter. When Erwin brought his first earned money to show me, we sat down together, and I told him about tithing. It was difficult for him to understand, just as difficult as it was for him to understand why he should go hungry on Fast Day. After nine months with a Fast Day each month, and tithing payments, I am still not sure that he understands why he is following these commandments, but I feel that through obedienee he will come to understand. In reviewing the past nine months, many things come to mind, especially the word, completeness. We feel our family is complete. Many problems were 414 overcome and many rewarding experiences have been shared. Although Erwin was to have been in the third grade on the reservation (the grade in which he was placed in the school here) he was doing schoolwork on a first-grade level. This meant much study at home with me, as at first he was not able to study independently. Often he would become despondent and angry at himself that he could not comprehend better, that he could not learn faster. ERWwIN was an obedient boy, always finishing his tasks quickly, always dressed and ready to go, always eager to learn from new experiences. But for awhile, when I tucked him into bed at night, I could see tears in his eyes and knew that he was thinking of home. Then I would sit on his bed, take him into my arms, and talk to him about his home and what was happening to him, and then sing to him the lullaby I have sung to each of my children through the years. I was continually amazed at the willingness of the children to share everything they had with Erwin, their toys, their books, their friends, and most important of all, they shared their time and talents. They taught him there were sO many more interesting things to do than to sit and watch TV. They taught him there was so much more beautiful music than rock-and-roll. They listened eagerly to him when he talked about his home and life in Arizona. As time went on, we realized that Erwin was working hard to catch up to his age group in school, he needed something that he could personally do well. After seeing a group of Indians performing Indian dances, we made a very beautiful feathered Indian dancing costume and gave it to Erwin for his birthday. We purchased and borrowed from the library, books on Indian culture and lore and taught Erwin some Indian dances. Then came the day when his school teacher asked him to dance for the class and his Cub Scout den mother asked him to dance for the pack meeting. As a family, we researched and wrote a little program which explained the various dances. I made costumes for each of the children and others for Erwin for special dances such as the Scalp Dance and the Buffalo Dance. We made a large Indian War drum and some shields. We had lots of fun together and learned so much. Erwin become interested in his AN APACHE IN OUR HOME and the desire to read became of prime interest to him. Erwin will be going back to the reservation in a week. Each one of us has an ache in his heart that won't go away until Erwin returns to us in the fall. Grandparents, cousins, neighborhood playmates, Cub Scouts, Sunday School and Primary teachers, and many others will miss Erwin. We know that the Church plan is the best. Erwin needs to return to renew his family ties and kinship with his people. They will be amazed at his growth—physically, intellectually, and _ spiritually. I am going to make a prediction. This fall, just before school starts, Father, Mother, Rebecca, "Ramona, and Michael will be waiting on the campus of Brigham Young University, and as they see the familiar figure with the broad smile, flashing eyes, and quick step, they will all call people. He asked for Indian out in unison, "Here comes books at the library and at school Erwin!" Commencement Bernice Ames The years in him Make their sudden accumulation Under the tassel, under the robe And he is ready to face a beginning Which will grow from this small ending. The ceremony A gesture our eyes accept, Conditions the empty space As he removes his need of us. His eyes anchor in distance As we focus this moment Through mirror on film. "Let no commerce Interfere with conscience, amen." Words of other men grow in him As he rises into The challenge scrolled on paper. 415 fi Alice Gubler Sabin @ I'll never forget the time that Aunt Lou got canned. Father says canned isn't the right way to say it. He says she was dismissed. But Aunt Lou insists she was out and out canned, fired that is. We had finished our evening meal and were putting the last of the dishes away when our bell rang. Mother opened the door and there stood Aunt Lou, her face flushed pinker than the suit she was wearing. "Elaine!" she stormed, "I'm a washout. A flop. A failure!" "Sounds _ perfectly _ terrible," Mother said with mock seriousness. "Come in and tell us how you figured that out." 'Father put down his newspaper. "Hi, Sis." "Clint," she choked, "I could just die. I got canned today!" 416 ''Canned!"' Mother and Father both spoke at once. "Yes, canned. Fired, and I'm through. My whole life is washed down the drain."' Her chin trembled as she spoke, and tears threatened to fall. Nancy, Craig, and I stood watching her in wonderment. Mother said, "You children run out and put the garden tools away." "T haven't wiped the cupboards ~ around the sink yet," I said. "All right, Judy. Finish up and then go and help Nancy and Craig." They didn't have a good excuse for not going out, as I did. "T could just as well have lived the rest of my life without this happening to me," Aunt Lou lamented. "I can't understand. After working for fifteen years and loving it, to think I'd land in a spot where they'd fire me!" A spot is exactly what father had called it, when Aunt Lou took that job. Nobody had wanted her to go to work for those insurance brokers, especially her husband Uncle Si. She could have worked forever in the news office, if his company hadn't transferred him; but they did, and, of course, Aunt Lou moved away. You should have heard the folks at the news office lament when she served notice. After fifteen years I guess they thought she was an office fixture. She was mighty popular. Everyone loved her, and it looked as if the place would fold if she left; but it didn't. They hired someone else. Then a funny thing happened. Uncle Si was transferred right back here again. That's when Aunt Lou took this insurance job. She said with Kenny in dental school, they could use an extra pay check. That's when she had started to be a career girl in the first place—when her boys and girls began to go off to college and on missions. And now, after only two months in insurance she was canned. Mother and father were pretty serious now. They were sitting on the sofa, one on each side of her. I could hear her telling them how hard she had tried to learn the details of her new job. How much she had put into it, and still something went wrong. "Y'm washed up. Do you understand? I'm a failure. Can you imagine what it feels like to WHEN UPON LIFE'S BILLOWS be a failure?" She put her hands over her face and sobbed like a little girl. She really isn't very big, you know. I felt real sorry for her. I knew exactly how she felt. I remember once when I was a failure. It was terrible. It was when I had to make a poster for school and everyone laughed at it. The boy who sat behind me had said, "Judy, for an artist, you are a failure."" My life was blighted. I wanted to go comfort Aunt Lou. I wanted to tell her that success sometimes comes right after failure, because it did with me. The very next week, when my piano teacher had a recital, she reserved my number for the last because she said it was the most polished. She said my performance was a real success. Aunt Lou was talking about something now that I didn't understand. The word was senility. Her supervisor had said it was harder to learn new things when senility was beginning to set in. Mother said "Humph!" and _ father roared with laughter. Aunt Lou was on the defense. "It is not funny, Clint. It is serious. Nobody wants me because I'm too old. That's the real reason I got canned. They said a younger person would take to the countless details faster. They couldn't spend any more time trying to break me in." She looked totally crushed. "They became very gentle and kind when they handed me my pay check. 'Don't be discouraged, Lou. You have not failed. You weren't cut out for this job, that's all. You'll find a_ spot somewhere, where you will fit, we know. Goodbye now. Drop in 417 JUNE 1965 and see us sometime. We'll want to know how you get along.' I felt like an old horse being turned out to pasture." It was hard for me to keep polishing cupboards. I wanted to run into the living room, throw my arms around her and tell her that even if she did have senility, whatever it was, we loved her. She sat staring miserably at the floor. "I have never tasted the bitterness of defeat before. I've always had faith in myself, that I could do anything I wanted to if I tried hard enough. My self-confidence is completely shaken. I won't have the courage to try again." Her heavy sob was almost a moan. Father looked stern. "I suppose you are the first person to have ever been dismissed from a job." She hesitated. "I can't think of anyone right now." "Of course you can't," Mother said. "People are too prone to think they are the only ones who have troubles. What about Mr. Beahm next door? He lost one job after another until the employment office urged him to take a special training course. Look at him now. One of the main cogs in the wheel with his company." Father said, 'If everyone in our country who had been dismissed from a job refused to try again, we would all be swept out to sea under a tide of unemployment." "But most of the people you have in mind are younger than I. I am being washed up just a few years before retirement age. My career is ending on a down beat, leaving me forever smarting under the whip of being canned." 418 Father said, '"'You must be a tottering fifty-six. Look, Sis, when you fall down, you can't just lie there. You have to get lipy Mother said, "It's no use to tell you to forget it. You're going to brood all night anyway. But there's one nice thing about it. You don't have to go to work tomorrow. You'll be free to visit with me and to see some. Friends." Mother is very practical. She can make good use of any situation. A Then Aunt Lou said forlornly, "Sweet are the uses of adversity. I may as well go along." Mother looked as if she had scored a home run. Wearily Aunt Lou arose. "It's time I was at home fixing Si's dinner. I must be going." "Tl pick you up at 1:30 tomorrow," Mother said. "Tl be ready,' Aunt Lou replied. The next day Father took Nancy and Craig to the ranch with him to help tie grain sacks. Mother had some peaches to put up and I stayed to help her. By pushing, we were through by noon. After lunch I brushed my hair until it was soft as silk, and put on my yellow tissue gingham. Mother looked surprised to see me dressed up. "Judy, you look fresh as a flower. Would you like to come along with me and Aunt Lou this afterncon?" I was hoping she would ask. When I was little she used to take me with her when she made visits. I loved to go with her to see her friends. I had always liked older people. When we picked Aunt Lou up she appeared tired. She got into the car and sat down with a sigh. There were shadows around her eyes. She apparently hadn't slept the whole night through. If mother noticed it she didn't let on. "How long has it been since you've been to see Sister Karr?" Mother asked. "Years," Aunt Lou confessed. "I know she lives alone, and I've always meant to go, but haven't. I always speak to her at church on Sundays." We whisked around a few corners and stopped under the shade of a weeping birch alongside a white picket fence. Aunt Lou brightened. "What a pretty yard." "Yes, Sister Karr keeps it up herself."' We walked past tall blue spikes of delphiniums and masses of painted daisies. The garden was a medley of color. A movement on the roof of the house attracted our gaze. It was Sister Karr, scrambling down over the shingles to reach the ladder. "What in the world are you up to?" Mother demanded. WHEN UPON LIFE'S BILLOWS Sister Karr paused on the second round of the ladder to push her hair back from her face. "I'm fixing my roof. It leaked a bit when it rained the other night." "You should not climb up on the house!" Mother scolded. "Why didn't you call us. Clint would be happy to fix it for you." » "No," she said firmly, climbing — to the ground. "I'm perfectly capable of doing it myself." I 'had always enjoyed running errands for mother to Sister Karr's place. She was a spunky little woman. She used to tell me about the trees in her yard. She brought them with her when she moved from Idaho to Washington years ago. She had many kinds and each one had a sentimental value. She had poured the cement to make the stepping stones and walks in her garden, and had done a lot of the remodeling of the house herself. "Come in and sit down." She held open the screen. "T'll fix us a cool drink." We sank into deep velvet chairs. The living room was furnished with treasures from the past. She brought a pitcher of cold grape juice. I knew she had prepared it herself from the Concords that grew on her back fence. "We are in luck to find you at home," Mother said. "I'm glad to be home," she answered. "I've so much to do here, I really don't want to go back to work." "Work!" Aunt Lou almost choked on the word. "Sister Karr has been living in with an old couple, taking care of them," Mother explained. 419 JUNE 1965 Sister Karr sat down with a sigh. "I'm glad their young ones took them home with them. They were a real care. Tried my patience some." "How old were they?" Aunt Lou ventured. "Both in their seventies. Now I know the next question you're thinking. I'm eighty-two. Young woman, when you've lived as long as I have, you'll discover years don't regulate your age. It's how interested you are in life." If that's how age was gauged, one could see in a glance Sister Karr would never grow old. There were family group sheets on her desk that she had been working on, and a hooked rug underway in the next room. And I knew she was always baking good things for folks who were ill. She had brought me some cup cakes with pink icing on them when I had my arm fm splints. Aunt Lou's eyes twinkled. "We'll see you at Relief Society Tuesday morning, then, if you're not working." "T'll be there,' Sister Karr smiled. Mother says if you don't visit too long, folks will always want you to come again. Getting into the car she said, ""We're going to see Jeanne Douglas next."' Jeanne met us at the door. She looked as though she had just stepped out of a jewel case. And that's almost how it was. She smiled into our eyes as_ she greeted us. An oil painting of a mountain and autumn trees hung above her fireplace. It was the sort of a picure that draws you into it. Aunt Lou spoke, "I have never seen a painting more real." 420 "Thank you." Jeanne looked pleased. "Your name is in the corner. Have you always painted?" Aunt Lou asked. "No. Only for about five years. I didn't try until after my sixtieth birthday." "Why did you wait until then?" "Too busy, I thought. Suddenly I realized I had reached an enviable age where I could do as I pleased. I was no longer under the discipline of childhood, the torture of adolescence, the uncertainty of youth, and my family was grown and gone. So I enrolled in an art class. There I found a lot of other folks, like myself, fulfilling belated dreams." Aunt Lou brightened like a rose bathed in dew. We admired other paintings of hers and visited quite awhile. Mother wanted to call on Sister Hilton last. She has been in a wheel chair ever since I can remember. You never think of it when you're around her. She is so cheerful. "Come in," she called. Gaily when Mother knocked. She was knitting a soft blue sweater. She reached out and gave me a hug, then squeezed Mother's and Aunt Lou's hands. My eyes lit on a slim little book with delicate flowers on its jacket. "Oh, Sister Hilton!" I cried, "This is your new book of poems, isn't it!"' "Yes," she smiled. "You may look at it if you wish." Did I ever wish! Sister Hilton and I were real buddies. I had to run to her often with exciting tales of school. Mother would lll send me when she had a jar of jelly or some fresh rolls for her. Once, when I had a cricket in a little red box to take to "show and tell'? At school, she wrote a funny little poem about it for me. She has written poems for Church publications and women's magazines. She says they bring in enough money to buy yardage to make pretty things for her great-grandchildren. As I looked at the book, the others visited. Sister Hilton told them about an old folks party she had attended. She said there were folks there from their middle fifties to ninety-three. "That ninety-three-year-old youngster was the liveliest of them all. He danced every set, but the one he sat out with me. 'Look,' he said, pointing to the exhausted middleagers sitting out, 'just look at them, sitting around getting old.'" She chuckled. WHEN UPON LIFE'S BILLOWS We were all three pretty gay on our way home. Aunt Lou sang, "When upon life's billows you are tempest tossed." Mother and I joined in on, "when you are discouraged thinking all is lost." We sang all the way home. Aunt Lou got out at her house. "Thanks, Elaine and Judy, for this visiting," she said, "I have made an important discovery. I belong to an especially privileged group bordering on the golden years, filled with golden opportunities." She had a dreamy, faraway look. "There are things I've always wanted to do. Why not do them now?" The next day she called at the publishing office of our local farm magazine. That was a year ago. Do you know what she is doing today. She has just been advanced to editor of the home section of the magazine. Summer Cloud Vesta Fairbairn Out of the north a wisp of white smoke blew Over the hill, over the tops of pines, Until it grew And gathered into a cloud, A single cloud drifting Lonely in the immense clear blue lake of sky High Above the pines, the firs, The incense cedars, the mountain oaks, Drifting and lifting On an irresponsible wind, Until It disappears like magic, Sifting Away, invisible, Leaving the unshadowed mountain, The many greens of trees, And the bright day Once again To the authority of the crested jay, The bossy, beautiful, blue, blue jay. 421 EDITORIAL @ The Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1965, commMemorating on Tuesday the 135th anniversary of the organization of the Church, The Sabbath morning session was without question the most widely disseminated of any Conference jn the history of general sessions of conference and offered words of greeting at two meetings, Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay attended conference with President McKay. The opening address of President McKay, eneral Conference President Hugh B. Brown declared that the Church established by Christ upon the earth was the forerunner and prototype of the restoration: Man's period of earth life is but one stage in the eternal progressive journey of the soul. Birth and death do not mark the beginning nor the end of individual existence. The spirits of all men lived as intelligent beings enjoying the right of choice and free agency before they were born in the flesh. Earth life is for the development and training of the sons of men under the direction and supervision of the Divine Father through his Son, Jesus the Christ. Here we have an opportunity to meet opposition, to test our strength, to combat and overcome evil and thereby prepare for future development throughout the eternities. President N. Eldon Tanner emphasized the encouraging and uplifting blessings which so abundantly inspire the families which faithfully observe the Home Evening: The Family Home Evening... Gives the parents an opportunity to get better acquainted with their children, to know what they are thinking, what they believe, and what is right.... They are taught that we are the children of God, and that as His children we have that spark of divinity in us which makes it possible for us to reach immortal heights by living according to the teachings of the gospel.... Families throughout the Church are being taught these things, and they are taught to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and to do good to all men. They are also taught that if there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, to seek after these things... The closing message of President McKay was marked by deep sincerity and spiritual appeal to the saints throughout the world: ' The whole purpose of the organization of this great Church, so complete, so perfect, is to bless the individual.... God bless you, my dear fellow workers, you General Authorities, stake presidencies, bishoprics, every officer and teacher throughout the land—every member! Irene Kar, daughter of a Persian physician-father and German opera singer-mother, received an award as outstanding Foreign Woman Student of the year 1964 at the University of Utah. Miss Kar, born in Tubingen, Germany, was attending the University at Geneva, Switzerland, when she heard the gospel. It was what her soul had been seeking for years. Now working for her Master's Degree, she speaks flawless English, French, and German, without accent. She plays several musical instruments, sings, and is an exquisite dancer. She has been a stake missionary for a year and a half. Mrs. Fiore Latini, Executive Director of the New Mexico Dairy Council and State Manager of the American Dairy Association, is believed to be the only woman in the United States to hold such key dairy council and A. D. A. Positions simultaneously. She has also been publicity chairman of the Public Relations Society of America. With a Master's Degree in nutrition, she travels 100,000 miles a year, in New Mexico, Colorado, and Texas, speaking on the value of proper nutrition. Vesta P. Crawford, Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, re-~ ceived in April from Ann Hafen, President of the Utah State Poetry Society, the Norma Hafen award for a collection of her poems, Short Grass Woman. The poems will be published by the Society as part of the award. 424 Marie Syrkin, veteran Zionist worker, has written a_ well-received book, Golda Meir: Woman with a Cause, about ''our Golda,'' as Israelis call her. In 1947, Mrs. Meir negotiated in Cyprus for the release of interned Jewish children. She successfully solicited great sums of money from Jewish philanthropists on the eve of Israeli's independence. She was Israeli's first Minister to Moscow, where she went to a synagogue, and "30,000 Jews sprang up from nowhere' to follow her. At fifty-eight, she became Israeli's Foreign Minister, the only woman in the Western World to receive such political eminence. Still in this post at sixty-six, she is described as a ''woman of unadorned modesty and unwavering strength... Like a woman out of the Bible.'"' Miss Lorna Lockwood became last January the first woman in the United States to be named chief justice of a state supreme court, when she was named Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Arizona. Already she had served with distinction as a member of the Arizona House of Representatives, Assistant Attorney General of the State, a judge of the Maricopa County Superior Court, and a justice of the Arizona Supreme Court. Among thirty-five books listed, from which the National Book Awards were to be chosen, only one was authored by a woman: Oysters of Locmareaquer, by Eleanor Clark. oe Chapter 2 LAR SIAS SSS ew Ui ee Se Around Synopsis: Joan Morgan, a nurse, has left her position at Elmdale Hospital because of an emotional involvement and grief over the death of a young patient. She obtains employment as superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital and meets the administrator mitory is a young nurse Kathy Kirk. @ As Joan's alarm sounded, she sat up, her head already full of the words she had chosen to use in reprimanding Kathy. But the words would have to wait. Kathy was gone. Her bed was made smooth and tidy, and there was no sign of the tired young nurse of the night before. Joan tried to focus all her thoughts. Surely she hadn't slept that soundly. She hadn't heard a sound, hadn't been conscious of a, Dr. Niles. Her roommate in the dormovement. How had Kathy managed to slip out so quietly? She would ask her at the earliest opportunity, along with some other questions that had bothered her, such as why Kathy had been able to get by with so much, with such a stern administrator as Doctor Niles. When Joan entered the cafeteria, she felt the bristle of the atmosphere. Conversations hung unfinished and, although there 425 er Heart Shirley Thulin JUNE 1965 were only a few nurses and doctors in the room, Joan knew that she had been the subject of the discussion. She had expected to be talked about. It was only natural that they would all discuss her, especially since she was so different from what the former superintendent had been. She took a tray and walked toward the serving counter without looking at anyone. Then Kathy called her name, and she felt a mixture of anger and relief. She turned toward the corner table and saw that Kathy was already moving her dishes over to make room for her. "Come and meet Doctor Desmond," Kathy invited. The invitation annoyed Joan. Who did Kathy think she was... What right did she?... But Joan found herself seated at the table telling Kathy she had already met the doctor. "Ves, we've met," Doctor Desmond said, and though he was talking to Kathy, he was looking at Joan. "You are an early riser," Joan said to Kathy, ignoring his remark, and turning away from him. "Yep chickens." "I didn't hear your alarm." "Kathy doesn't need an alarm... She has an automatic built-in arrangement that tells her she must be here by five if she wants to have breakfast with me." Kathy reddened, but Doctor Desmond pretended not to notice. He just gathered up his dishes, placed them on his tray, and slid his chair back. "T'll be in the chart room in about a halfhour, Miss Morgan. There are up with the 426 some things I'd like to go over with you if it would be convenient." He looked directly at Joan and his eyes were teasing again. Then he got up and left. "Oh, that man!" Kathy's mouth was half smiling, but her eyes were not. '""He makes me so mad. Sometimes he is so serious and so sincere, and then in the very next breath...." "Do you like him?" "More than I should, I guess. Every nurse in the hospital does, though." "Does he take you out?" "Are you kidding? He doesn't take anyone out. He's so tied to the hospital. He seldom leaves the place." "Kathy, about last night...." "Oh, my goodness.... Miss Jackson goes off in five minutes.... Take my tray over will you? Thanks," and she was gone. JoaN was angered, and yet she was amused. This girl is really going to be a handful, she thought. She was almost through with her toast and juice when David came towards her with his tray. He paused and then went past her to the next table. For just a moment, Joan almost invited him to sit with her, but she didn't. She only said hello in response to his greeting, and then, toast unfinished, she got up and left. | Joan liked early mornings in the hospital best. Everything seemed to have a new beginning, even life itself, for it seemed to her that the suffering which continued all night subsided a little with the new day, and Joan felt a newness to her life, too, today, as she went from room to room. She introduced herself to each patient and mentally went over the charts she had studied very carefully. She felt she must know each person, for it was her belief that each illness went beyond the doctor's diagnosis, beyond the medicine, and the treatments. And yet, how could she keep herself from being too involved, if she knew too much about them? She didn't have an answer to that. Joan had purposely evaded going to room 212 as long as she could. When she could postpone it no longer, she stepped inside and walked over to the window. She was about to pull the shade when a young voice stopped her. "Leave it shut." "Why, Tom? Will leaving the room dark help anything?" "Will opening it help?" Tom's voice was deep with the discouragement and the hopelessness that Joan was used to. She pulled the string, letting the early morning sun leap into the room. When Tom turned his face to the wall she walked over to his bed. "Tom, I'm Miss Morgan, the new superintendent. Tum around here and let's get acquainted. Come on, let's take a look at you." "Go away. There have been too many people looking at me." "Well, if we're going to make you well, we have to.. - i "Going to make me well... That's real funny." "You can get well." How very many times had she said those same words before, she wondered. How many times, knowing that the patient would never walk again, or see again... "You may RING AROUND HER HEART not be like you were, but you can get well." "Oh, why don't you go take a pulse or something and leave me alone?" i "T']] go, young man, but not before I've said a few things. You think you're pretty bad off. Well, I've seen a lot worse... I've known young boys who not only couldn't walk, they couldn't even move from their chin down. You have your arms, Tom. You have your eyes, and you should start counting your blessings." "Blessings?" Tom turned to the wall again and Joan left with his sobs filling her and making her remember... - Ir was nearly noon when she went into the chart room and sat down to check the charts again. "Well, I had about given you up." Dr. Desmond's voice startled her, and she had an excuse partly voiced before she thought better of it. "T got here when T could," she said. "Tf I told the other nurses I wanted to see them in a halfhour, they'd be here in ten minutes." Joan looked at him. His eyes were teasing, but she was determined not to let him know how much it pleased her. She kept her voice very even and very impersonal. "I'm not the other nurses," she told him. "But you are a woman... A very attractive one, too." "What charts were you so concerned about?" "Oh, I see... You are playing the game called 'be hard to please.' Well, that will be different." 427 JUNE 1965 "Doctor Desmond, I am too busy to play games. Now, about those charts." Doctor Desmond studied Joan for a moment and then went to the huge file. He spun it around with his index finger poised. "Johnson in 103," he said, not looking up, "has just been told of the seriousness of her condition. She will need extra attention today, especially right after visiting hours. And the young fellow in 212, I want you to talk with him and see if you can get anywhere." "T've just come from there. He's feeling sorry for himself. I told him to stop acting like a baby and start thinking of things he can do." "You told him what?" "Up until now, he's been thinking of all the things he can't do. Right? Like not being able to ski anymore, not being able to go to the games, or dances...." "Miss Morgan, Tom isn't that kind of a kid. He's not worried about dancing. He's worried about not being able to take care of his mother and the kids. He's not afraid of never being able to ski again, but he is afraid the farm and everything they've worked for since his father's death...." Doctor Desmond looked at Joan and there was no trace of light-hearted pleasantries within his eyes now. They were clear and steady and piercing. "Miss Morgan, I've heard of nurses like you. Hard.... No heart.... I just hope you haven't undone all that it has taken us weeks...." He left then. With firm steps and with no backward glance, he left. 428 Joan sat for quite a while, feeling a little numb. She kept hearing the words... Hard... No heart. Well, wasn't that what she wanted them to think about her? Wasn't that her new armor? Joan finished with her charts, and as she stepped out of the room, she saw Kathy hurrying down the hall. Now would be a good time to set her straight on a few things, since she was just going off duty. When she had only gone a few steps in Kathy's direction, someone called her. It was Doctor Niles. "Miss Morgan, I want to talk to you." "Oh, Doctor Niles. I have something to talk to you about, too." "Come with me to my office." Joan fell in with his long strides and a strange delight came over her. It was nice to walk along beside him. And she was pleased with herself when she caught sight of the expression on several of the nurses' faces. Was it surprise she could see registered there? Was it envy? Or perhaps a little of both? "Sit here, Miss Morgan." Doctor Niles went around to the other side of his desk and Joan tried to see his face. His voice was a bit stern, but she felt if she could see his eyes, she could tell for sure. "I understand you had a talk with young Tom Aines." "Yes, Sir, I did." "Would you mind telling me what was said?" "Why, I told him that... Well, that he should stop thinking of the things he isn't able to do, and begin trying to get well." "You know, of course, that we are all very concerned with this boy." "Yes, Sir, I know, and it is my belief that you have all been coddling him. I feel that he needs a bit of a jolt.... Something to make him think...." "I understand that sort of method works in a lot of cases, but Doctor Desmond is Tom's doctor, and he feels that Tom is the sort of fellow who needs...." "Who needs to be_ babied? Well, he's wrong, Doctor Niles. He's very wrong." Joan got up from the chair. "Miss Morgan, he may or may not be wrong, but he's nevertheless the doctor." Joan felt her face grow hot. She knew she had been very forward. She had been taught always to respect a doctor's superior position, but in the small hospital, the doctors had been, for the most part, her lifelong school chums, and she had been treated almost as an equal. "Yes, Sir," she said, and turned to leave, but Doctor Niles stopped her. "Wait. I.... What was it you wanted to talk to me about?" Joan looked into his eyes now, and they didn't tell her a thing. They were a soft gray, as they had been the time he smiled at her, but he wasn't smiling. "I RING AROUND HER HEART only wanted to ask about Kathy. She...." "Oh, yes, Kathy. She's my niece, you know. Has she been giving you a bad time?" "Well, not too bad a time. She...." "Miss Morgan, Kathy is a very fine nurse. As a matter of fact, she is sort of a ray of sunshine around here. She's like the daughter I never had... The only family I have... My sister and the children. I'm very fond of Kathy." "T see." "As long as Kathy tends to her duties properly and carries on in the manner befitting a nurse, I see no reason to say anything to her about some minor...." Joan was about to interrupt him, but the voice on the intercom did. It was Doctor Desmond and he was upset. "Doctor Niles, has Doctor Jeffs gone?" "No, he's on 3B, I think." "Would you find him and have him come to 212? Tom's in a bad way." Joan's first impulse was to go to Tom, too, but she thought better of it. She left Doctor Niles' office feeling depressed. She wondered what Doctor Desmond had said to Doctor Niles about her. Whatever it was, she felt sure he had been definite about her methods concerning the treatment of young Tom. If only he would let her try.... If only he would listen. The rest of the afternoon was busy. At suppertime, she suddenly realized she hadn't stopped for lunch. She went to the cafeteria and filled a tray. Then she saw Kathy seated alone by a window. She smiled. Doctor Des- 429 JUNE 1965 mond isn't the only one who's fond of Kathy, she admitted to herself. I am, too. "Hi, eating alone?" "Oh, hello. Not now. I have a place saved just for you. Say, you look tired. Hard day?" "Sort of. Kathy, tell me about Tom." "Tom? He's a great kid. Lives on the farm next to ours. He fell from a hayrack...." "T know all that. I mean what is he really like?" "He's a very sensitive boy, Miss Morgan. And I know I shouldn't say this... But you shouldn't have said the things you did...." Joan's throat tightened. So everyone knew. Big hospitals were not too different from small ones, after all, she thought. Aloud she said, "Kathy, I think I was right. You are all too close to him." "'We know the modern trend is to... But Tom is different. He doesn't feel sorry for himself. It's not as you think it is." "T know I can work with him." Kathy leaned towards Joan. Her eyes filled with tears. ''Miss Morgan, if today is an example of the way you plan to work with Tom, maybe you'd better just not work with him." She got up and hurried towards the door. 'Joan didn't have to look about her to know that the other nurses in the room were aware of what had taken place. She could feel it. The resentment was _ there, strong and real, and though she knew no one had heard what Kathy had said to her, she knew they didn't have to. Joan picked up her fork, and with a deliberate calm, began to eat, and those watching did not know of the twisting inside her. (To be continued) After Overcast Beulah Huish Sadleir Ice blue sky and a silvery sun, Shimmering streak on the pale water spun From bright metal threadings of gold filigree, Yet day passes slowly, how long shail | see The small floating satls at leisurely pace? This is soul's timing—God's beauty to trace. A Woman's Way Mabel Jones Gabbott Count among the joys a woman knows A brisk warm wind which lifts her laundered clothes, An oven newly scoured from cherry pies Which spilled and bubbled brown; count her sighs Of deep content, after day is done, For hasty kisses from her hungry son. Oh, count among her blessings, day by day, Just life and living it, a woman's way. 430 Anna Lindquist Brady, Rigby, Idaho, has been a_ piano teacher for sixty years. She was a special music student at Brigham Young University at the age of sixteen, and began teaching 'when she was 'seventeen years old. Her '\ Church service has included positions as stake organist, stake chorister, accompanist for many choral groups, and _ director of numerous concerts ) and other musical programs., She has been ward education counselor in Relief Society, and ward Relief Society president. She is now serving as visiting teacher message leader in Rigby First Ward. Sister Brady has four children and nine grandchildren. Ad They Work With Words and Music Edna Paulson Church, Burley, Idaho, has served as accompanist in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church, beginning in Pleasant Grove (Utah) Second Ward when she -was eleven years old. She has been ward organist in Star Ward, Pella Ward, and View Ward (Idaho), as the family moved from one farm to another. Since 1931 she has served as organist for the Burley Second Ward and still holds that position. During this time she hasserved eight years as ward Relief Society president, two years as a counselor, and, after fifteen years as ward Relief Society organist, she is still at the Relief Society piano. Mrs. Church has three sons and six grandchildren. Thoughts of a Mother uring @ Family Home Evening Luacine C. Fox ec¢ @ What a wonderful thing it is to have us all here together! And to have us together under such ideal circumstances. Sitting here, looking around the family circle, seeing them all, it's like getting acquainted all over again. Jim, now, my busy university son. Look at that expression on his face, as if the most important thing in this life is the Family Home Evening. He has such powers of concentration. What a joy it is to a mother to see those powers bent to a righteous purpose. He's not worrying about homework, or his job, or his girl. At this moment he has only one concern in life. Tonight, right now, he's centering his full attention on the gospel. And my Janie. How sweet she looks. I can't believe that before many more weeks she'll be married and gone away from us. She still seems such a child. And yet she's the same age that I was when I married. She's my serious one. Her face is so intent. I think these Home Evenings are exceptionally good for her. She's usually withdrawn. It's strange. As many friends as she has, she often seems alone. Time after time I've wondered what she's thinking. She's always been a good child, 432 and we've been fairly close without really saying anything about it. But these Family Home Evenings. I can't get over how she opens up—how she seems to feel free to express herself. Why, I've heard her give, as her own opinions, suggestion after suggestion that I've made to her and thought she hadn't even heard! Thought she had resented. Look at Tracy. He's so interested in everything. Oh! When I think of the goodness and mercy of the Lord in providing for the saints these weekly family nights! ~ We can draw our children about us and teach them the gospel the way we want it taught, the way it needs to be best presented to reach our family. After all, we've known them since they were born. No one knows them better than we, nor loves them more. And to teach them the truth in our own home, under the direction of the Priesthood and guided by the Spirit of the Lord is—well, I just can't think about it without weeping. Yes, there's my Tracy who is just coming into adolescence, so alive to everything and so full of energy. And we have this chance to channel his thinking. We can find out a little more of what's going on in his mind and what his fears and hopes are. I'm proud of his interest in all that's about him. Why, I'm discovering qualities in him I didn't dream he possessed. More determination than I realized he had; more straightforwardness—and I love his sense of humor. Marianne, now, is more reserved but equally aware of what goes on around her. How her eyes light up when she's asked to read Tracy: "Well, the thing! Like is that we get to ask all the questions we want and everybody's here to answer them. | think it's neat.' TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL Marianne: "I don't know exactly why I like Family Home Evenings so much. Maybe it's because | can see that everybody in the family is trying to be better. It helps me to want to try, too." TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL Johnny: "Okay, okay—lI'll try to be better in Sunday School! Honest, | willl!' Margaret: "'Nobody has asked me anything yet! | want to know when we can eat the ice cream!" TRANSPARENCY BY L. PAUL ROBERTS JUNE 1965 Jim: "It seems to me the important thing to realize in this Family Home Evening, is that it's the way the Lord has provided for us to prepare ourselves for the Savior's second coming." from the scriptures; or when she's answered a question particularly well, and we compliment her. You know, she has too much pride to show it, but underneath she's very shy. It's been a joy to see her begin to gain confidence—oh, not a lot. Just a little now and then, but enough to reassure me about her and to make me realize that as long as her father and I are faithful in carrying out these Family Home Evenings, she will continue to gain confidence. And my blessed, active little Johnny. I've never seen a child wiggle more! It's just all he can do to sit still. Look at him now. You'd think he was a Mexican 434 TRANSPARENCIES BY HAL RUMEL Janie: "Now that I'm about to be married, | suddenly realize that everything begins with the family as a nucleus. It's up to Fred and me to start building right now and bring our children into a real home." jumping bean. And yet, for all that restless energy—(I hope we can help him to channel that properly!)—-how he loves to lie quietly on the floor and listen to his music. It's hard for him to let us know how he feels inside. He's like Janie in that. He can look me straight in the eye and say "yes" or "no," and I can't, for the life of me, tell if it's what he really wants or thinks. He has such pride and wants to be treated as if he were as old as Tracy. Oh, yes, he pretends to be so independent, but I sometimes think he needs, more than the other children, to know he's loved. Sometimes when he smiles at me THOUGHTS OF A MOTHER DURING A FAMILY HOME EVENING he looks almost like an angel. And Margaret, my baby! I'm glad she's still little. They're all growing up so fast—here's Janie getting married soon, and Jim getting close to it, I'm sure. Before you know it, Tracy and Marianne will have gone through adolescence and then they'll be getting engaged. Of course, Tracy will have his mission first. And Johnny. In no time at all he'll —oh, sometimes I feel like stopping the hands on the clock and making time stand still. Yes, I am so grateful for Margaret. She's an adorable little thing, and I don't say that just because I'm her mother. She really is. When she climbs into my lap for me to read to her, or wrinkles up her nose to make us laugh—or when I see her in bed at night, sound asleep with that ridiculous old rag doll she loves so much tucked under her chin, something just twists inside of me. What a joy to be a mother in Israel! I wonder how mothers of the The Earl S. Spafford Family "Scripture is the word of the Lord. Since the beginning of the course, you have been introducing your family to the scriptures. This lesson [24] gives you more opportunity to teach them what the scriptures are and how much they need them." Family Home Evening Manual, page 193 TRANSPARENCY BY J M HESLOP TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP The Samuel F. Guevara Family "Let each fill in the left-hand column one or two ideas he wants to carry out during the week to help him grow in faith in our Heavenly Father. The right-hand column he fills in after he has done thé self-assigned tasks." world, women who are not privileged to be members of the Church, I wonder how they feel about their children. Can they possibly love them as dearly as we love ours? You wonder how they could when they don't realize that the children who come to them are choice spirits from the actual presence of our Eternal Father. That they are sent to us as guests in our homes, to live with us and be cherished and nurtured in the paths of truth so that they may return to their 436 Family Home Evening Manual, page 210 Eternal Father again, prepared for exaltation. To think, that while the rest of the world flounders in bewilderment, not knowing where to turn, seeing the chaos that is everywhere and with panic rising in their hearts—to think that we mothers in Israel are sheltered by the power of the Priesthood. We do not need to flounder; we do not need to fear. We have but to follow the inspired leadership of God's prophets on the earth— to sustain the President of the TRANSPARENCY BY J M. HESLOP "A Family Outing—Made Successful by Love... The Richard K. Winters Family 9. Take a trip to the zoo." Family Home Evening Manual, page 190 Church who is the mouthpiece of the Lord. I keep remembering what the visiting Authority said at the last stake conference: that if we did not accept this plan for the Family Home Evenings and follow through with it, there wouldn't be many left here to greet the Savior when he comes. We must go forward as we have been instructed! Heavenly Father, give me, as the mother of these children and the wife of my husband, the strength and courage to proceed in the way that thou hast marked out for me. Help me to realize that these Family Home Evenings are vital; that I must not neglect them. And help me to stand steadfast by my dear husband's side upholding him as head of the house—encouraging him in patience, love, and with the fullness of purpose and quiet diligence that is a woman's strength. Help me, my _ Father, please, please help me. Oh, Nature § OSSOMS Celia Luce Many B @ Man cannot, and certainly need not, live by bread alone. There is beauty everywhere around us, and nothing sparkles up that beauty more than the multi-colored spectrum of nature's many flowers. Nature sprinkles her landscapes with these brilliant hues from early spring to late fall, from the low-lying deserts to the high mountain peaks, and in colors ranging from pure white to flaming scarlet. In early spring, blossoms come to the desert in the form of poppies, verbenas, cactus, and yucca. In later spring and summer, they appear in the mountains as the yellow balsamroot, pink geraniums, and blue alpine forget-me-nots. Some flowers, such as the common sunflower, the Indian paintbrush, and the rabbitbrush, seem equally at home in either place. Following a fire, the beautiful pink fireweed quickly pushes up to cover the blackened scars. There are often so many wild flowers that we become lost in trying to identify them. A wild flower book such as those for sale in many national parks and in other tourist areas, is a great help. Although these books are produced to show the flowers most common to a certain locale, many of the flowers can be found over a wide range and in many countries. These books can add to the knowledge, understanding, and appreciation, of wild flowers. They can also add much to the learning of the amateur botanist, and to all who love flowers as a hobby, and to the pleasure of any trip. But all we really need is an interest and a desire to see nature at her decorative best. TRANSPARENCIES BY WILLARD LUCE TRANSPARENCY BY WILLARD LUCE Love-Seeded Eva Willes Wangsgaard My heart would sing of peace in little things: The wisdom shown by willingness to learn, A listening ear and gratitude it brings, A word of praise where old resentments burn. It dwells in homes where children love and grow Aware they are a blessing daily sung; Where mothers feel they're privileged to know So intimately lives so dear and young; Where errors are corrected pleasantly Because all learned that life is error-rimmed, Perfection is a goal we seldom see And only with imperfect eyes, love-dimmed. If every hearth were humbly warm, love-seeded, The world would learn that iittle else is needed. 439 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL A Wishing Well for the Bride Winniefred S. Manwaring, Member, General Board of Relief Society A wishing well, sprayed with gold and decorated with cut flowers or potted plants, makes an attractive and unique center of interest for a bride's shower or party. The wishing well illustrated is a large one—72 inches high, measured from the bottom (base) to the top of the slanted roof (crossbeam). Since the round part (cylinder) of the well is covered with heavy corrugated paper in brick design, the interior '"makings" of the well cannot be seen in the picture, but the construction is not difficult. 440 Procedure To make the square frame for the well, saw two pieces of 2"xl" lumber in lengths of 22 inches. Then saw two pieces 24 inches long. Nail the four pieces together, fitting the shorter pieces against the longer lengths. Repeat the process for the bottom of the frame. Then saw 4 pieces of 2"x2" lumber into 31" long pieces. The four lengths are then nailed one at each corner, inside the top and bottom square frames. (Continued on page 477) The Bride in a Summer Setting Hand-sewed Gowns and Hand-decorated Wedding Cake Submitted by Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society The Bride's Cake White Cake Made and decorated by Elsie Wright 1 c. Butter (or white shortening) 11/3 c. Sugar 3 c. Cake flour, sifted 1% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Soda lc. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Almond extract 14 tsp. Lemon extract 6 egg whites 1 tsp. Cream of tartar 2/3 c. Sugar Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Sift flour, soda, and salt together. Add alternately with buttermilk and flavoring. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites to which 2/3 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon cream of tartar have been added. Bake at 375 degrees for thirty to forty minutes until lightly browned. This makes a cake large enough to serve 20 people. If a larger cake is desired, it is best to make the recipe again rather than doubling or tripling the batch. Buttercream Frosting Beat until very creamy (electric beater may be used) 114 c. White shortening 1% tsp. Salt almond extract to taste 9 c. Confectioner's sugar about 14 c. Water For decorating, the frosting must be firmer, so the amount of water should vary with the purpose of the icing. * ° 3: ay 2 > \' ' PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT BRINK ARRANGEMENT BY LANOR ROWE Feather Howers RaNae Gledhill TRANSPARENCIES BY L. PAUL ROBERTS @ Feather artistry has been handed down from generation to generation. Our parents and grandparents used feathers on hats, costumes, and fans. Their homes were decorated with vases containing ostrich, pheasant, peacock, and other fancy feathers. Feathers are even more glamorous today than ever before. Turkey, chicken, duck, goose, vulture, ostrich, and peacock are all used and are dyed every color imaginable. Feathers take dye beautifully and it is possible to get brilliant colors. Any amateur can create an exotic feather flower arrangement to fit into a certain decor in her home. To clean the feathers shake the dust off, tie in bunches, and wash them in detergent or soap and water, rinse, and hang up to dry. It is possible to dye your own feathers. They must first be prepared by washing to remove any natural grease or oil. It is a good idea to add vinegar to the dye and to test a few feathers first to be sure the right shade is obtained. Tie feathers in bunches and hang up to dry. Feathers are inexpensive to buy already cleaned, however, and unbelievably beautiful colors are available. If feathers become crushed, just steam them over an open kettle, and they will be restored to their natural appearance. This also makes them flexible and easy to work with. To curl a feather, just run a knife or scissors along the back edge of the quill and curl as you would a ribbon. Repeat if necessary. Materials needed for making feather flower arrangements are floral wire (fine gauge and heavy gauge), floral tape, and glue. Other materials which can be used are styrofoam balls, flower centers, jewelry discs, and cloth or plastic leaves, if desired. Peonies and roses are made of goose floral feathers and glued into a styrofoam ball. Carnations are made of turkey base feathers wired together and trimmed with pinking shears. Tulips and poppies use the turkey feathers and are curled and then glued to a small disc. Poinsettias and fantasy flowers are created from the long slender hackle feathers. Sweet sultans and anemones are made from fluffy feathers. Very exotic flowers can be made from the ostrich feather simply by stripping all the feathers from the spine and tying together with a fine wire. Lilies are made from duck feathers with the spine removed. Tall, graceful delphiniums are especially lovely in arrangements. They are easily made by taping short floral feathers to a long stem wire. Vulture and peacock feathers are long and graceful and have an attractive curve. Peacock feathers come in either pointed side feathers or rounded eye feathers. These are mainly used to complement other flowers in arrangements. It is possible to create many other lovely flowers—just use your imagination and a few feathers! Hemember the Childrer A Car Seat Cover For a Vacationing Family pm Celia Bartholomew President, Ninth Ward Relief Society Rose Park Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah 444 @ The seat cover is made of denim, using about one and one-half yards of material, which includes the pockets. From top to bottom the cover pictured above measures 1 yard and 4 inches, allowing 3 inches for the overlap at the top, but measurements can be adjusted to fit any type of car. Pockets may be made in any size desired. The pockets illustrated in the picture were attached with a zig-zag stitch and were made to hold a road map (for the driver), wash cloths and towels for the children, a comb, a coloring book, The Children's Friend, a disappearing easel, a piece of heavy cardboard for the children to use as a table while writing or drawing, and other items. The compartments in the center hold pencils and crayons. A length of elastic, about 1% inches wide, is attached at the top to hold the covering over the back of the front seat, and another piece of elastic is pulled around the bottom of the seat so that the cover can be held securely in place. OISPLAYED AT THE WORK MEETING EXHIBIT RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 1964 TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL A Place for alls al Made by Mary Aagard, Fountain Green Ward, Moroni Stake, Utah @ For the "son in the house," a wall hamper for balls and bats attached to a clothes closet door, or on the wall of his den, will make him a champion of orderliness. The hamper must be made of strong cloth, such as denim, ticking, or sailcloth, and can be cut in the length and width most convenient, and in accordance with the number of pockets needed. Appliqued replicas of bats, balls, cap, and gloves make unmistakable labels, and are an invitation and a reminder for putting the boy's favorite equipment in the right place. An overlapping piece of material fits over a clothes hanger, or a shaped piece of wood or wire which can be attached to the wall or to a door. TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL BASEBALL CADDY Materials needed: 2 yds. + 6" material, felt or fabric scraps and bias tape. Size of Caddy: 18" x 34". =] Pocket: 6" x 24" pleated to Ball Pockets: 614" wide x 8" long pleated to 414". DISPLAYED AT THE WORK ME Ball Cap Pocket: 14" wide x 8" long pleated to 1014". Mitt Pocket: 14" wide x 1014" long pleated to 1014" wide. Pockets bound in single fold bias tape. Outside edges bound in doubie fold bias tape. Zuiuado Bu0}.,0% YY Leave opening for ball suit or soiled clothing. Fold piece of paper and make bat pattern 13" long x 234" wide at top. ETING EXHIBIT. RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE. 1964 OXeS, Beautituy Boxes Peggy Tangren @ Some are on the dressing table containing bobby pins or jewelry. Others are in the sewing room filled with pins and buttons. Boxes are needed on the writing desk for stamps, clips, and receipts. Is there a kitchen that doesn't have a box filled with favorite recipes? Handkerchiefs, hose, and scarves are kept more neatly in boxes. A beautiful box for nuts or candy dresses up a living room table. A child who paints and trims his own tithing box has a twofold incentive. A gift presented in a personally decorated box becomes a double gift. Why shouldn't we make the boxes we use pleasing to the eye and conversation pieces? Procedure Clean boxes and remove rough spots, if possible. Using a very soft brush, apply to the box top, only, as many coats of enamel as are needed to cover all blemishes and give the cardboard a heavy satin-appearing finish. The boxes illustrated here each had nine coats. Let each coat of enamel become thoroughly dry before applying the next layer. Do not give the inside of the box or the bottom part of the box more than two coats. Heavier coats of enamel will thicken the cardboard preventing the top, or lid, from fitting. Cement all designs to the boxtops with white glue. Colored designs, such as flowers, butterflies, and the velvet flowers should be coated with clear lacquer after the glue dries. This forms a protection against soil and cleaning. If you have only a small area to coat, clear fingernail polish works just as well and is more economical than laquer for use on small objects. Basic Materials Needed well-made cardboard boxes (in useful shapes and sizes) quick drying enamel white glue Decorative Materials flowers, birds, butterflies, etc., cut from used greeting cards or magazines The following may be obtained from craft stores: gold, silver, or bronze medallions laces, edgings letters small velvet flowers pearl beads TRANSPARENCIES BY L PAUL ROBERTS ro With Foreign Tastes Florian H. Thayn @ Why do we prepare the same menus over and over? Is it because our families prefer the familiar flavors? Perhaps the food is simple and the well-established habits of preparation do not require exactness; only a flexible "about this much, and not so much of that!" To break out of the culinary rut, a group of us planned a buffet supper with an international flavor. It proved to be not only a delectable and varied treat, but real entertainment—for every dish became a conversational piece. Some of the flavor combinations were new, some familiar, but all were pronounced "husband-approved" and "second-helping good." The recipes are mostly from our sisters who have lived in many parts of the world, but nearly all of the ingredients are available the year around. Best of all, most of them can be prepared a day ahead. The flair with which any of these dishes is served makes them a delightful company treat, or a hearty family meal. 448 FOOD WITH FOREIGN TASTES Pistitio Carol Richards, with her husband Clyde and their children, lived in Greece where this recipe originated. Pistitio (Pi-steet-see-o) Boil 34 |b. Of macaroni until tender. Drain and put back into pan with a Jump of butter. This prevents the macaroni sticking together or to the pan. Now, brown in 14 cup olive oil: 144 Ib. Hamburger; 4 large onions, chopped; 3 cloves garlic; 2 tbsp. Parsley; 1 tbsp. Allspice (that is correct). Salt and pepper to taste. Add 1 can tomato soup and remove from heat immediately. Make a cream sauce of 6 cups of milk; 1 tbsp. Butter and 14 cup water mixed with 14% cup cornstarch. Cook until thick. Salt and pepper to taste. Grease pan lightly and place one half of the macaroni for the bottom layer. Sprinkle generously with Parmesan cheese. Cover macaroni with meat mixture. Put remainder of macaroni on top and sprinkle generously with Parmesan cheese. Pour thick white sauce over entire mixture. It should cover the macaroni well. Sprinkle with cinnamon and bake at 350° for 30 minutes. Cut in squares and serve. Pistitio can be prepared, covered with foil, and frozen. Malanzane Alla Parmigiana Reared in the shadow of Jefferson's Monticello, Dorothy Caruso takes a back seat (or should one say "back kettle") to no one when it comes to Southern cooking. Marriage to Vincent Caruso added Italian zip to her notable cooking repertoire. Her mother-in-law's recipe is for people who think they do not like eggplant! Malanzane Alla Parmigiana Peel and slice a medium-sized eggplant. Lay the slices on a flat plate. Cover with another plate and place a heavy weight on top for about three hours. The juice that is drained off has a bitter flavor many object to. This step can be omitted, but this is the authentic way it is prepared by good Italian cooks. Dip the slices into a dish containing 2 beaten eggs then into fine bread crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, chopped fresh or dried parsley, and grated Parmesan cheese. Brown, do not cook, in olive oil. Cover the bottom of a casserole with your favorite spaghetti sauce. Place a layer of eggplant; sprinkle with more grated Parmesan cheese and spaghetti sauce and thin slices of Mozarella cheese. Repeat with second layer, ending with sliced cheese. About 2 cups of sauce are needed. Bake at 350° about 30 minutes. American Beet Salad Judge not this colorful beet salad until you have tried it! Because of its bright color, it is called: American Beet Salad 2 cans diced beets (or cook fresh beets and dice to make 3 cups) 1 thinly sliced purple Bermuda onion — _ dash of salt 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise (do not substitute salad dressing) Mix and chill. Add 2 cups shredded lettuce just before serving. This salad is excellent for picnics and will keep many days without the lettuce. (Recipes continued in the July Magazine) 449 Annual Report for 1964 The Relief Society, established by the Prophet Joseph Smith 123 years ago, providing for the women of the Church an organization "according to the natures of women," continued to bless and strengthen its increasing number of members during 1964. The 274,703 members who made up its ranks in the past year included sisters of many nationalities and races, including more than 6,000 coeds on various college campuses. The mothers ranged in age from their late teens to grandmothers and great-grandmothers crowding the century mark. This represents an increase of 12,701 members. Of this total membership 2,412 were women wha were not baptized members of the Church, but who were edified by the lofty program and activities of the organization. The varied aspects of the Society were carried forward by a devoted corps of 182,966 leaders including 4,568 stake officers, and 1,273 district and mission officers. The work in 5,735 wards and branches throughout the Church was accomplished by 21,596 ward and branch executive Officers, 11,567 other officers (including choristers, organists and Magazine representatives), 23,251 class leaders and 120,611 visiting teachers. Increased testimony, cultural development, and unbounded satisfaction came to these leaders as they unselfishly gave of themselves in service. The blessings of the organization were extended to sisters of the Church in 400 stakes and 74 missions located in each of the United States and in 53 other countries throughout the world from the tip of Tasmania, the Union of South Africa and Argentina on the south, to Alaska, northern Canada, the British Isles, Finland, and the Scandinavian countries on the north. Areas in which Relief Societies are located include, among others, Germany, Samoa, Japan, Korea, Libya, Lebanon, Brazil, Spain and Guatemala. Sisterly visits were made by visiting teachers visiting in pairs to 559,795 Latter-day Saint families throughout the Church and to 10,779 families who were not members of the Church, but who wetcomed the visits of these sisters. These visits were made monthly to observe instances of need in the respective homes and to carry a spiritual message to the mother of the home, with a total of 4,466,668 visits being made. Inspiration and musical development came into the lives of 43,711 sisters who united with heart and voice in singing the songs of Zion as they participated in 3,113 Singing Mothers choruses. Their messages of faith, testimony, peace, and happiness warmed the hearts of saints and friends assembled in conferences, in special concerts throughout the Church, at The American Mothers Annual Awards Luncheon and at the New York World's Fair, and in social functions and programs conducted by Relief Societies. A total of 231,933 Relief Society Magazines carried into Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint homes the spirit of this great women's organization. They contained articles of general reading interest. Inspirational messages by General Authorities and the Relief Society General Presidency, suggestions on good homemaking, the courses studied by Relief Societies throughout the world, accounts of important events of historical interest, instructions to Relief Society leaders, and stimulating creative writings in fiction and poetry. Sympathetic, kindly, merciful services to the sick, bereaved, and those in distress, which is the fundamental work of Relief Society, claimed many hours of service by sisters upon assignment of their Relief Society presidents. This included 29,896 eight-hour days care of the sick, 407,621 visits to the sick and homebound, assistance at 10.203 funerals, the dressing of 855 bodies for burial and the giving of 684.805 hours to other compassionate services. Many anxieties were lessened, hearts comforted, and suffering assuaged through this untiring service. Relief Society, in 1964, also aided in the care of the needy through service considered a part of the Church Welfare Program. Under the direction of bishops. 108,948 visits were made by Relief Society presidents to families in need, 73,580 additional contacts were made, and 809,524 hours contributed by females on welfare projects. Through attendance at the weekly Relief Society meetings, the sisters consistently studied and saw the application in their lives of truths contained in The Doctrine and Covenants and in good literature. They came to understand more fully divine law in relation to Church government. They increased their homemaking skills. As @ result of their conscientious efforts stimulated by bazaars and the teaching of homemaking skills, the sisters completed a total of 1,164,990 articles under the supervision OF at the direction of Relief Society. This included 747,236 quilts, articles of men's, women's and children's clothing and household furnishings, and 417,754 useful and artistic articles which did not require sewing. All of these studies, services, and activities engaged in during the past year helped to equip the members of Relief Society to be better wives, mothers, homemakers, members of the Church, and citizens of their respective communities. Thus Relief Society continues to accomplish the purposes for which it was divinely established. Ll P ht > = An _*; C: / General Secretary- — 452 Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Dist. Of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho IMlinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri rare eee ne ce 8 172 1 528 66 1 293 11,159 23 37,319 3,656 53 76 155 1,795 658 1,473 615 118 224 235 349 128 195 472 373 772 260 203 464 124 558 122 352 65 156 40 201 459 312 Totals United States Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio ' Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming ~~ 4 i Sires & ° 2 a. } 7 j { United States N [e9] (9) N 20 725 12 |. 81 2,631 31 24 «1,133 15 _ 115 5,789 10 11 398 10 65 3,606 1 18 66 224,145} 587 | 12,833 cee 3,46 bow / |236,978 ie JUNE 1965 453 Other Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Bermuda Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Istands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy Japan Countries 55 4,746 1,307 825 ' Korea j Lebanon Libya Mexico Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand | Nicaragua / Norway; | Okinawa | Pan. Canal Zone |, Paraguay j 1 | 1; Peru j ' | Philippine Islands / Poland: Puerto Rico i; Samoa ' Scotland Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Union of So. Africl Uruguay Wales Tota! United States Total Other Countries| GRAND TOTAL 17 ni] 10 39 12 | ~s STAKES | iN 594 191 1,206 215 122 276 469 224, 145 | MISS pOrgat | ONS RA 7 1 9 1 101 22 1 4 587 | 12,833 318) 10,633) 1,361 | 27,092 3,787 | 234,778 1,948 | 39,925 TOTALS =: Sn =# a -; 762 | 508 567_ 951 | 374 849 190 | 4,056 | 236,978 | 1,679 | 37,725 | 15,735 1274, 703 ANNUAL REPORT INCREASE 12,701 — os 1964 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 274,703 1963 TOTAL MEMBERSHIP 262,002 Membership Growth 1964 1963 or 1963 or MEMBERSH |p Membership (Total) 274,703 In Stakes 234,778 In Missions 39,925 Non-L. D. S. Members 2,412 L. D. S, FAMILIES Visiteg by Visiting Teachers L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers 455 11,45] 672— 8,713 1,684— 2.738 1,012+4 Stake Officers 4.568 4,417 151+ Non-L. D. S. Families (Total) District ang Mission Officers 1,373 1,189 184+ In Stakes Ward and Branch Executive Officers 21,596 | 20,874 722+ In Missions 611 [113,680 6,931+4 VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers 120,611 113,680 6,931+4 ORGANIZATIONS Visiting Teacher Districts 64,531] 60,640 3,8914 Family yj; its (Total 325,34] 41,3274 Organizations (Total) 6,531 6,353 178+ i me) r ~ — 864,344 85,6524 Stake and Mission Organizations (To al) 796 770 26+ Not Home 1,516,679 1,460 997 | 55 6754. Ee 4 = 7 Per Cent at Home 66.040/ 66.220, =. - 3 2 Z Mission Districts 329 31] 11+ Communications nN Lieu of Visits 150,352 136,169 14,1834 > z z > Ward and Branch Organizations (Tot. ) 5,735 5,583 152+ a 3 $ =~ In Stakes 3,735 3,644 141+] An average of 9.2 visits was Made in the Stakes to each family in 1964 In Missions 1,950 1,939 11+] An average of g visits was Made Church-wide to each family in 1964 456 1964 1963 Decrease SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions 3,113 2,412 701 43,711 36,468 7,243 MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 231,933 217,397 211+ 150+ 61+ 1,846+ 1,875+ 29- 14,536+ COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the 43,711 SINGING MOTHERS PARTICIPATED IN 3,113 CHORUSES Sick Visits to Sick and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining List of Nurses (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1964 1963 Increase or Decrease 29,896 407,621 684,805 855 10,203 3,960 3,193 767 32,666 390,566 596,349 836 9,644 3,674 2,980 694 2,770— 17,055+ 88,456+ 19+ 559+ 286+ 213+ 73+ JUNE 1965 457 a he é h a MEETINGS AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 1964 jcent| 1963 |cent Regular Meetings for Members 185,996| 179,468 | 6,528+ In Stakes 87.450 |37.2 | 83,629 Visiting Teacher Meetings 37,128| 35,621] 1,507+ In Missions 16,065 {40.2 | 16,932 Special Meetings 20,644 19,367 1,277+ Theology 110,302 |40.1 |167,504 Other Functions 12,109} 10,003 2,106+ Work 106.118 |38.6 |102,777 Literature 98.466 }35.8 | 95,486 Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) 8,089 7,328 761+ Social Science 99,174 |36.1 | 96,476 a; " Visiting Teacher Meetings 62.562 |51.9 | 59,912 Stake and District Board Meetings 4,541 4,097 444+;.::: Stake and Mission Leadership Meetings 3.542| 3,231 317+ | Relief Society Leadership Meetings | 27,496 |44.1 | 26,346 co mm TMNNMONTONG aAOwouon Tosamnodg Relief Society General Conference 1 1 Relief Society Meetings at Stake Quarterly Conferences 390 363 27+ Total Meetings Held 264.379 | 252,175 | 12,204+ RELIEF SOCIETY PREPARES MOTHERS FOR FAMILY HOME EVENING ANNUAL REPORT Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) 255.877 | 244,459 | 11,418+ | Regular Meetings for Members (Total) | 103.515 | 37.6 |100,561 DEVELOPMENT THROUGH HOMEMAKING EDUCATION oO Mother learns bread and roll making in Relief Saciety. (2) Mother teaches daughter. © Daughter serves rolls at Family Home Evening. 459 SEWING Articles Completed (Total) Sewed Articles (Total) Quilts: Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles (Total) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1964 1,164,990 747 236 26,506 80,692 89,145 4,347 286,238 260 308 417,754 5,457 4,838 619 1963 1,054,894 687,091 25,287 70,617 85,569 4,013 264,526 237,079 367,803 5,613 5,067 546 Increase or Decrease 100,096+ 60,145+ 1,219+ 10,075+ 3,576+ 334+ 21,712+ 23,229+ 49,951+ 156— 229— 73+ CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Other Contacts Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 108,948 73,580 809,524 60,345 1963 100,969 50,653 902,221 63,957 215,516 5,587 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS To Wards and Branches (Total) By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers 36,887 27 336 9, 35] 36,978 27,059 9,919 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 1964............$2,341,938.30 REGEIDLGE pee.. Aee. Oe.. Eee.. Cccce...--. Eeteeecooes.. SE. SR 4,648,730.28 9 (COD (/\ Lane$6,990,668.58 Disbursements.|............22..2.2.0-00-c2coecee cee ce cee ceceeceee ees 4,394,076.93 Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 1964........$2,596,591.65 ASSETS — December 31, 1964 Net Cash on Hand December 31 Presiding Bishops Office Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings TOTAL ASSETS 7,979+ 22,927+ 92,697— 3,612— 17,065+ 452— his 277+ 368— Seed woes...--- ae$2,596,591.65 422,909.67 73,626.07 120,006.30 $3,213,133.69 ANNUAL REPORT Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at; Relief Society Activities. Tarial s alien k O4 1 ¢ 4 4 + 2 n — >) 3 a November 27, 1964 Kneeling, in front: Helen Fairhurst; Keith Whall; Neil Carson; Gary Whall; Jackie Whall. Standing, left to right: Ailsa Casbon, President; Berenice Kinnair; Penny Smith; Marjen Taylor; John Hall; Majeen Fairhurst; Dene Grant; Arthur Carson, Branch President; Audrey Whall, work meeting leader; Betty Browne, Work Counselor; Skoffery Browne, First Counselor in the branch presidency. Marjorie R. Jenner, President, Northeast British Mission Relief Society, reports: "Only one of the nine stalls of the bazaar is visible in the picture. The branch has only ten active sisters, and the bazaar was ably supported by the Priesthood. This small branch was organized two years ago. The bazaar aroused great interest in the district, so much that the local press representatives came and took pictures which were printed on the front page of their evening edition. Out of the substantial sum raised the sisters were able to make a handsome donation to the building fund." 460 NOTES FROM THE FIELD French Polynesian Mission Relief Society Seminar, Papeete, Tahiti October 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Esther Bennet, Tuamotu District; Diane S. Stone, Supervisor, French Polynesian Mission Relief Society; Eleonora Mataoa, Tahiti District. Back row, standing, left to right: Tiaki Menemene, Leeward Islands District; Elisa Sam You, Tubuai District; Teriiotemana Tahiata, Tubuai District. Sister Stone reports: "Over 150 Relief Society officers and teachers and branch and district presidency representatives gathered at the French Polynesian Mission headquarters in Papeete for a two-day Relief Society Leadership Seminar. Members from as far as the Noumea Branch in New Caledonia, almost -3,000 miles away, were greeted by the mission Relief Society Supervisor Diane S. Stone, under whose leadership the seminar was organized. "Throughout the seminar, emphasis was placed on the role of Relief Society in the home and the community. With this in mind, members of the mission Relief Society presidency explained the purpose and organization of the Relief Society, underlining the important part women play in the spiritual welfare and progression of the family. To assist the sisters when they return to their branches, the importance of developing leadership and effective planning was stressed. This included demonstrations of effective visiting teaching methods, teaching with visual aids, conducting prayer meetings, discussing the annual mission Relief Society bazaar, and explaining and distributing the lesson books which had been prepared in both the French and Tahitian languages. A slide presentation of Relief Society activities and achievements during the past year and an inspirational testimony meeting were held. Members of the Papeete Relief Societies prepared a luncheon for their guests each day of the conference. Coming from more than twenty different islands, the sisters organized themselves into Singing Mothers choruses, a different district performing for each conference session. Representatives from each district would then give a report of their progress during the past year." JUNE 1965 Uintah Stake (Utah) Relief Society Fashion Show January 28, 1965 Appearing in jumper dresses made by their mother, Mollidean Morton, are: Marsha Kay, Carol Dean, Shelly Ann, and Valerie Jean Morton. Board and committee members. Huge paper flowers formed the background decorations. These were made by committee members. Prelude music was played on the piano by Diane Abplanalp. Sister Turner welcomed the sisters, numbering about 300. The Singing Mothers of Jensen Ward sang 'My Happiness,' accompanied by Kay Trujillo. The fashions and models were presented Some of the styles were made from other articles of clothing; some were sister look-alikes; and some were mother-daughter outfits. Many of the fashions Glendale Stake (California) Annual Visiting Teacher Convention January 29, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Edna Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Florence Dalton, Work Counselor; Leah Frandsen, Education Counselor. Stake's record of 99 per cent visiting teaching, and we hope that this year each of our eleven wards will attain 100 per cent." 462 463 NOTES FROM THE FIELD JUNE 1965 Riverside Stake (Utah), Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society Honors Former Presidents at Party, March 16, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Drucilla Newman; Pearl Putnam; Christina Barker; Mary Dunlop; and Sarah Harman (age ninety-four). Back row, standing, left to right: Donna Smith, President, Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society; Bernetta Barton; Polli Celle; Mary Connary; Esther Nelson. Clara Smith and Elizabeth T. Madsen were unable to attend the party. Luella M. Buchi, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "A fine program was presented, followed by a delicious luncheon. Each of the former presidents was presented with a lovely corsage. Many former members of the ward Relief Society were invited and enjoyed renewing old acquaintances. There have been fourteen Relief Society presidents in the Twenty-ninth Ward since its organization in 1902. Two have passed away—Sophie McKean, the first president, and Eugenie Hale, who, with her husband and three children, was killed in an automobile accident in 1954, while she was still serving as Relief Society president." Pomona Stake (California) Relief Society Style Show December 4th, 1964 Models, left to right: Sandi Calder; Jackie Price; Fern Sevy, general chairman. Harriett Finlayson, President, Pomona Stake Relief Society, reports: "Pomona Stake is just three years old, and like other eager and enthusiastic three-year-olds, we are growing out of everything we own. We are either building new, adding on, or squeezing in, throughout our seven wards. Our stake Relief Society presidency, Harriett Finlayson, Marie Thompson, and Marjorie Denkers, with the Secretary-Treasurer Ola Dodds, saw the need of the wards and stake to put a little money away to furnish the increased facilities for our sisters, as each construction is completed. "Along with this need, there was another—that of encouraging the attendance of our inactive sisters to a function of such quality that they would feel pride in their association with us. The reactivation of these sisters was our primary concern when, at the beginning of the year, we chose the theme: 'Be ye builders of the kingdom.' To accomplish these purposes, we decided upon a festive and beautiful fashion show. "Our members who sew well were called upon to create holiday fashions for themselves and their families, particularly encouraging the teenage daughters to discover the satisfaction of this form of creativity. Fern Sevy, the social science class leader, who makes her own clothes, was the chairman. She assembled her models and had them tutored in make-up, hair styles, and modeling technique. She enlisted professional musicians from our membership for special numbers, conscripted her husband to produce the muted, high-fidelity background music, coaxed a beautiful setting from the talents of a professional decorator, and wrote and read the narration. The whole stake board rallied to help. To accommodate everyone, we had both a matinee and an evening performance. Holiday fruit breads and cranberry punch were served from an attractive buffet. The price of each ticket sold in the wards was divided equally between the ward and the stake. "In addition to our major objectives, we were able to give recognition to our skilled seamstresses and to stimulate the interest of the nonsewers and the young people. We were very proud of the way in which our multiple purposes were accomplished." 464 » left to right: Charksey McLarson, Counselor, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society: Marie Heywood, Counselor, Phoenix Stake Relief Society: David E. Heywood, President, Phoenix Stake; Thelma d ie, Other ward officers, back row, standing, left to right: Jean Smith; Ora Bybe: Reta Cheatam: Lenore Skillman: Jean John; Leora Jay; Olene Trembath: Edna Battie: Patsy Dooley: Alice Rhaton: Wavola South; Guinn Patton; Lottie Sorenson: Shirley Parker; Betty Kempton, the recognition they deserved. "The flag was beautifully designed and constructed by Zona Waldie, stake at leadership meeting and enlarged our 4ppreciation for the work done in each epartment. It also Caused us to realize more deeply the true meaning of Re- 466 THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1965-66 Elder Roy W. Doxey w Powerful and informative sections of the Doctrine and Covenants do not always appear in chronological sequence as do those received in the closing month of 1832 and the beginning of 1833. Sections 88 through 92 contain many great truths which should be emphasized. A superficial examination of a revelation, without due attention being given to its most important messages, is never a completely rewarding experience. Revelations to be appreciated, require a studied and prayerful examination of their central ideas. Although five lessons this year are spent in a study of Section 88, there is still much to be written about many of the marvelous truths revealed in the "Olive Leaf," the name the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to this revelation. The "Olive Leaf" is the Lord's message of peace to the saints. An important theme of one of the five lessons is the way in which the Lord, through this revelation, speaks peace to his people. Peace in the life of the saint is important in any period. It might be contended that world conditions have so far worsened morally, as to individuals and nations, that there is great need for the saint to be on the Lord's side and thereby receive the peace promised to the faithful. Section 88 speaks peace through revealing an understanding of God's purposes for man in the operation of the universe, the satisfaction received through knowing of his plan for the salvation of all men, the assurance of the resurrection and association with friends and loved ones, the glories of the resurrected worlds in which we shall all have a place, and the fact that law prevails throughout God's kingdoms. All of these ideas indicate that through knowledge, the saint may have peace in a troubled world. Ideas that exalt and ennoble man, and other valued truths of rich content are interspersed throughout Section 88. Counsel which, if followed, will bring happiness unbounded with the peace that satisfies, is another contribution of this revelation. One of the most widely known revelations in the Doctrine and 467 JUNE 1965 Covenants is the Word of Wisdom (Section 89). Evidence is available to substantiate the prophetic element of this revelation. In the two lessons about the Word of Wisdom, these questions are answered: Is the Word of Wisdom a commandment? What is given in Section 89 that supports belief that the Lord expects his saints to observe it? How does the observance of the Word of Wisdom contribute to the spirituality of the Latter-day Saint? Section 90 instructs us con- "keys" of the Priesthood in the order of the Church organization and the importance of our personal obligation to renew and keep our covenants. This section is full of information vital to the proper direction of the Church in this dispensation. Section 91 instructs the Prophet concerning the Apocrypha of the Old Testament, and Section 92 is a revelation and commandment that Frederick G. Williams should be received into the United Order. Cerning the significance of the The 1965-66 series of theology lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 65—God's Power in the World (D&C 88:1-14) Objective: To appreciate God's attributes of mercy and justice in the functioning of the ''Light of Christ' and the Holy Ghost. Lesson 66—The Earth and Man (D&C 88:14-35, 97-104) Objective: To learn of the resurrection of man and of the earth's destiny. Lesson 67—The Law, Man, and the Universe (D&C 88:36-75) Objective: To realize the value of a reign of law in the universe, and to learn how man may benefit himself eternally by obedience to law. Lesson 68—Knowledge and Events of the Future (D&C 88:76-116) Objective: To learn the importance of missionary preparation; the place of education in the gospel; and of events of the future predicted. Lesson 69—Great Truths; the School of the Prophets (D&C 88:117-141) Objective: To learn how Section 88 speaks ''peace'' to the members of the Church, and to be instructed in principles that pertain to gospel learning. Lesson 70—An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom (D&C 89:1-3) Objective: To understand that the Word of Wisdom is a commandment. Lesson 71—The Word of Wisdom—A Life-giving Revelation (D&C 89:4-21) Objective: To recognize the prophetic element in the Word of Wisdom, understand its positive teachings and appreciate the spiritual blessings available to the individual who keeps the commandments therein. Lesson 72—The First Presidency—Keys of the Kingdom (D&C 90, 91, 92) Objective: To understand the place of the keys of the Priesthood in the gospel plan. JUNE 1965 The following are the visiting teacher messages and their objectives: Message 65—''And | Give Unto You a Commandment That Ye Shall Teach One Another the Doctrine of the Kingdom'' (D&C 88:77). Objective: To emphasize the fact that we have a solemn responsibility to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Message 66—''Pray Always That Ye May Not Faint'' (D&C 88:126). Objective: To emphasize the fact that sincere prayer is one of the most powerful influences in the world. Message 67—''See That Ye Love One Another; Cease to Be Covetous; Learn to Impart One to Another As the Gospel Requires'' (D&C 88:123). Objective: To show that love is the most important ingredient of an abundant life. Message 68—''Cease to Be Idle'? (D&C 88:124). Objective: To show that only through constructive and industrious work can we achieve purposeful and satisfying lives. Message 69—'Abide Ye in the Liberty Wherewith Ye Are Made Free' (D&C 88:86). Objective: To describe the nature of liberty and its dependence upon the laws of righteousness. Message 70—''Cease to Find Fault One With Another' (D&C 88:124). Objective: To emphasize the importance of building and uplifting others by focusing attention upon their good qualities. Message 71—''For What Doth It Profit a Man If a Gift Is Bestowed Upon Him, and He Receive Not the Gift?'' (D&C 88:33). Objective: To illustrate the fact that God's gifts are ours only if we accept and magnify them. Message 72—''He That Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me, and Shall Not Be Forsaken'' (D&C 88:33). Objective: To stress the importance of seeking and finding the Lord as early as possible in our lives. Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 8 — The Family Counsels Together (A course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January through September 1965) For August 1965 Objective: To emphasize the value of family members counseling together on matters of family interest. In order that family life may function smoothly and profitably for all, parents and _ children should make decisions as to many matters which are of importance to the family. Some of the issues which are of family member interest are use of family facilities; where to spend family vacations; 470 individual family members, such as work, college, and Church missions. Of concern to all should be general budgeting and organizing of time, so that goals set by the family for the family may be achieved. Some of these issues, with suggestions for a possible meeting ace INTRODUCTION wise use of family funds; goals of of problems which these issues may create, will be discussed in this lesson. "UNIQUE TO THEIR FAMILY" The Family Home _ Evening Manual provides for systematic teaching of the gospel to all family members. There are also (as is well known by this time) suggestions for social and recreational activities which well may be associated with the weekly instruction period. Still other important aspects of family living are of interest and importance to the family, and the flexibility of the Family Home Evening program allows for a consideration of these important matters. The following statements appear in the Foreword to the Family Home Evening Manual, page vii: "... Only forty-six lessons are included in this manual, thus allowing a minimum of six weeks for additional flexibility; these weeks may be interspersed throughout the year according to the desires or special needs of the family.... Other parents may desire to create special activities unique to their family." This flexibility provides an excellent opportunity for parents to counsel with their children on problems or situations of general or specific interest to their particular family. A portion of the scheduled and regular Home Evening, moreover, might, at times, be devoted to such considerations. VALUABLE TRAINING One of the most important and always-with-us family matters has to do with the expenditure of money. Some parents may obLESSON DEPARTMENT ject to a family consideration of family funds; however, other parents believe that children can be given valuable training as to the wise use of money without being told the financial status or exact amount of the family income. They say that children should know something about the financial needs of the family and that, through a wisely guided discussion of money matters, children may be instructed in the law of (1) tithing (and other Church offerings); (2) the value of saving (for missions and college); (3) the blessings of sharing with others (needy family members and worthy community charities). While younger members of the family may not be in a position to offer suggestions as to such goals as college and missions, they learn much as they hear parents and older family members discuss these important goals. THE FAMILY VACATION Where to spend the summer vacation may be a subject suitable for family discussion where children are old enough to warrant their participation and where parents have done preparatory planning. In the following illustration, the parents, having previously considered two desirable vacation trips, invited the children to express their preference. Bill (age ten) later converses with a friend regarding the family summer vacation. Friend: Did you go to Yellowstone Park for your vacation? Billy: No, we went to Kansas to see Uncle Henry. Friend: But I thought you wanted to go to Yellowstone. 47 JUNE 1965 Billy: I did. So did two of my sisters. We wanted to see the geysers and the bears. Friend: Well, why didn't you go? Billy: You see, we discussed it at our Family Home Evening. Dad said there wouldn't be enough time or money to go to Yellowstone and to Kansas, too, so we'd need to choose which we'd prefer. My sister Barbara said that the geysers would be there forever but that Uncle Henry and the farm likely wouldn't, so she suggested Kansas. Friend: Does what Barbara wants go for all the family? Billy: Oh no, she's only one person, but when we voted, more persons thought as she did, so we went to Kansas. Our mother said maybe we could go to Yellowstone next year. What does this response to family counseling indicate? (A willingness to cooperate and to consider the desires of others.) What does it imply as to the future of these family members? (An important step toward maturity has been taken by these children which will assist them to happy adult living.) WHERE THE FAMILY MAKES THE RULES Many parents enlist the cooperation of their children in establishing rules for use of family facilities. They believe that children will feel a greater responsibility to fulfill obligations to which they have agreed than to regulations which they may feel have been imposed upon them. They, therefore, use a guided family discussion period to formulate these rules. Consider the following statements which show the result of the family recommendation that parents always be consulted as to the use of the family car. 472 Rodney: Dad, Id like to use the car one night this week end. Which night would fit best into the family schedule? Father: Il check with your mother as to her needs. Either Friday or Saturday would be all right as far as I'm concerned. Do you know what Stephen and Margie are planning? Margie: (age fourteen) Mother, could I have use of the car Wednesday night so Stephen can drive Betty and me to the roadshow? Mother: I think so, but have you asked your father if he needs it on Wednesday? And have you asked Stephen if he is free to take you? Stephen: I have a basketball practice Wednesday night. Is anyone using the car? Could these conflicting interests be resolved more _ satisfactorily through a _ family discussion period? SELFISH USE OF FAMILY FACILITIES Today's complex living makes demands upon all family facilities. Selfish use of these facilities by family members may prompt complaints such as the following: 1. Does Margie have to use the telephone all evening? Can't she ever say goodbye? 2. How come Rodney gets the car tonight? He took it without asking. 3. Do we have to have western movies on TV all the time, just because Kenny likes them so much? 4. I can't study with so much noise in the family room. Why can't Bob practice his horn in his bedroom? Briefly reconstruct the family situations which could have prompted these complaints. Could a guided family discussion help to resolve these petty grievances? SHALL THE FAMILY CORRECT? Some fathers who are advocates of periodic family discussion periods like to ask, "Are there any problems which you children would like to have us discuss?" Their responses often may bring to light concerns in young minds which otherwise might never be known to the parents. The wise mother will value assistance in bettering her relationship with her children and, therefore, will consider seriously such statements as_ the following: 1. Mary (age eleven): "I'd like to discuss cleaning up cur room. When it's Janet's turn to clean up she just stuffs everything she doesn't know what to do with into MY dresser drawers. I don't like this." What character trait in each of the girls may this statement indicate to the listening mother? (In Janet, perhaps a tendency to shift responsibility; in Mary, a desire for neatness, but perhaps also a feeling of resentment.) 2. Boy (age eight): "I wish mothers weren't so busy. Lots of times I have questions to ask my mother but she seems so far away. I mean her mind seems far away, as if it didn't want to hear questions." How can such a statement help the mother of this small boy? (She should review her busyness and arrange to spend a little more time with her young son.) Parents may need to consider, seriously, the wisdom of using a family counseling period for correction of individual error. If a child is to feel that correction is LESSON DEPARTMENT to help him, and that it is given in loving consideration for his welfare, and not a rejection of him as an individual, it may be unwise to have all family members made aware of his error and allowed to pass judgment on his mistake. Certain infractions of approved behavior, parents may prefer and should prefer to discuss with the child individually. There are, however, many small infractions of good behavior, of which all people are guilty, to some degree, which may be corrected easily, if one is made aware of them in a constructive way. The _ family discussion period may be an especially appropriate occasion for this correction, with father or mother giving kind and_ constructive counsel. Such discussions might involve polite behavior, such as the boy standing when an elderly person approaches, opening the door for his mother and sisters, girls thanking boys for special courtesies. SUMMARY Those who advocate having the family counsel together periodically, believe that much good can come to the child and other family members as a result of this practice. Children feel important by being members of a guided family discussion; their opinions being valued, their vote counted; their approval or disapproval considered. If they can be taught that many problem situations disappear when family members are kind and unselfish, when they see the need to consider the opinions of other members of the family, then the family discus- 473 JUNE 1965 sion, with father and mother guiding it, may be of value to the entire family. Of what specific value may such a discussion be to the mother? (It may serve as a polltaking by which she may appraise her effectiveness in certain areas of her mothering. It may reveal those areas where more effort and more understanding are needed to make the present home a happier one.) If the present home is a happy one, it will be an effective training ground for happy homes of the future. LITERATURE ~— The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature FOR DISCUSSION Questions that appear in the lesson, plus others which may arise during the class discussion. FOR HOME DOING: Discuss with husband situations in your home which might be suitable for a guided discussion. Hold a family counseling and discussion period in your home (if you have not already done so). Appraise its value to your family. — Volume I: The Individual and Human Values by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Deseret Book Company Press, Salt Lake City Preview of Lessons for 1965-66 Elder Bruce B. Clark @ The new program in literature for the Relief Society organization has now been functioning for a year. Three things identify this new program. First, the focus is upon the works of literature themselves rather than upon authors' lives or historical background, and this focus encourages stimulating discussion and exchange of ideas with all the in- 474 sight into life and life's values that literature can give. Second, for the first time in its history, the Relief Society has provided a book of literature especially prepared for use by members of the Church, which permits a personal study of selections from the world's great literature. Fortunately, the book is available at a very reasonable price ($2.95), and those wards in which many sisters have copies of the book report special success in its use. Third, the new program is an effort to harmonize literature with the gospel, permitting a rich correlation between the ideals of our cultural heritage and the ideals of our religion. Our obligation as members of the Church is first of all to study the scriptures and the words of our modern prophets for the fullness of the gospel that they contain. But beyond these we are encouraged to study the best writings of the world for the supplemental knowledge and insight that these can give. At its best, literature is concerned with building faith and championing spiritual values—and with opposing and exposing sin, materialism, shallowness, and all things false. The literature program for 1965-66 will be a continuation of the program for the past year and will use the same book. Again there will be a sufficient number of selections covered each month so that stake and ward literature leaders can select those most useful for their group. And again the sisters will be encouraged to bring to their reading and discussion of the selections all of their own background in life's experiences. For literature is valuable not only because of the author's talent and insight but also because it stirs readers to think and evaluate and aspire. It is good, as we approach another year of reading literature, that we remind ourselves of the PREVIEWS OF LESSONS FOR 1965-66 challenges and rewards of great literature. Perhaps these are nowhere stated better than by Mortimer Adler in the brilliant little essay on pp. 19-20 of Out of the best Books, which reads in part: The great books are not easy to read. No one should expect to understand them very well on a first reading, nor even to master them fully after many readings. I have often said that they are the books which are over everyone's head all of the time. That is why they must be read and reread. That is also why they are good for us. Only the things which are over our head can lift us up. As we approach another year of study it is also good to remind ourselves that reading a work of literature is a beginning and not an end. It opens doors rather than closes them. When we finish reading a selection we should be left thinking, not with all questions answered, but with sufficient insight that we are just a little better prepared to meet life's challenges and achieve our eternal goals. Finally, as we participate in the Relief Society literature program we should remember that the program will be fully successful only if we carry it into our homes, sharing the wonder and wisdom of good literature, as well as its delights, with our families. One of the most valuable things we parents can give our children is a love of reading, plus some skill in analyzing what we read; and one of the best ways to do this is to read and discuss literature as a family group in the home. 475 JUNE 1965 The literature titles and objectives for 1965-66 are as follows: Lesson 1, for October 1965: Good Versus Evil, Part | (pp. 281-328 of text). Objective: To show literature's concern with man's struggle to triumph over evil and accomplish good. Lesson 2, for November 1965: Good Versus Evil, Part Il (pp. 329-360 of text, supplemented by pp. 246-280). Objective: To show that problems of good and evil involve problems of personal choice. Lesson 3, for January 1966: Growth Through Experience (pp. 113-123 and 179-197 of text). Objective: To show how literature dramatizes the fact that sometimes we learn through experience and sometimes we resist learning to remain unchanged. Lesson 4, for February 1966: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part | (pp. 363-371, 380-385, and 397-404 of text). Objective: To examine the nature of grief and man's resources in time of suffering. Lesson 5, for March 1966: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part Il (pp. 372-379, 386-396, and 405-419 of text). Objective: To show how hardship and suffering can strengthen character if we respond to them maturely. Lesson 6, for April 1966: Facing Death, Part | (pp. 420-439, 445-447, and 473-482 of text). Objective: To consider death, viewed with relationship to different life situations. Lesson 7, for May 1966: Facing Death, Part Il (pp. 443-444 and 448-472 of text). Objective: To help us view death with confident affirmation rather than with dread. Summer Morning Christie Lund Coles The morning is delicate And lupine blue; Green as an apple Before its time to crimson. The water is silken, Glossy movement; And whispered, Melodious music. The earth is inlaid With sun and shadow. The trees are green tongues Saying secrets. Listen. Magnanimity Kathryn Kay | reached on tiptoe To the sky To pluck a tiny seed, My fingertips stretched heaven high, My heart strained with its need. But oh, my feet were low in sand 1 could not reach that far— And then a seed dropped in my hand And blossomed to a star! 476 A WISHING WELL FOR THE BRIDE (Continued from page 440) To make the two uprights (one on each side of the opposite sides of the well), cut two pieces of 1"x4" lumber 72, inches long. These uprights will extend from the bottom of the well to the top of the roof. Saw the top of the uprights to a point at a 45° angle (which makes the top of each upright triangular in form). Nail the two uprights to the inside of two opposite sides of the frame, placing each upright directly in the center of the side of the frame. To support the roof of the wishing well and to provide for attaching the dowel stick to hold the well bucket, prepare two crosspieces of 1"x2" lumber, and saw both ends of each crosspiece to a point so that they will fit under a sloping roof. Nail the two crosspieces to the uprights 8" below the point at the top of each upright. The rod for the bucket pulley is a one inch in diameter dowel stick which fits into two small wooden blocks (one on each upright), which are hollowed out to fit the ends of the dowel stick, and are nailed to the uprights. The bucket pulley is made of two circles of 34" plywood cut 8 inches in diameter, and one piece of 34" plywood cut in a circle 6" in diameter. The smaller circle is then placed between the two large circles, and the three parts are nailed together. A hole is drilled in the center of the pulley so that the dowel stick can be placed to reach between the uprights to hold the pulley in place. For the roof of the well, use a piece of corrugated cardboard 36" square, scored in the center so that it will bend in half to make the pointed roof. Fill in the triangular ends of the roof with pieces of cardboard to fit the openings, and nail the completed roof to the crosspieces on each side. For the rim of the well (which will be fitted around the top edge of the original square frame), cut a circleshaped piece of cardboard (outside measurements 35" in diameter and 6" wide), making a hole in the center of the circle. Cut one side of the circle open so that it can be fitted around the rim (top edge of the well frame). Repeat the process and make another circle for the bottom (base) of the well. Where necessary, notch the circles so that they can be fitted neatly onto the square wooden frame. A piece of heavy corrugated paper (in brick design) 34" high and 114" long is then arranged as a covering around the well and is tacked to the frame. Hang a cardboard bucket (or a small waste basket with a bale fastened to it) to the pulley. The rope for attaching the bucket, the bucket itself, and the pulley are sprayed with gold paint. The roof of the well (both the top and the underside), the uprights, and any other visible wooden parts of the well are also sprayed with gold paint. Flowers are arranged in the well bucket, with sprays hanging gracefully over the edge. Potted plants or cut flowers of any kind available may be arranged along the rim of the well and placed at the base of the frame. Gifts for the bride are placed inside the well, each gift package containing a special wish for the bride—in harmony with the "wishing well." Smaller wells made of cardboard or paper may be used as table decorations, and very small wells make appropriate favors. This wishing well provided the theme for the General Board of Relief Society shower given for SecretaryTreasurer Hulda Parker at the time of her marriage to Elder S. Dilworth Young. HAWAIIAN TOURS May, June, October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88, 89, 90 (Eight Lectures) by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price One Dollar Available end of June from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 Write for Extension Publications Catalog listing talks given at BYU by General Authorities Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! % Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, ribbon flowers, satin fruit & many others. Write for new catalog. 50c Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY CO. New Address 3220 So. State, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL Get much more from your vacation travel. Our program offers so much more because you learn about the places you visit from a professional educator and expert tour director. WORLD'S FAIR TOURS June 2-30 or Aug. 23-Sept. 17........$344.00 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT & WORLD'S FAIR July 21-Aug. 18 on. Eee$344.00 July 23-31 (Air)..... Cececeeeseeeeseeeoeee 299.00 HAWAII PARADISE TRIP June 14-July 11 MEXICO ARCHAEOLOGICAL TOUR YOUTH CAMPING-HOTEL TOURS ALL SUMMER A wonderful graduation gift R seeseesseecenees$226.00 RIVER TRIP.. 40.00 $550.00 TRAVEL INSTITUTE 278 E. 9th South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Phone — 328-4907 Superintendent John C. Josephson Registrar Barbara B. Amott 478 June 12-July 3 WORLD'S FAI MEXICO _...$216.00 $243.00 HAWAII...$499.00 Other Trips Also FAITH BUILDING / PERSONALLY CONDUCTED OURS © Cumorah Pageant and World's Fair Tours 1. Air Tour leaving Salt Lake July 29th. Eight days including the Pageant, three days in New York, and two days in Washington D. C. 2. Bus Tour leaving Salt Lake July 24th. Twenty-one days through all the famous Church history places and The World's Fair, Washington D. C. And Williamsburg. Name:... MURDOCK Address:. City: -.... TRAVEL BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 3......... 60 Zone 7 ve. 805 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 80 riews PRESS THE HOLY LAND « CUMORAH PAGEANT AND WORLD'S FAIR © Holy Land Tours 3. Leaves: Oct 1. Twenty-two days of worry-free travel. From Istanbul, to Jerusalem, and Athens with your own Murdock guide. Send for full particulars now: Ce eeeeeeeeereseeeseesEeseoeseeeHeeeeesesresos Murdock Travel, Inc., 14 South Main Street Salt Lake City — Phone: 328-3161 R. S. June '65 eeoceeecocoes, CeoeeeeeececesreeeeereseeoeeeseEeHeHFeSeSHFSESeZeeee HAWAIIAN TOUR 17 days — July 23-August 8 HILL CUMORAH 28 days — July 11-August 7 16 days — July 24-August 8 22 days — July 24-August 14 Includes Black Hills Passion Play 26 days — July 20-August 14 CANADIAN ROCKIES AND NORTHWEST TOUR 15 days August 8-22 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR 8 days August 22-29 NEW ENGLAND AND CANADIAN FALL TOUR 30 days Sept. 4—Oct. 3 Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 479 Zone 1 and 2......55 Zone 6.....:..... 90 101 Mrs. Adelia Felt Young Salt Lake City, Utah 95 Mrs. Isbell Christensen Overson Richfield, Utah 9 Mrs. Mary Johannah Lundquist Glines Tridell, Utah Mrs. Laura Precinda Meservy Hiatt Springville, Utah Mrs. Ida R. McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Serena Jacobson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Bruning Tohoma Park, Maryland 93 Mrs. Lois Ann Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Dearden Hardman Granger, Utah Mrs. Roseanna Neagle Lunt Cedar City, Utah 9? Mrs. Ada Ester King Loveland Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Emma Elizabeth Metcalf Brown Springville, Utah Mrs. Emma Helen Hess Van Ordstrand The Dalles, Oregon Mrs. Emma Clark Judd Magrath, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Susie Knapp Campbell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Ines Estella Fillmore Elmer Payson, Utah Mrs. Mary Etta Cox St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Butt Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Maude E. Crane Mellville Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eliza Ward Ramshaw Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Estella Johnson Ellsworth EI Monte, California Mrs. Mary J. Ence Reber Mesquite, Nevada Mrs. Ellen Mathilda Stewart Crittenden 9] Mrs. Lily Ann White Parker Enola Chamberlin The desert has the foothills Though they're not so very high. The foothills have the mountains To set their long sights by. And the mountains if they need it, Have the far wide reach of sky. 480 Kennewick, Washington San Jose, California New Books for Your Family Home Library The SACRAMENT of the LORDS SUPPER The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper by Alan P. Johnson The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is a reading list must for those seeking to understand the real significance of the Sacrament and learn of its origin and history. Alan Johnson is the author of the best selling Fasting - Second Step to Eternal Life. This new Johnson volume promises to be equally as popular. $2.75 Deseret COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA The Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, Volumes | - IV, by Roy W. Doxey The thrilling words of the prophets amplify and give us deeper understanding of the sacred Doctrine and Covenants. These four volumes of inspiration and enlightenment are invaluable raferance: for every Latter-day Saint library. The author is a well known L. D. S. Scholar who has also penned The Doctrine and Covenants Speaks. $4.25 per volume Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check L] money order []. | have an account, please charge []. Amount $............. For (1) The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper or (2) The Doctrine and Covenants Speaks. Please indicate. Which volume or volumes Residents of Utah, please add 3!/9°% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4°, sales tax. R. S. June '65 "It's just the berries!" An old English expression of highest approval is 'It's just the berries!" U & | Sugar is 'just the berries' throughout the year for every culinary or cooking purpose. And on berries of any kind, it truly brings out the natural flavor! It gives every consumer a natural energy lift, too! Energy High U and I, The Sugar From Our Land. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah % ox ii * i Grey AS a SH ae tac ay '' ' ¢ suizebeyy AASIOOS JSON SUL "faeces ay > a € ei —- Bes Bolle The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: INustrations: Weemuweh Margery S. Stewart The mist has purple in it, Inside the chill, the sea blows. | should be used to summer Severing the day's hours On these flowing hills. But this is not the folding Away of a year but the ripping Of remembrance. | should name this sea edge home, Fall feathers over the dove cote In the tender hollows. Why soar the cliffs? Climbings? Wind gilded mountains of my Birth land? They invade me.! Feel snow only a storm away... | hear rains falling on dust-leafed Alders.... | feel poplars probing The weathers. They cry me home. But | cannot.... | have seen birds in the sunny Springtime here, scolding The rich lawns, drooping on the Wires, waiting for the release... When it came, uncurling cramped Wing to leap iceward on the Airy rivers. Let it not be Too long for me. Castle in Austria Transparency by Alpha Photo Associates Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Laguna Beach, California, by Josef Muench Dick Scopes Mary Scopes My husband and | both enjoy the Magazine. It serves as a comforter to us. We especially enjoy all the words of wisdom and we. Liked the story "Valentine's Day,'' by Helen H. Trutton, in the February issue. Before we came here, we were in the Southern States Mission, and it was like a wonderful visit home to see the Singing Mothers of the South Georgia District recently in our Magazine—all those familiar faces smiling at us over 11,000 miles away! E. Deanie Teuscher Guam, Marianna Islands The Magazine is interesting, educational, and objective. By means of it | have had the privilege of knowing more of our North American sisters, and many of our Church leaders. It is a pleasure to see the pictures of the bazaars and the beautiful ideas for handicrafts. Rhina P. De Viacava Valparaiso, Pert | have read from the pen of Blanche Kendall McKey many beautiful and inspirational poems and stories. ''Never Land and Home," in the April Magazine is no exception. In a 1926 college yearbook,! Treasure this bit of advice, as | left for the mission field: ''Speak up real bravely and organize.'' This gentle, sweet wisdom from a patient, lovely speech teacher—Blanche Kendall McKey. LaVina Norman Holman Pocatello, Idaho The way to build a testimony is to improve in knowledge of the gospel by reading good literature. Before | became a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine | was like a cabbage— | just grew. But since | have this wonderful book I have learned many things to improve myself and my family. There is something for everyone in this Magazine. Willehmina McAlister Rockhampton Branch Australian Mission 482 | am so completely impressed by this year's new literature text ''Out of the Best Books" that | feel prompted to express myself to you. | love teaching from the text. It is truly a masterpiece of criticism and selection. 1! Am so very grateful for the literature program in Relief Society. My group loves the lessons. I truly believe the greatest minds we can learn to know have been those in the past who have written. Again, | am grateful for Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas who did such an outstanding service in compiling the book. Mrs. Lloyd C. Miller Provo, Utah | have really enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. We were living in an area where we had to travel about twentyfive miles to church, and if the weather was bad, as it was most of the winter, we couldn't make it at all. There were so few women in the ward who could get to Relief Society that most of the time there wasn't any. So the Magazine was a special comfort and blessing. | look forward to receiving it each and every month, even though we now live where 1 can attend meetings regularly. Helen Anderson Sacramento, California | think the story ''A State of Mind," by Lael J. Littke, in the April Magazine is one of the best published in quite some time. The theme has universality, the characters are real, and the author shows understanding of all ages; no rough places, no overwriting. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is an inspiration and a great help to us in our home, and to me personally in the work in the Chilean Mission. | work as First Counselor in the Relief Society of the mission, and often refer to old numbers of the Magazine, as well as to current numbers for help in my work. Gloria Schaffer Melendez Santiago, Chile. Relief Society Volume 52 Number 7 July 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 484 514 517 Pioneer Standards Dorothy Clapp Robinson Snatches of Happiness Elsie C. Carroll Don't Feel Sorry for Me Alice Gubler Sabin Fiction 488 494 521 Homecoming Mary R. MacArthur Postmark: London Agda Harlow Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 3 Shirley Thulin Generali Features 482 500 502 503 528 560 From Near and Far Editorial: A Goodly Heritage Vesta P. Crawford Notes to the Field: Change in Lesson Order Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 505 Sunday Is Still Sunday When You're Camping Leola Hacken 507 Easier Summer Living Dorothy Hicks 509 Sleepwear and Sunsuits Janet W. Brzeze 510 Food With Foreign Tastes Florian H. Thayn 512 Something Beautiful Joyce L. Canham 513 Knitted Lace—A Lovely Art 515 The Neighbor Plate Betty G. Spencer 516 Gleanings From the Summer Nancy M. Armstrong Lessons 535 Theology for October—God's Power in the World Roy W. Doxey 541 Visiting Teacher Message for October—'And I Give Unto You a Commandment...." Christine H. Robinson 543 Work Meeting for September—Teaching the Gospel In the Home—Vocational Goals and Marriage Alberta H. Christensen 549 Work Meeting for October—Molding a Happy Life—Using One's Resources to Find Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine 551 Social Science lesson for October will be printed in the August Magazine 551 Literature for October—Good Versus Evil—Part I Bruce B. Clark Poetry 481 Heimweh Margery S. Stewart Prodigal, by Carol Ottesen, 487; Whither, by Iris W. Schow, 492; Let Me Remember Her, by Christie Lund Coles, 493; Dear Lord, by Mae L. Curtis, 502; Deep Summer, by Vesta Fairbairn, 504; In the Pyrenees, by Diane Houghton, 506; Of the Heart, by Linda Clarke, 520; A Wish, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 527; A Way of Peace, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 542; Love Is, by Eva Wiiles Wangsgaard, 548; While Apart, by Sylvia Lustig Bennion, 557; Incident of the Red Rose, by Lael M. Hill, 558; Moon-Beguiied, by Ethel Jacobson, 560. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return. Postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsibie for unsolicited manuscripts. @ Jesus tells of a king who, before he went to war, sat down and counted the cost. Our pioneer grandparents also did that before taking up their journey. Behind, they were leaving the familiar, the known. Ahead lay the unfamiliar, the unknown, the challenges of which they might be poorly prepared to meet. Individually the pioneer made his choice, and the choice once made, he used all his resources in an attempt to meet the responsibilities that went with it. He put faith in his God, trust in his leaders, and he developed muscle and judgment. He quickly learned that his welfare depended on the welfare of the company. The pioneers, as a whole, gave their 484 on Clapp Robinsc best to the cause. It was a journey for stout hearts and strong bodies; it was a journey that produced great men; it was a journey that brought forth a growing spiritual nation of the Lord. The pioneer could do this because he could say with sure conviction: "I am a man; I came into the world possessing certain attributes and powers, and God has given me the strength to develop them for my welfare and that of others." History has proved he did have that strength. Again today we face a future that is uncharted. Many minds are riddled by doubts and fears. Strange new values are being advanced as necessary to survival. | | Living has become so complex that many of the ablest minds are ready to throw aside all the old values. There seems to be a nebulous line between right and wrong in the minds of many. There seems to be a strong tendency, especially among some young people, and even some fathers and mothers, to show no reverence toward God or their bodies. The mothers of today are faced with a frightening challenge. How can they rear men and women of honor and integrity when, from all sides, posters, TV, radio, and magazines flaunt the glorification of selfishness, immorality, violence, self-love and self-gratification? The task is not easy. It has not been easy in any generation. The way of ease is not the way of growth. Our children came into this life with the same potentials of strength as have the children of other generations. They must be taught to count the cost before succumbing to many present-day theories and practices. They must be schooled in the graces and sacrifices that produce character. They should know the meaning of the words of Alma, "For every man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey...." "But, Grandma, times have changed." How often we hear this excuse! "'We don't do things that way these days." True, times have changed, but human urges and wants have not. It is hard for children to realize that their parents went through the same emotional adjustments that they face. David, the young son of Jesse, met and conquered Goliath; an PIONEER STANDARDS eight-year-old pioneer boy crept alone through the darkness of night over trackless hills to summon help for his people who were trapped by Indians; today a young lad faced his gang bent on deviltry and said, 'Count me out." Those were the times, and these are the times when the same brand of courage is needed; and the results will be the same. David won the battle for his king; the pioneer boy saved his people. The boy who said, "Count me out," gave strength to weaker boys who were waiting for his decision. Today we live in a climate of "sive me." The pioneer would have been insulted if offered something for nothing. Taking care of himself and his family was the test of his manhood. How do we help our children to grow strong and self-reliant? The way any skill is acquired— by patience and practice—the same way a pianist perfects his playing, or a basketball player develops quickness of sight and muscular agility. Fine in theory, but how do you control practice? There seems to be no one sure answer. It would be a wise parent, indeed, who could foresee every contingency. Wherever the way lies, our Heavenly Father is not going to put a finished script in our hands. "... For he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant.... For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves..." (D&C 58:26, 28). Parents must keep alert and teachable and develop their own powers by "faith and by study." 485 JULY 1965 There is no lack of signposts. Our Church magazines and other magazines carry articles by recognized authorities. President McKay has said, "To be trusted is more to be desired than to be loved." Trust implies self-discipline, honor, and promptness. The climate of the home seems to be basic to all training of children. Much training is caught rather than taught. It might be helpful to observe the methods used by parents who seem to be making a success of rearing their families. One mother of a family of husky, rowdy boys doesn't make a big production out of their training. Their behavior is taken as a matter of course. They laugh and sing and work and play together. They fill their Church assignments; they are active in school and civic projects; they have a togetherness won by prayer and appreciation. Where there is appreciation there is thankfulness. Gratitude does not breed discontent. Perhaps success with families comes as a by-product as does happiness. A man who is determined to make a _ success of rearing his family might be contrasted with a man who helps his children reach their full potentials. No difference between the two except attitude, and attitude predetermines method. A fourth grade boy announced to his class at school that his birthday was tomorrow after school. He assured the teacher his mother had said he might invite the entire class. Next morning, with his mother standing by, he confessed to his classmates it was not his birthday and there would 486 be no party. Perhaps there might be one on his birthday but not before. Harsh? Did his mother make a big thing out of a small lie? A little girl who thought money was made to spend earned some by helping a neighbor clean her yard. The rake handle rubbed a blister on the palm of the girl's hand. She priced everything in the dime store that she thought was worth her blister. She came home with all her money still clutched in her hand. The great men and women who have risen from poverty give proof that gratification of every wish and whim is not necessary for development. In searching the lives of great men who came from wealthy homes, we find they were strictly disciplined in their youth. A distinction should be made between truly great men and men of great reputation. THE pioneer child provided his own amusements to a large extent. Two pioneer boys built a small adobe mill and hammered together some small molds. Small adobes made wonderful playhouses for small girls. Through their play the boys learned the fundamentals of brickmaking. On the market today are innumerable toys that can develop a child's or teenager's skills far beyond a pioneer parent's wildest dream. A visit to a grade or high school science fair is a revelation to the uninitiated. Again nature is the same but the settings and tools are different. Buying amusements just for amusement's sake can end in a search for thrills. The outstanding men of today are those who have risen from the ' Wan obey that law. Ave moved into ferent World tha aria ign ¢;, aT, A ay é Yise to €Y moral JA nd s Wwillin ess t hreatens s lp that is nN the one We the nation, A Nation falls when family life js Corrupt, he Price OF survival] Comes high! Should have h He's SUCh a litt} Why didn't | hol eld tight to his hand, e fellow. D tighter to his hand? A maze of Sidewalks And Strange 8round. D there Is that his Shirt, though? Yes, I've Washed 2nd ironed it many times.! Ought to know. ] Slipped my hang in his. 487 everence for Scientifically. An entirely dif. The tide f encro hing evils that Onorable and noble in our SoClety, Ag the family 80es, so 20es ~" / m Alma gathered her books and purse from the car and walked up to the house. It's good to be home, she thought, as she walked in the door, and it's Friday— that's always good news. "That you, Mom?" Larry ambled into the living room and planted a kiss on Alma's cheek. "How was school?" "Pretty wild today, dear. How was yours?" "Okay. But those men aren't through with the bathroom yet. They left right after I got here, and they said to tell you that there's some odd part they need 488 Homecoming | Mary R. MacArthur to finish the plumbing that they can't get until tomorrow." "Oh, no! You mean everything is still in pieces?" "Ves," Alma picked her way through the dining room into the bathroom to inspect the invisible progress. Her plumbing had recently collapsed for the third time that autumn, and she had finally called in a plumber who had spent the week tearing out, repairing, and trying to renew the ancient fixtures. But everything had gone more slowly than expected, and nothing worked yet. Even worse, all the movable contents of the roomy old bathroom were piled and stacked in the adjoining room. Alma's inspection was cut short by the ringing of the telephone. She stepped into the dining room to answer it. "Surprise, Mommy—it's I!" Her daughter Kristy's excited voice pierced through the telephone and made Alma's heart leap. "Darling, how are you? Are you calling from school?" "No, and you'll never guess where I am. I'm in Bakersfield, and I'll be home in two hours!" "In Bakersfield! How did you get there? And why aren't you at school?" "Calm down, Mom! Everything's wonderful. You know that fellow Ted that I wrote you about? He offered me a ride down for the week end in exchange for a date with him to the big football game tomorrow. We didn't have any afternoon classes, so we got an early start today." "Sweetheart, it will be so wonderful to see you! I can't tell you how much we've missed you." "Oh, Mommy, I can hardly _ wait to get there. But, Mom— Lisa is with me, too. You remember the German girl in my dorm that I told you about? She seemed so lonesome... And I'm dying to have you meet her. Ted brought his sleeping bag—lI don't think Larry will mind having him on the floor in his room, do you? And Lisa can share my room. Is it all right?" "Why... Yes, of course." Though positively overwhelmed, Alma managed to make some HOMECOMING sort of reassuring noise. "But why didn't you tell me earlier in the week so I could have prepared a suitable homecoming for you?" "Oh, Mom, I knew you would kill yourself getting everything ready if I told you, and you're just too busy during the week. Besides, we didn't really know what our plans were until yesterday. Listen, Mom, our three minutes are up. Don't worry—we'll love things just as they are." _ As Alma said goodbye, a wave of panic swept over her. Kristy's first visit home from the university, and no plumbing! Two college friends coming with her. Her brain racing wildly, Alma ran for the vacuum cleaner. "Larry! Larry! Get in here! We've got a miracle to work!" Larry was sent off to the market with an impromptu shopping list, and Alma tackled the living room. As she straightened and dusted, she tried to remember what Kristy had said about her new friends, Ted and Lisa, in her letters. Ted was Kristy's first college boy friend—Alma remembered that her daughter had visited his lovely home near the college and had been impressed by his family. And Lisa? Let's see—her folks had left Germany in the thirties, and Kristy had said that they had become members of the Church while living in Switzerland. Oh, yes—Kristy had met Lisa at the Institute. Hadn't Kristy said that Lisa was fluent in four languages? Oh, my, thought Alma, looking around the small, well-worn living room. What in the world would those two think of this house? Alma 489 JULY 1965 was proud that she had been able to support her family with her teaching since her husband died, but how would it all look to Kristy now, after life at the university? Time to worry about that now, Alma thought as she finished the living room about all this stuff? I can't move it now—there just isn't time left. In desperation she spread clean sheets over the piles of bathroom stuff and headed for the kitchen, few minutes later she heard voices and the sound of car doors banging in front of the house. "Mother—we're here!" Cristy raced through the front door and threw herself into Alma's arms. Hugged Larry. "Oh, it's so wonderful to be home!" As. Kristy introduced her mother to her friends, Alma could hardly keep her eyes off her girl. How pretty she looks, Alma thought, and how happy! The tired youngsters collapsed ivi "Are you hun- - "T'd love to nuts. For the first time Alma took a g00d look at 490 for a doughnut and knocked over her cup of chocolate, "Oh, how awful of me!" Lisa jumped to her feet. "Mrs, Hargent, I'm so very sorry. What shall I do?" Alma watched the brown stain spread over the print slip cover. A unzipped the bright Cover, and winced at the sight of the ugly mohair sofa beneath. Oh, dear, she thought, we needed that camouflage! "Mother, what in the world is this?" Kristy was in the adjoin: ing room, gazing at the sheetcovered piles, "Why, that's a Surprise for you," Alma said lightly, trying not to let her embarrassment show. She told of her bathroom woes. "We'll have to play primitive tonight," she finished. "Miss anner next door is kindly lending us her facilities for the duration. You'll find a pile of towels by the back door." Kristy looked a bit desperate, and Alma tried to smile reassuringly at her daughter, The group broke up in a bustle of baggage hunting, sleeping bag unrolling, and goodnight calling. It was well past midnight when all was quiet again, and Alma sank exhausted into bed. THE next morning Alma was the first up, and she headed for the kitchen to clean up from last night's snack. The sight that met her eyes caused her to sink onto a kitchen chair, helpless with nearly hysterical laughter. Larry, fuzzy with sleep, stumbled into the room. "Mom, what's so funny?" Alma pointed to the kitchen sink. The whole counter was alive with ants—the little black grease ants, the nemesis of the California housewife. They had somehow found the tray with the crumbs of the midnight snack, and had brought colonies of comrades to the remains. "For Pete's sake, what's so funny about ants?" Larry demanded. "Your father and I used to have a grim family joke. Whenever we had a family crisis, three things always happened: the car broke down; the plumbing stopped; and the ants moved in." Larry grinned. "I'm afraid to go out and look at the car." Alma sent Larry off to find the ant poison and tackled the mess. The last dead ant and dirty dish had just been disposed of when Kristy burst in. "Morning, Mommy! It's so marvelous to be home! I'm starved!" And that was the way the week end went, Alma thought —not as an orderly succession of minutes and hours, but like a wave sweeping over her all at HOMECOMING once. The young people never seemed to wear out or get tired of talking—or eating. — Saturday night, while Alma was preparing dinner, Lisa quietly came into the kitchen. "May I do something to help, Mrs. Hargent?" Alma was about to say no when she noticed a certain wistfulness on Lisa's face. "If you'd like, dear, you could wash and slice these tomatoes." The two found themselves deep in conversation in a very few minutes. Alma discovered that Lisa had lived in Copenhagen, where both Alma's parents had been born, and she eagerly listened to the girl describe the city. As they put the dinner on the table, Lisa smiled at Alma and said, "It seems wonderful to be in a real home again. My mother is a widow, too. We have spent much of our time in hotels in recent years—being here reminds me of our home in Switzerland before my father died." At dinner, Alma started apologizing to the group for the inconvenience of the still halfdemolished bathroom, but was interrupted by Ted. "If you think this is bad, Mrs. Hargent, you ought to see the facilities in the dorm where I live!" Soon he had all of them roaring with laughter at tales of water fights in the freshman dormitory. Sunday morning Alma finally had a few minutes alone to visit with Kristy. Kristy couldn't talk fast enough to tell her everything she had saved up. "Mother, the girls are wonderful, all of them. I never dreamed living in a dormitory could be such a ball. Do 491 JULY 1965 you know what? I've been nom. Them to eat in the Car, Lisa came inated for President of Our wing!" to the Kitchen, She put her hand mse Proud o >» dear." on Alma's » and Alm turned Alma reach vi hugged and saw tears the 8irl's @ er daughter tightly "And P "I don't know ho to thank Proud of th hings 0u stand for you, M argent. This, ang € miss yoy uch, but we're for the wonderfy] Tistmas Invj S0 glad yoy' happy." tion. J Would like SO much for « Miss yoy all terribly, too." MY mother to meet you and your Kristy' Voice obbled bit children f ca e "Sometime Set awfyl] homeWould love to visit you at Christ right thing," "And if She can't, dear, ['}] be "Well, it Won't be Ieng unti] expecting you to Spend al] the Christmas Now. Darling, I was holidays With ys." Alma gave Just thinking | -- Will Lisa be able Lisa g hug, and handeq her the to fly to Europe to join her Sack fy]] of food. L id Larry bounded in, with Ted "T don't think SO—she Said right behing him, "What can we Something about her Mother carry out, Mrs, Hargent>» Planning on Visiting her at Schoo] "Hey," Larry broke in, "J for a Couple of Weeks," Ted he Was Welcome to Sleep on "Kristy, do you Suppose they my floor any time. Isn't that would enjoy Spending Christmas right?" €re with ys? Ik ur place "Sure Is, Ted," Alma Must seem lik hack af €rwhat az She h nded him thermos of ey re used 0, isa seemed ot choco] t 8lad to be in ome again.» "Then p be back," - i) "Mommy! You doll! What a laugheg. "Thanks, Mrs, Har Wonderfy] idea! I'll ask Lisa for everything." Another hu about it right away!" a kiss from Krist » and the 8roup So very Soon, it Seemed, the Was out the door, young folks Were Scrambling Alma sank down on the re. Around Ouse thering up Covered Nd enjoyed the their belonging While A] was quiet I een, she decided Mishing Sandwiches for 4 wonderful w k end 492 My thoughts © faced Like a turn to her @ The taxi stopped in an old part of the city that Sunday afternoon. Mary Wallace paid the driver and walked up to the large old house with its neat sign Rooms attached to the porch railing. As she rang the bell, she reflected in some surprise that she had never thought of Gram living in a place like this. It was as bad as Beth and Dave's apartment near the University of Chicago. For that matter, Mary thought, unless she told Jim she couldn't marry him, she would find herself in a place like this. Walking behind the landlady to Gram's second floor room, Mary smoothed her uniform skirt. The hall was dim, the carpet a faded pattern of red roses and green leaves, different from the bright entrance to the New York apartment she shared with two other stewardesses. The landlady called 'Mrs. Wallace, someone to see you!" and left Mary alone outside the door. Gram would be surprised. Mom had suggested several times that Mary stop to see Gram when a 494 flight took her that way. Mary would please both Gram and Mom, have a good visit with Gram, maybe even go to church with her, and still be back in New York for that breakfast date at the Waldorf with the captain before their flight left for London. Mary knocked impatiently, and Gram's voice, weak and distant, said "Wait, just a minute, please." In another moment Gram was opening the door, exclaiming "Mary, my dear girl!" and they were in each other's arms. Drawing Mary into the room, Gram said, "You caught me asleep that time." Mary noted the wrinkled bedspread and a heating pad where Gram had been napping. 'Oh, Gram! Aren't you feeling well?" "Tt's nothing, just my shoulder acting up. Guess I must not be in such great pain or I couldn't have dropped off to sleep like that.... But, Mary, where have you come from? And where are you off to?" "T've been in San Francisco. I'm going to New York. But we have the rest of the day to. Gether," Gram Smiled, "You'll want to freshen up. The bathroom'. Down the hal] to the right," was Spotless, a use. 'Share bath" Privileges" were Phrases Siduously Avoided when Ma Scanned the classifieg ads looking fora place to live, ary ran a comb th hair and applied fresh lipstick. This Visit to G I Make jt easier to Jim. She child or two, a man wel] | Career, Preferably Ww thousand dollars in k, but definitely a man who had done his a Y Service, Is Mission, 8taduated from College and acquired al] thedegrees he Planned on She hadn't seen Jim for over two years, nor heard from him I've Only a year left at the university, and then of one of the Paddies a differe Wheattfields>" "What You see in Rome?" Mary dered how Gram knew about al] them can let you Stay here» She these Places, Crossed the Toom to git on the "Did You go to Odense, edge of the bed. Hans Christian Andersen', birth. "Mary, dear, [ Would be wel. Place?" come to live ith a of the "No, Gra » but j Copenhagen and I Jove Visitin them ften Sonally, "Fo never Married." Ingered a geranium leaf in the "But he Was rich and famous Window box, lifted the White and Welcome at the Ing's Court." tage Curtain and let j Op, and "Oh, he S Tich and famous came back Stand b tam all right, but that ne ade up "But, Gram, don't you see? Or not having 4 wife and children There hings you of his ow He was IN love man on't even Now about You don' lovely fairy Stories 5 of heart, ram Interrup ed, "w, Il, ache. So Say the Little Mer ave a ¢ e of wn art Maid ] g from the Museum t th aterfront Park ' S soul, lonely and fee]. Landscapes, new Showings every 99 ing left out of things, Season, unset, m They were both quiet a MoPortrait gallery js at the Church ment, and th asked ednes ay afternoons en J "How do yoy lik My home ave t 80 Over and sit at ary?" the back for the p Openin Mary 4volded Gram' Inquiring exercises, [ may never have seen look continued "You've 'The Blue Boy' or « Girl with never been + See me here before." the Torn Hat' the orj al, but "O ram! J Just isn't I've see © wonderfy] child fair!" Portraits. « te) ith issin Gram S startled nd Ma ront Tooth,' or instance or Went on, th ords mbling Out, § 'Gir] Ma Pinafore'; "After Hl you' for your Mary aughed, « amily and your Church you live an answer fo everything!" Sh €re, crowded Into a little rented dropped T knees 5, ide Toom all a One." the beg. « » Seriously, Gram my home?" As she answered, Gram looked "IT don't know how to Say it— at the picture of Gramp on the "You won't even let me fee] SOrry for you, Gram." "Sorry for me?" Gram reached out to touch Mary's hand. "Can you think of 4nyone else right off most gone, Meeting wil] utes," one of the things jt ©an still do jg Set me to church," Walk her, and replied, "When it Comes to flying miles you have It all Over me, but it akes mo e years 2ccumulate Walking miles,. I've alway liked Walk lot of Walking In our lot of talking With it." They Could h the Opening Song, "Cour e the Lord on our side." That was what m had Written, Mary Temembered "With the Lord 9 Our side, We could Make oyt just ine," Sensible as Mary Was, she Was not a le t Im oyt of he ront ¢ have mm blessed om this Istance the man could almost be mis taken for Jj * NO matter how she answered the letter, Mary thought, 8ive Jj another two or three years, an that's just Where Jim wo Id be. T,..6f urse there w S no sti OW she Would answer the lette Th lessing Over, the father lifted his bab Up for all O admire, Then he ame swiftly down the aisle baby father = the -+. Mother Plays the organ. |. Told him I'd hold the JULY 1965 moved closer to the aisle, drawing her skirt away from the baby's blanket. She had gone to fast and testimony meetings all her life, and this followed the same pattern; put sitting by Gram added a new dimension to the experience. AX CURLY-HEADED eight-year-old was confirmed by his father. Gram looked a little misty-eyed as if she were seeing another boy and another father, maybe Mary's father, with Gramp confirming him—before he was Gramp, when he was father, or Eric, as he had always been to Gram. Just as Jim would always be Jim to her. There she was again, thinking of Jim! How could he always get into the picture? Gram held the baby tenderly. Mary wondered, was Gram, then, thinking of her own children, her grandchildren, the little guide scout who had grown up to be the father of this baby and was now in the bishopric? Cram's and Mary's eyes closed for the sacrament prayer, and Mary could almost feel the spirit of prayer around them. For what did Gram, pray s0 fervently? Mary bowed her own head and added her prayer, "Dear Father, whatever Gram wants, make it come true. I thank thee for my visit with her today. T meant to cheer her lonely old life, but it is she who is making me glad, although I can't explain quite how." The testimonies began, but, through Gram's eyes, even the testimonies were different. The young deacon speaking so earnestly, his face puckered, made Mary glad the people listened to him so politely. The scoutmaster 498 spoke next, grateful for his opportunity to serve. A woman in the row ahead told of her joy in having a missionary son. Mary remembered that all four of Gram's sons had served missions. A man near the front expressed thanks for his recovery from a serious operation, for the power that had guided the surgeon's hands. And_ then, the young mother of the baby Gram held went to the pulpit from her place on the stand near the organ. With brimming eyes, she thanked her Heavenly Father for the gospel, for her husband, and for her baby, in that order. Mary looked down at the sleeping infant, slid off her glove, and gently touched the soft cheek. Gram misinterpreted the gesture and settled the baby in Mary's lap, linty blanket and all. Before Mary could give the baby back, Gram was on her feet, bearing her testimony. Mary listened and unconsciously held the baby close, lifting it to her shoulder, brushing the tiny ear with her lips. Gram _ was saying,: Now that my family is scattered, you are my family, each of you. Each baby is mine, each little child, each young person, the mothers and fathers, the middleaged, the old. I thank the Lord for all of life—for marriage, for childbirth, even for death which is the door to eternal life. I thank him for the gift of memory through which I can again walk and talk with my husband, clasp my children to me.... I thank him for my granddaughter Mary. She has traveled widely and is willing to share her adventures with me. Help me to share my adventures with her... I know the gospel is true and that nothing but living the gospel can bring us joy...." 6c Arter Gram sat down, Mary continued to hold the baby, who had awakened and was looking at Mary's face with all the intensity of the near-sighted newborn. She lowered him gently to her Jap—her uniform was due for a cleaning anyway. During the remaining testimonies, Mary looked at a very young baby for the first time, the miniature hand and wrist, the baby hair, the wee mouth and wobbly head. How helpless and frail! What a miracle that he would someday be a man. The baby clung tightly to her little finger until his mother came to get him at the meeting's close. In the foyer, it was almost like a receiving line, all the people wanting to meet Gram's granddaughter. Then Mary and Gram were back in Gram's room, with POSTMARK: LONDON only fifteen minutes before the taxi would come. "How's your shoulder, Gram?" Mary asked, and Gram said quickly, "Not worth discussing when there's something better to talk about.. Before you leave, tell me, is that young man of yours home from his mission yet?" "Yes, Gram—but who told you about Jim?" "Your mother felt pretty bad when you turned him down.... He went to England, didn't he?" "Yes, Gram, and he baptized more than one hundred people while he was there." "You're pretty proud of him, Mary?" "Yes, I guess I am." "You're twenty-three now?" "Yes, Gram." "T was twenty-three when your father was born...." "Gram, let me ask you a question, as the testimonies were being borne, did you pray for me?" "T always pray for you, Mary, and for all Eric's and my family. And I always pray that I can be of some use to someone as long as I live." Too quickly, the taxi was waiting. At the door Gram said, "It's a wonderful day we live in, Mary. Tomorrow at this time you'll be in London. T'll look for your card. I don't have one from London yet." Mary stooped to kiss Gram's cheek. "Yes, Gram, it is a wonderful day we live in. If letters are too slow, there's direct longdistance dialing! Take good care of the London card. It may be the last one with a foreign postmark you'll get from me." 499 WS Moving Strength Of faith and SPONsible for the buildin i imprint and a Of Zion to the f. Op "for their line j gone out through a end of the World,. |." Organization in the § the trajj Of the Plains. The de In illages Were nN and men wh Possesse Ove of land SCaping anq an Srowing Ereenery e COuraged d NStructeg Ose wh thoug t the des Could not redeemed. At labor w, needed in the Onques the lan N seasonal] Planning. Valley Saints rejoiced a developed t haracterist of 8ratitude for corn." Industrioys and independent int Were early Schooleq heir Persona] attitudes, the Pioneers and directeq in group responsibility, h Number 7 \ Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer "Pastur - Clotheq with flocks; the valle "+. COVereg Over with In the va} €YS—traise Il th U Can, eno 8) for y Urselves and your familj da Plus for the Poor and unfort ate. The School Ouse, the: tinghouse " th "Relief 3 Clety halls" anaries the tithing ff. R OUP project and 'MPortant € people as the Erection of their Own homes. It was with SaCrifice and pride that temples Were erected jn the days of Poverty among the Saints, here Was an early learning Of the Principles of individual} d deve} Pment t Ough Cooperatj "Nd Concern Or all the Children of avenly F. Ther. Th € Was elievin men and women Should Stand tajj and Strong anq ""POssess their own Souls," for Unless they had developed industry, Sratitude, and Serenity Within eMselves, they Would not have ndant Sift to j rt Others IS Not st 8e but nly an tural €lopment that the early Saints » IN the g Cross the ins, an IN the y, leys Were Pers. MW ny, b € evenj g Campfire, Minute] reported the Ents, the births 3 d the de ' Singing the serm ns, the hardships and the rejoicings, the Morning and the evening Prayers. Traveler reported, "It was thus that | began the €stablish. Ranch o Y father' house in land." People w ave faith in Vine 8uidance are aid nd directeg nd their Individual Strengths in omplishing th great f Placing first IN8s first. Th Ospel was the radiant assing |j ht, an ' Within tha en Omen IF child Each ¢ Id was regarded vinely given t, to be directe INSpired long a Pathwa ha would leaq 8ress. Par ts realized th blessin f amily as an nit. Aboy Il, any of them €emed now th 'MPortance e In liv th 80Spel 'Mparting he glad r their testim nles we destineg « Or all th Orders —V. P. C Anna B. Hart Winniefreg Ss. Manwaring Alice L. Wilkinson Lenore ¢ Gundersen Edith s. Elliott Elna p. Haymond Irene w. Buehner Marjorie Cc. Pingree Florence J. Madsen Mary R Young Irene c Lloyd 'ariene ¢. Dekind Leone g. Layton Mary vy. Cameron Hazel s. Love Cleone rR. Eccles Blanche B. Stoddarg Afton w. Hunt Fawn H. Sharp Edythe K. Watson Evon W. Peterson Wealtha Ss. Mendenhaij Celestia J. Taylor Ellen N. Barnes Aleine M. Oung Isa T, Peterson: nne R., Gledhit) Kathryn Ss Gilbert losie B Fanny s. Kienitz Belva B. Ton Verda F. Burton Alberta Christensen Elizabeth B. Inters Zola J McGhie Myrtie R Olson Mildre y aRue y. 7] annon lice c Smith 502 Change in Order of Relief Society Lessons Attention is called to the change in the order of teaching the social science and literature lessons. Beginning with October 1965, the social science "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" lessons will be taught on the third meeting day of the month instead of the fourth in order that eight lessons may be presented in these correlation lessons. The literature lessons, formerly taught on the third meeting day of the month, will move to the fourth meeting day. Two social science lessons 'Teaching the Gospel in the Home" (the lessons for October and November 1965) will be printed in the August issue. The work meeting lessons for October, November, and December will be a continuation of the course '"'Molding a Happy Life," by Winnifred C. Jardine. Erratum In the Honor Roll for Nampa Stake (published in the May 1965 issue of the Magazine, page 381), the correct figures should be 1,000 subscriptions, and 980 members, resulting in 102 per cent, which places Nampa Stake among the ten stakes with the highest number of subscriptions. Dear Lord Mae L. Curtis Kindly give to me each day, A prayer to guide me on my way. A blessing, give me strength to live, And learn to love and to forgive. Help me pure and sinless be, To greet each day with faith in thee. the handicapped. Marian AnSinger; Margaret Bourke. Living ps, years Ee ee York, Olive Woolley Burt's thirty-fifth book a i tee 7 er Hn The First Book of Salt Was recently ration a teacher Children P eed oe ated rm Bil Morally religious > She also Chal - hotos. Relatin A — ihe, enged their intellect | 4€sthetic p rap ol ff, Interests t Visits ¢ alleries = Proce 8 in Chin » to an Oname Museums istorical atural Made 6 Salt, to carved figures se eauty spo and theaters MmusiSalt, to € Old Sattair Pavilion jn Cal events arm and friendly She "a - nformatiy yerest Opened heart d her Ome to =! N for = 8raders qd ages Visiting foreigners and lonesome eyond young People from Utah.: Six living Children are all faith Adrienne has selecte nd edited ful Latte aints distin 4 remark ble Collection f letters ex - ry ';, 8uished in their "espective fields. Her cerpts from diar les, addresses, and husbang is an internationally reother valuable historica| documents in nowned Physicist her book The American Enlightenment (Brazitlier Publishers), She declares c that the Period of the Founding FaBelle s Spafford, Genera} President a: - Of Relief Society, Was electeg Third thers was an "xceptional, indeed a Vice-President Of the American Mothoom ie Ay pail amen ers Committee, M 5, at a Siness; e is P, f extraordinary Men such as is rare. Of Cars. She attendegq he Na onal ©; 5 oC eiaren Lunch - May 7th. Aoe ly €ncountereg in Modern history. Ducted the Singing Mothers Of New Senator Margaret Chase Smith re. Ork and ew Jersey Stakes jn a cently spoke to a women's journal. N Or the - en j the eMinen American women Once again respecting and Practicing recently Selected to the Women's Hall fundamental truths 4nd basic Moral the World's Fair Were values, and 8etting away from Our This mountain pool of sunlight, Suddenly: Where no wind stirs The fragrant air, Deep Summer Vesta Fairbairn A crested jay, pert bird With flash of blue, Of cedar and fir, And midday warmth. This golden pool With brief, bright Flight. Through the scented air A feather flutters Down, And I grow aware Midsummer Is now. Is laden with scent of pine, Disturbs Or Camping kno Ood Supply of film, NSect-repelient fi be Over the Sa ] @MPfires b rom €8an to send wij? 4 joyful ws, Planning d, and Setti Can be a; family i Mping to oO © know that the Sabbath Prayer ang fe) Sacramen € value o Shhooks, aS near as p ne! Some - In fact, we fir, r happiest es. At ur family. And isad ay ap. Ts, for it is a mly be. Ranches is a Ossible One 505 JULY 1965 spot, the branch president had to send for more sacrament cups, because our family, plus two other visiting families, brought the attendance up to 200 per cent. The spirit there was wonderful, and we all saw that the teaching and the procedures were the same familiar ones we knew in our home ward. The next step, after planning where to stop over, from Saturday afternoon to Monday morning, is to find out the types of campgrounds available near the ward or branch. Perhaps your budget allows for a motel now and then. If so, this simplifies planning and probably puts you nearer the local chapel or hall where the ward or branch meets. The directory information your bishop gave you has given you names to contact Saturday afternoon, when you arrive in the town where you plan to attend church on Sunday. A phone call to the local bishop or branch president will not only tell you time schedules, but will also introduce you to a fine member of the Church who will undoubtedly be looking for your family and be ready to greet them and show them which classes to attend. Saturday is also the time to buy ahead all you will need to prepare Sunday's meals and Monday's breakfast. If you have camped before, you know this can be done. You'll have your favorite recipes, perhaps cottage-fried potatoes, no-bake cookies, and so forth. You'll know certain items can be stored, others must be used up. Applesauce cake, for instance, in a tight container, is still nice and moist for Sunday's dessert treat.; On Saturdays, we also like to have some Church magazines or books to read on Sundays. Mother and daughters may have to wait in the car while the boys and their father attend Priesthood meeting, and the time goes rapidly if something special has been saved and is a surprise for this time. Clothing may also be planned by mother. She knows which dresses and treusers are least likely to look crumpled. Of course, all Sunday clothing will be on hangers by Saturday night and look surprisingly well pressed after hanging overnight. Shoes (stored in plastic bags) can be slipped on the last thing. A time well loved and remembered is the gathering in the motel, the tent, or trailer house for family prayer. Usually, even the tiny children remember to thank their Creator for the beauties he has provided. After Sunday School you will be thrilled to see your children making new friends. They will have enjoyed their classes and will be eager to go back to sacrament meeting. Several times the local members have pointed out areas of great beauty we would have missed without their help. We have even enjoyed their hospitality on Sunday afternoons. Our son had a birthday one Sabbath while we were near Tillamook, Oregon, and some lovely members there invited all of us to their home overlooking the Pacific. While in Yosemite National Park, we traveled forty miles to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. The branch there, also, was full of friendly saints. Our children kept their attendance records intact and learned many lessons of worship. Many small branches provide excellent sermons and their members travel great distances to worship on the Sabbath. Children understand and appreciate these more after their own traveling. These members know, aS campers can learn, that '"'A Sabbath well spent brings a week of content." In the Pyrenees Diane Houghton Birmingham, England | had thought that beauty was no more, Pyrenees, Until | saw your mountains. Words do not go Where | have been, The sights I've seen, And beauty lives again. 506 For those three meals a day, check your cookbooks. You'll be Surprised to find how many of your favorite i i r hours, stored in the refrigerator until evening, and either served crisply cold, this summer. Your baking can be done in the morning, or, if you prefer, slip a cake, cookies, or what-have-yoy into the Oven after your evening meal and let it e. JULY 1965 the dryer, and put them away. Cut your ironing down to bare essentials. Such items as dish towels, sheets, and pajamas, for example, look nice when they are ironed, but they don't absolutely need it. And as with your washing, don't try to do all your ironing at one time, but do a little bit several mornings during the week. If you have a shady porch, move your ironing board out there and use an extension cord to plug in your iron. It's much more comfortable. And speaking of comfort, don't just stand there. Sit down to iron. You won't get nearly as tired. These are just a few shortcuts that can help make summer a time of easier living for mother, as well as for her family. Once you start looking, you'll probably find many more. Just make it a point to get as many jobs as possible out of the way during the morning. In the afternoon, do something that can be done while you relax. Darning socks, letting down hems, mending, and sewing on buttons are a few suggestions. Take some time just to relax each day, too. You'll feel better, and your family will appreciate your unruffled attitude. Anyway, happy summertime! And now here are the recipes I promised you earlier. FRANKFURTER-POTATO CASSEROLE Make a sauce by combining 1 can cream of celery soup, 34 cup milk, 144 cup finely chopped onion, and 2-3 teaspoons prepared mustard. In a buttered 114- quart casserole, arrange alternate layers of 4 cups diced, cooked potatoes (a good way to use leftover ones), the sauce, and 14 pound of frankfurters split lengthwise. Cover. Refrigerate until 45 minutes before serving time. Place in cold oven and bake covered for 30 minutes at 400 degrees; uncover and bake for 15 minutes more. Makes four servings. This is good as a change from potato salad, and really involves no more work or time. CASSEROLE STEW Roll 1 pound beef cubes in 2 tablespoons flour, 14 teaspoon salt, and a dash of pepper. Brown in 2 tablespoons shortening. Stir in 1 can tomato soup, 1 cup water, and 1 minced garlic clove, if desired. Cover and cook slowly for one hour. Add 6 carrots cut in small pieces, and 8 smali white onions. Cover and cook for one hour more. Cool and place in refrigerator. Remove from refrigerator 30 minutes before serving time. Add one ten-ounce package frozen peas, cover, and cook for 30 minutes. For a thicker stew, uncover for the last ten minutes of cooking time. ORANGE SALAD Combine 1 package orange gelatin and 1 cup hot water. When gelatin is dissolved, add 14 cup cold water. Allow to cool, and before it begins to set, stir in 1 pint orange sherbet, 1 banana cut in slices, 1 can mandarin oranges drained, and 10 large marshmallows cut into small pieces. Chill until serving time. This is also good as a dessert. If you prefer, the mandarin orange juice may be used in place of the cold water. MACARONI-WIENER SALAD Mix 4 ounces (14 package) drained, cooked elbow macaroni with 1 tablespoon grated onion and 14 cup thin French dressing. Stir in 1 cup finely diced celery, 14 cup sliced radishes, 2 tablespoons minced parsley (if desired), and 4 thinly sliced cooked wieners. Season with salt and pepper, cover and chill until serving time. Season 14 cup dairy sour cream with 1 teaspoon mustard and fold into salad just before serving. This salad is good served ''as is'' or it may be used to stuff large, ripe tomatoes. If you stuff the tomatoes, you may want to double the proportions on the sour cream and mustard in the last step, and use half of this mixture to top the tomatoes after stuffing. This makes a hearty main dish for any summer evening. 508 sleepwear and Si Janet W. Breeze Li SS ie Here is an interesting idea for making the most of those larger material scraps: sleepwear or sunsuits for children can be constructed by using a different print of cotton for each pattern piece. If second-time-around buttons are used, and you have patterns on hand, the cost of such articles of clothing can be limited to thread, and elastic for pajamas. Best of all—children call them "fun clothes!" 509 (Continued from the June Magazine) For an easy Sunday supper, for firesides, or after the ball game, serve this 'make ahead" pseudo-Mexican casserole with a tossed salad and garlic bread, or just soda crackers. Tamale Corn (Mex-American) 2 cans cream-style corn 1 303 can tamales (including liquid) 1 dozen ripe olives (optional) 14 cup undiluted condensed milk 4 or 5 soda crackers 1-2 tbsp. Butter or margarine Empty tamales into casserole dish. Remove paper from tamales and cut each tamale into about 4 chunks. Add corn, olives, and milk. Mix lightly. Melt butter, roll crackers to crumbs. Mix with butter. Sprinkle over top of mixture in casserole. Bake at 350 degrees unti! It bubbles around the edge (about 30 minutes). Can be prepared ahead and reheated. Betty Graham brought a bit of her native Taiwan to us. She is a skilled nurse and cook. She says the Chinese do not measure, so these are "about" proportions, with her special directions and quantities. One can eat a great amount of rice prepared in this manner, because, as her husband says, "It doesn't swell after you eat it." Chinese Fried Rice Five cups long-grain, or water rice, where available. Wash under running water until the water is clear. Add water until it is 1 inch over the rice. Do not salt the water. Boil the rice until the water is about half gone. Cover and turn the heat to the lowest flame possible and let steam for about 40 minutes. Do not peek or remove the fid. Rice cooked by this method is not mushy. The kernels remain individual, and reheating will not destroy this quality. Cook 2 Ibs. Bacon chopped fine, until the fat is rendered, but the bacon is not brown and crisp. Drain all but about 1 tbsp. Grease. Add 2 bunches finely chopped green onions and 7 beaten eggs. Do not try to cook, or brown the | onions, but stir eggs and onions rapidly so the eggs will not become hard or tough. Add egg mixture to the hot rice and mix well. Add 1 cup soya sauce and continue mixing until all the rice is evenly coated. Serve hot. Fried rice may be reheated by adding water and heating on top of the stove, or in the oven in a covered casserole with water added. Since most families will not use this amount of rice profitably, Betty's recipe has been reduced to the following amounts with the awareness that 510 rate) LAR SYA Wey 600. Pe Micon yey) AD | Ci OY) "aie ¥. NY) Ai ' Ait Most housewives will add or subtract the amounts Preferences. 1, CUD rice, % to] Ib, bacon, | bunch 8Teen Onions Sauce. Eight-Layer French Torte has never seen an frozen Pound cake is €asier to Slice into thin | Cut evenly if the ¢ i e i 2to3 Cups Powdereq Suga Waxed Paper on flat Surface. S lice a layer from 4 Port Slice with hand to ke Crust side down. Spread top with th bar Chocolate (melted) 2-3t Sp. Condenseq mil JULY 1965 (When cold, filling should be of firm pudding consistency, so it will hold its shape. If it is too thin, layers will slip.) Cut second layer of cake from loaf and lift to top of first layer. Repeat filling spread. Continue this process until the entire loaf, except the top layer, is layered and spread. There should be 8 to 9 layers if the uncut loaf measured nearly 5 inches high. Now spread the entire loaf on the sides and top with frosting. Let set several hours or overnight at room temperature. To serve, cut in thin slices as you would slice bread, being careful to support each slice with spatula, and lift to a dessert plate. Hilo Coconut For a crispy, non-sweet, munching treat, try these coconut chips. Like peanuts, it is impossible to stop with just a taste. Break or saw a coconut in two. Place with cut sides up on cookie sheet and into oven heated to 300 degrees for half an hour, or until a knife run between the shell and the meat loosens the meat and it comes free in large pieces. Do not remove the thin brown coating clinging to the white meat. With a vegetable peeler, and working from the cut edge of the coconut meat, slice into thin ~ strips, keeping them as large as possible. Spread in broiler pan and sprinkle with salt, turning lightly once to mix salt. Heat the oven to about 200 degrees or less. Place pan of coconut slices in oven and let remain several hours or until dry. Coconut burns easily, so avoid using higher heat, but dry as you would dried corn. When chips are dry, store in airtight containers. SOMETHING BEAUTIFUL Joyce L. Canham In reference to the June 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, in particular, the article on making parchment stationery, by Peggy Tangren, I want to say "Thanks so much." Today I took a walk along an oft-traveled route where the scenery is weeds, vines, and a few wild flowers. When I stooped to pick. One particularly lovely bloom I decided to see if I could start my collection of flowers and grasses to press for my stationery. With my eyes thus opened, I suddenly beheld the beauty I could never have seen otherwise. Even from the unattractive slopes by the roadside I gathered some of the most beautiful plants IJ have ever seen. There were leaves shaped like birds, tiny blossoms hidden in the grass, and some of the grasses, having gone to seed, produced billowy clouds of color. My heart is overflowing as I write to thank you for helping me once again to see the beauty that is always present. Today, I felt the magic of discovering something beautiful. Something stirred in me that has long been dormant, and with all my heart I want to say thanks. The fire of my love of beauty and nature has been rekindled, and my heart is full. May God inspire and always bless you in publishing this wonderful Magazine. 512 So s anaged restaurant AY homes to aSSist wij ©Mergeng Ss. re | o P 4; f ve —yt. F # i A 6 ¢ ~ SF « Me * 4 md —_— Ss STS > SL? Tf £7 id A f SADIE BS CY C gGFA//I ACE Elsie C. Carroll @ 'Men are that they might have joy" does not mean that we exist solely to enjoy happiness. Joy does not come to us ready-made as a lasting gift through life. Nobody is ever happy twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. We must learn to snatch happiness in little bits. We must learn to recognize it, or the elements or conditions out of which it can be created, and then to form the habit of snatching it or its possibilities, and treasuring it while it lasts. One husband paid his wife the following beautiful tribute. "Mary has brought the ability to snatch bits of happiness from life as it passes by, to a fine art. Even trying days do not baffle her. Yesterday she started to do the weekly washing. Something went wrong with the washing machine. She could not get a repair man until the middle of the afternoon. But did she burst into tears or lose her temper? Instead, she stirred up a batch of muffins and called a newly made friend with a large family who lives down the street and told her she was coming to help with a basket of mending she had seen when she and her Relief Society visiting teacher companion had called a few days before. When I came home last night, she did not moan to me about the broken machine or the disruption of the household schedule she likes to keep. She gave me an interesting account of the visit she had had with this overworked neighbor and of plans they had made for future working together." It is worth time and thought to discover sources of happiness within our reach and the possibilities we have of availing ourselves of them. We may not be able to travel to different parts of the world, nor to attend fine operas and stimulating lectures, nor wear costly clothes, nor live in elegant homes; but we can thrill over the constant, ever-changing grandeurs in nature; we can read good books; we can make family relationships joyous and precious, and be gladdened by the opportunities and blessings of friendships. And, above all. We can find enduring joy in keeping close to our Father in heaven. 514 Vhe Mecihthoe P22 Betty G. Spencer it as something of little value, but to our family, gathered to prepare the house for new occupants, it represented a cherished characteristic of a friendly, vivaGrandmother, an excellent cook, was locally famous for her flaky pie crusts, mouth-watering fruiteakes, and feathery light hot rolls. Frequently, the plate was returned heaped with apples, berries, pieces of newly baked cake, or other special treats from a grateful heart. Gratitude deGrandmother is gone, now, but the Philosophical values she implanted in our hearts are with us still. Her daughters have remained in the same friendly mountain valley where they grew to womanhood, but the grandchildren have settled across the country from Florid i i Our Grandmother's philosophy of giving is as appropriate today as it was fifty years ago. What we give is not really too important. It may be lemon meringue pie in Florida, or Hungarian goulash in California. Whatever else we may add, love and friendliness are the most important ingredients that are ever offered on a Neighbor Plate! 515 Gleanings From the Summer Nancy M. Armstrong WHO FINDS ENCHANTMENT? Life displays its enchantment only for those who keep a light in their eyes and hope in their hearts. Life's magic is only for those who face the winds—even the furies—with courage. SELF-PORTRAIT We each paint the canvas of our own life. How we paint, will affect, for good or ill, the lives of those who view the picture. Are we painting with bold, true, clean-cut brush strokes? Or does our picture lack conviction? Are our colors warm, vibrant, harmonious? Or are they cold, inert, confused? Have we placed the major, lasting values in relief and made the minor, trivial ones mere shadows? Or is our picture out of balance? No life-portrait is perfect. Let's retouch the canvas now, before it dries, to bring it nearer our desired goal of perfection. TIME BRINGS AWARENESS Because it takes time to gain awareness of the manifold blessings of life, and to realize that the poverty and riches of life are within us, age augments life's values far beyond compensation for lost youth. SO MUCH FOR SO LITTLE Noticing there was unused seed in the cup when I cleaned my parakeet's cage, I began throwing it in the back yard for the birds. When snow arrived, I put a board I could easily sweep off near the door and added extra seed and bread to the diet. When I go out each morning, no birds are in our tree, nor can I see any nearby, yet the door will scarcely be closed before a colorful variety arrives to reward me. No longer is dishwashing a prosaic task. Through the window while I work, I watch birds happily pecking, hopping, flying; hear their gay chattering; sense their gratitude for my small thoughtfulness. Often our smallest kindness is manifoldly rewarded. If, in no other way, we are rewarded by a feeling of well-being. Longfellow expressed the idea beautifully in Evangeline. "That which the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain." 516 @ On my last pilgrimage downtown I met an old office friend. We stopped at a busy intersection to chat. The city streets were harassed with the snarl of the early morning traffic. People were rushing to work. Jubilantly I said, "Jake, we're moving away. I am on my last errand downtown. We're going to become ranchers." "Ranchers!" he exclaimed. "I can't think of anything more miserable. Are you sure you know what you're doing?" "Quite sure." I grinned. As we talked, a little breeze scuttled between the canyon walls of the buildings stirring up cigarette wrappers and gum papers in the gutter. "T couldn't stand to live in the country. It would drive me crazy,' he said. "Are you sure you want to leave all this? Just listen!" I listened. All of the sights and sounds around me were the gears and cogs of the big machine that was the city. The day was well in motion. "IT love it," he continued. "TI wouldn't leave this, nor my office for all of your open country." And I don't believe he would. He sort of looked like a piece of office equipment; a little too pale and already becoming hollow chested from leaning over a desk too many years. Sadly he shook his head. "I feel sorry for you. You're making a wild choice, but I wish you luck." He gave me a goodbye handshake and I watched him sprint across the street before the light changed. He would take the elevator up to the fifth floor of an old smoky building, put his key in the door and let himself into his stuffy, paper cluttered little office. From his window he would look down on the top of department stores and _ service stations. In the distance he would be able to see black clouds rolling forth from a pair of smokestacks. Back at the house I closed the 517 JULY 1965 drapes for the last time on the one picture window. It had been a chummy window. Always I could look out of it right into the picture window of the house next door. Our house had been cozy, but now the rooms were bare. We made our final inspection then locked the door. After we pulled the trailer out of the drive, we looked back at the yards. The grass and the concrete were continuous with the grass and concrete of the man's next door. We drove past the houses on our avenue. Each one was its own little foreign country where strangers dwelt. | SHALL never forget the day we pulled up to the ranch house. It was early evening. The sun was settling into the grove of trees behind the barn, sending red shafts of light through the pillars that were the lodgepole pines. I stood transfixed on the wide back porch. The yard was a riot of flowers—pink peonies, painted daisies, blue delphiniums, and a carpet of purple and yellow violas that ran helter-skelter into the tall grass. From the pole fence at the edge of the garden the meadow sloped down to a meandering creek. The creek was flanked with willows and_ serviceberry bushes. Beyond lay the wheat fields and alfalfa bordered with quaking aspens and ponderosa pines. Dew was already gathering on the grass and the air was crisp and cool. It was hard to believe that this was home, really and truly home. It seemed more like an exotic vacation spot where one would be privileged to spend only a night or two. A swing in the yard invited 518 me. As it fanned me high above the corral fence I could see a neighbor's house half obscured by trees. In a sweep the view encompassed timber land and mountains in the distance against the sky. Swings are great. They aren't just for the young, but mighty fine for anyone's anatomy. We found strawberries ripening in the garden. Daily, we heaped them high in a large glass bowl on our table. No dividing them in individual dishes from little baskets from the store. They stayed in season until the raspberries began begging to be picked. Our neighbors told us that the growing season was short. The seeds we planted seemed to know it. They grew rapidly. Gathering crisp vegetables from the garden is pure pleasure compared to collecting them in a grocery cart at a super-market. And they have a flavor that I supposed had vanished with my childhood. The familiar things I find at the ranch are electricity and butane and the appliances they operate. This permits us to cling to a way of life that we have come to expect. The things that are new, and a never-ending delight are mostly the native gifts of this country. I get a nostalgic feeling for the frontier days in the rustic, pinelined lean-to. On cool days I fill the woodbox from the grove and make a fire in the stove just for the sound of it, the smell of it, and the feel of it. In this room I can enjoy the patter of the rain on the roof. The rest of the house is as modern as today. There is a well in the flower garden. The water is cold and sparkling and good. So different from the treated water we were used to in the city. An electric pump delivers it into the house. Outdoors beckons every day. I walk through the meadow helping my husband move the cows from one pasture to another, or I go into the grove for an armful of wood, or down to the garden to water or hoe. I thrill to the feel of the wind, the rain, and the sun. My wanderlust feet take me along the creek and I see the water dimple where a small fish snatches a bug from the surface. I stop to eat a handful of serviceberries, remembering from reading history that these berries supplied nourishment for the Indians and early pioneers. Wild fruits and flowers flourish along the fence line, the creek, and through the meadow. As I walk I find little bluebells, thistles with purple pom-poms, wild geraniums, larkspurs, poppies, and daisies. Mushrooms grow from a vivid red color to a startling white. It is here that I saw my first fairy ring. It was just a few days after a rain. From the house I could see the luminous white circle down where the meadow dips the lowest. It was early evening. The sun had just set. I climbed over the corral fence and fairly flew down the slope. There they were, phosphorescent mushrooms, DON'T FEEL SORRY FOR ME making a mystical fairy ring in the dark grass. One night when the air was warm and still, I looked out our window to see hungry red flames leaping up behind the trees the other side of our grain field. "It is all right," my husband said. "The neighbors are burning brush." We drove over to their ranch to watch the roaring blaze. Where else, but in the open country could a fire a quarter of a mile long be a spectacle of beauty instead of a tragedy? There isn't a great deal of wild life on the ranch. There were deer tracks across the summer fallow one morning. We see an occasional pheasant in the field, and ducks stop briefly in the little pools along the creek. Squirrels chatter in the trees and crows hold conventions in the grove and the meadow. Once in awhile we see a skunk scurrying for cover. Away from the city lights, we have re-discovered what a show the night sky has to offer. Once more we enjoy the brilliance of stars and moon and the lightning when there is a storm. Night skies in the city are pale above the street lights and flashing neon signs. The only lights we see here at night, aside from those in the heavens, are the distant mellow lights from our neighbors' homes that reach out across our meadow like a warm handclasp. Farm folks are friendly. Our neighbors run in with a little jar of chokecherry jelly or a picking of beans. They help us harvest our hay and grain, and doctor a calf when trouble comes. The ranch women in our neighborhood milk cows, run the hay baler, and drive tractor. They can 519 JULY 1965 talk Wheat varieties, acreage Prothe mail man delivers Our mail manicured, and keep themselves to enjoy When we y; Tm. They are active in Politics and civic affai Wish, and yet We are out Under a w;: € schoo] bus Picks their childr,! Own a lh For 8ardenfy| ave tended eve uction and Market keep their hair Styled, their Nails Ices, They each day, The glamor of the City js Ours Shirley Thulin CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Joan Morgan has left her Position at Elmdale Hospital because of an emotional involvement and grief @ When Joan finished her reports it was nearly ten. She let herself into her room with a weariness She hadn't felt for a long time. It's a good feeling, she thought, to be weary with the doing of important things, The light was: out and Joan was glad she didn't have to be alone. She had always disliked going into a darkened room at the end of a day, alone. She wanted to sit on the edge of Kathy's bed and talk the way she had with her mother when she was young, but she knew she couldn't, so she undressed without turning on a light. The brightness from the street lamp just outside her window was enough. Joan could tell Kathy was in her bed, but she wondered if she were asleep yet. "Kathy..." Joan called softly. "What?" Kathy sounded very sleepy. "T..." and Joan didn't know what to say. She had wanted to tell her to notify her mother that 521 JULY 1965 she wouldn't be coming home every week end. She wanted to tell her it was not good for the well-being of a hospital to break regulations... She wanted to talk about Tom, and to explain what she was trying to accomplish with him... But the night held a sweetness that she could not bring herself to disturb with unpleasant conversation. So she only said, "Goodnight, Kathy." "Joan... Do you think Dean Dr. Desmond will ever marry?" "That's hard to tell...."' Joan wasn't prepared for this line of questioning. "He makes me so mad." Kathy was sitting up, now, and Joan knew she had been lying there, thinking of the Doctor, and hoping, and planning, as only the young dare to hope and plan even when there seems to be no use. "T think he will marry," Joan said. ""He may take a good long time to pick and choose, but he will marry." "He says he won't... Cially a nurse." "He will, most likely," Joan told her. "Besides, he never goes anyplace to meet anyone else." "Do you think if I would go away someplace and then come back, he'd...?" "Kathy, you don't want to go - anywhere... Besides," Joan was teasing now... "he might marry someone else while you were gone." "Do you like him, Joan?" "Yes, he's very intriguing." "Do you like him a lot, I mean?" Joan was about to tell Kathy she didn't like him any more than espe- 522 anyone else, but she knew that wasn't the truth. She swallowed to make her voice behave, then said, "Oh, I could, I suppose...." "He likes you. He likes you a lot." Joan felt like being very brisk with Kathy. She felt her armor melting away and wanted to do something about it. What was there about this girl, that made her so mellow, in spite of her promises to herself to keep her reserve? "Kathy, I have come to this hospital to...." "To get away from something... IT can tell. The others think you are just naturally... That it's just your nature to... I mean... But I can tell you've been hurt...." "Please, Kathy, I don't want to talk about it... That is, there's really nothing to talk about. I just want, more than anything, to be a good administrator, and to take good care of my patients." "Joan, are you going to make me stop going home' on week ends?" "Kathy, I think...." "As long as the others don't care, why should it bother you?" "It's just a matter of principle, that's all...." "But Uncle Jay doesn't mind." "He..." "And I was thinking that maybe you could come home with me sometime. You'd love Mom and Dad. They are always after me to bring some of the nurses home. It would do you good." "Let's get to sleep. It's late." "But you will come, won't you? This Friday?" Joan was about to reject the invitation when a new approach to her Problem with Kathy came to her. If J] do go, she thought, I may 8et a chance to talk to Mrs. Kirk If] explain to her that Joan answered Kathy. She said she would 80 with her, and all the rea] reason. She wanted to be bart of a family, even if only for n Joan had always kept alert to the hospital] life. She had never let it become dull or ordinary Noiseless on the tiled hall floors all this brought a tinge of exciteMent to Joan. SWelled. Oh, Tom, Joan almost Said aloud, what can J Say? RING AROUND HER HEART trying to make him fee], do you know what?" "Tl just. Bet yoy do." Tom didn't Ove, and his Voice was flat. "T this fellow js Parad closed Shades. What nN the doctors tel] 523 JULY 1965 "And make you think? That's all I'm trying to do, Tom. Make you think of the things that are coming... The things you could be doing...." "T can't do anything. Not one single thing," he shouted, and the veins along his forearms stood out with the firm pressure of his clenched fists. "Yes, you can. You can learn to do a lot of things with your strong arms and hands. You can do so much for your mother and the kids... You could even be an example to those little brothers and sisters of yours." Tom was crying now, so Joan left. She walked out of his room, leaving the door open, and hoping that she had also opened the door to his thinking. She knew his tears were good therapy. Joan hurried to the chart room. She wanted to find Doctor Desmond to talk to him about Tom. She wanted to get to him first, in order to avoid another misunderstanding about the possible effect she was having on the boy. I think I can make him understand, she thought, if I can talk to him about it. ' The chart work was always so interesting to Joan, that she didn't notice at first when Doctor Desmond came into the room. She glanced up, and the look on his face told her that he had already been to see Tom. "Hello. You've just come from seeing Tom?" "Yes. I wish you could see what you're doing to that boy." "T wish I could make you see what I'm trying to do for him." "Miss Morgan... I know that the therapy you are attempting 524 has been known to work wonders in lots of cases, but with Tom it's different. He... He is of a different nature. Heis...." "T'm sorry to differ with you. The nature of the patient rarely has much to do with this wpe..." "The nature of the patient has everything to do with it." Doctor Desmond's voice had raised to a pitch which bordered on the angry side, and Joan was close to tears. They were both relieved when Miss Jackson opened the door. She walked to the cabinet without a word, and the silence in the room was like a recently closed tomb, full of recently stilled voices. Joan wrote on her chart, and Miss Jackson pushed papers into their places, and Doctor Desmond just stood there. It was Miss Jackson who broke the silence. "Doctor Desmond, are you through with your rounds?" "Almost." "How's Tom today?" "Same." Joan knew Miss Jackson had asked the leading question knowingly, and it annoyed her, but his answer pleased her. He hadn't taken the opening to humiliate her, which gave her a strange feeling of pleasure. "Are you going to lunch?" Miss Jackson asked, knowing the subject should be changed. "In awhile. I have things...." Miss Jackson left then, and she no sooner was gone than Doctor Desmond began almost where he had left off. 'Miss Morgan, Tom has to be handled gently. You see, he is a boy who takes some life very seriously. Therefore, he doesn't need to be sobered with startling statements. He already realizes the seriousness of his predicament, therefore you needn't point it out to him." "He needs to put up a fight...." "He has fought for all these weeks. He nearly lost his life, you know." "But, he has been fighting against himself.... Now he needs to get angry enough to want to get out of here and go home and "We had him almost ready to want to go home...." "To go home, how? To retire to his bed behind darkened doors and windows? He has to want to take his place again. We have to let him know he can." "But can he? A half-a-boy oh a farm... What good is that?" "It's better than no boy at all." "Anyone can tell you're a city girl." Joan got up now and stepped toward the door. "Doctor Desmond, I was reared on a farm. My father and my uncles and my neighbors were all farmers. I've seen one-legged farmers, and farmers with one arm and...." "But no boys with the use of only half his body." "Yes. One. He even learned to drive a tractor with the use of hand controls." She left the room with a strange feeling of triumph. She knew she had begun to make him understand, or at least not to object to her continuing to work with Tom. I have to succeed now, she thought. I just have to. Joan went to the elevator. There were some X-rays she RING AROUND HER HEART wanted to check. When the elevator doors opened, Kathy and David stepped out. "Hi,"' David greeted her. Kathy didn't say anything. "Hi," Joan returned his greetpo "Going up?" he asked. "Ves." "Mind if I ride along?" Joan grinned. "Not at all, David. You, too, Kathy?" "No. I'm due in the lab, see you." David waited until the doors slid shut and then, as he pushed the right button, he turned and smiled at Joan. "What's so amusing?' asked him. "Nothing amusing. It's just that... Well, Miss Morgan, you know how everyone's saying... I mean that... Well, some are saying about Tom." Joan looked at the boy. He was only out of high school, but as tall as a man, and right now his eyes sparkled. "Yes, I know what they're saying about Tom... About me." "Well, I don't agree with them." "You don't? How come?" "Because he does feel sorry for himself, and today right after you left I went to see him. He talked to me, Miss Morgan, and that's she JULY 1965 the first time he hasn't sent me away." "What did he talk about?" "He asked me what I was planning on doing in the future. I told him I was just working here so as to save enough money to go to school. He asked me what my major was going to be and when I was planning to start." "He did? Oh, David, that's wonderful." "Then I told him if he'd learn to handle a wheel chair by September, I'd take him with me to register." "What did he say?" "He just turned to the wall and said he didn't want to go to any old university... That it wouldn't do him any good to learn anything." "David, you just keep talking to him.... We'll have him up in no time." Joan finished the day with a light heart. She hadn't thought of talking to Tom about school. This is it, she told herself. This is really the way to reach him. She went to her room to change. There were some things she needed from the nearby shopping center. She was disappointed to find that Kathy wasn't in their room. Funny, she thought, how you always want to share good news. Joan paused for a moment on the top step of the building. The view of the city from the hospital was always inspiring to her. The little starlets of light had begun to twinkle from some of the houses, and they comforted her. There are people in those little houses, Joan told herself. People with families and with problems and with things happening. The 526 houses were nestled against a green tree backdrop and seemed to be like fortresses, protecting their own families, and yet the windows and doors seemed to smile a welcome to strangers. Joan already felt a part of this town, and there, high on the hill, looking down at the city, she felt that she wanted more than anything else to live in one of those little homes and be part of a family. The walk to the store was pleasant. The evening was cool and the employees in the shop were friendly. Like a different world, she thought. No more than a couple of blocks away, but they have never heard of Doctor Desmond or Doctor Niles or Tom. They didn't accuse her of anything with their eyes or have secret meanings in their words.... They were just nice people waiting on a customer. As Joan came near the nurse's dorm, she saw Kathy coming along the walk. "Kathy...." Kathy almost didn't stop, but then she did, and Joan could tell she was reluctant and wondered why. "Is something wrong?" "Oh, not anything really.... I mean, nothing new, anyway." "T wanted to talk about the plans for the week end.... How long a drive is it?" "Only a couple of hours. The bus leaves at five P. M. SO we'll leave right after our shift tomorrow." "Kathy, would you rather I didn't go with you? I mean, has something happened to change your mind?" Kathy smiled then, a very slow smile. '""No, I haven't changed my mind... Only, oh, Joan, if you S fal]?" All Materia] sub mitted fo * stake R elief Socie Ed: t In, Salt Lake Ci erning the submj Notes From t lssue of the Magazine. 4 D ity, Utah 84111. S he Field in the November Plete With A, - Signposts indicated the 528 Cet ers served the inner to the forty Suests Present," uch as Welfare, Visiting teaching, ete. I NOTES FROM THE FIELD Box Elder Stake (Utah) Intermountain Indian School Branch Relief Society Left to right: Alice B. James, advisor; Lahoma Mexican: Theresa Reed: Loretta Grey; Lorraine Paddock; Betty Lou Yazzie; Helena Begay; Maggie Chee; Anita Begay; Evelyn Hudson: Eleanore Jones; Sadie McKinley; Margaret Crank; Hattie Yazzie; Ilene Rock, Secretary-Treasurer; Essie Mariano, Second Counselor; Celia Blackgoat, First Counselor: Lillian Chavez, President. Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Relief Society, reports: "The Intermountain Indian School Branch in Brigham City, Utah, organized its first Relief Society January 17, 1965, under the direction of the Box Elder Stake Presidency, and by the Branch President Howard F. Marshall, Jr. With the help and approval of the General Board of Relief Society, and Stake Relief Society President Bernice H. Rasmussen, her Counselors Eva Jeppsen and Faye Hansen, and Secretary-Treasurer Lola Anderson, and the board of Box Elder Stake Relief Society, appropriate lessons have been selected and are being presented by the Indian students in a fine manner. "Alice James has been appointed Relief Society advisor to this group of Indian students, and she is very enthusiastic and sincere in helping in this new Relief Society organization. The first Relief Society project was to make bread for sacrament for the Sunday meetings of the Intermountain Branch. They are now planning to prepare and serve a banquet for the Aaronic Priesthood members of the branch. At present a group of Singing Sisters in this Relief Society have been practicing musical numbers to sing in the branch sacrament meetings. The Relief Society is becoming a great influence for good in the lives of these girls and is helping them to become more active Latterday Saints." 529 JULY 1965 "ss Sister Johansen, Present President, Teports: "4 Pageant 'Memories of North Sanpete Stake Relief Society,' Teviewing the history of the Stake, and comrepresented President Brigham Young leading the Pioneers to the Promised e. Originally, the stake comprised all of Sanpete County, and in 1900, it was i i S. "Stake board Members and ward Presidents were given Specia] recognition. The highlights of the program Were the View of a Picture of Genera] President of Relief Society Belle § Spafford, and to have Counselor Louise W. Madsen Present to represent the Genera] Board of Relief Society and to 8ive an inSPiring Message." Left to right: Carmen G. O'Donnal, Assistant Supervisor, Mission R Society; Angelina Perez de Sac, Second Counselor, native of Quezaltenango: Tence [, 4ansen of the Central American Mission, requested and received Special] Permission from the Minister of National Defense to hold the Scheduled S NOTES FROM THE FIELD 531 JULY 1965 CENTRAL BRITISH MISSION Worcester District International Bazaar, December 5, 1964 Second row, left to right: Eileen Dunyon, Supervisor, Central British Mission: and (slightly to the front) Edna Byrne, President, Worcester District Relief Society (wearing hairband). Sister Dunyon reports: "The Worcester District Bazaar had a rousing start in the afternoon, when the sisters broke forth in singing 'Joy to the World,' which startled everyone, and then there was silence as the opening ceremonies were performed. All branches were represented: Hereford, Kidderminster, Redditch, Stourbridge, and Worcester, making the bazaar a great success. The sisters were wearing international costumes, and this brought the countries of Holland, Japan, England, Scotland, and Wales nearer to mind. Each table was dressed according to the countries represented, with homebaked bread and crafts in view. The bazaar was bright with color, and the handicrafts were judged by a local dental surgeon, Mrs. Phillips-Broadhurst. Both Sister Dunyon and Mrs. Phillips-Broadhurst were presented with a souffle dish by the two youngest members of the district Relief Society." Kidderminster Branch Quilt Wins Prize at Worcester District Bazaar Left to right: Edna Allen; Doreen Thomas; Sally and Patricia Jones; Hazel Stevens; Ercell Fullmer, President, Kidderminster Branch Relief Society; Sylvia Layton and baby daughter; Gail Layton; Martha Bradley, (next to the quilt); Doreen Ellis and Caroline Ellis. Sister Dunyon, in commending the sisters of the Kidderminster Branch for their beautiful "'stitchery" on the quilt, reports on the making of the quilt and the prize it won at the Worcester District Bazaar: "I feel that this is quite an achievement since we introduced quilting just a year ago and the women at that time had not quilted before. This branch was a dependent group until last summer. Kidderminster Branch with their wonderful quilt, won the prize, which was a cotton-reel and needleholder." Orange County Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Last Stake Conference, March 14, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Kathern Marks, Education Counselor; Mary Grasteit, President; Lillie Garrett, Work Counselor; Fanny S. Kienitz, member, General Board of Relief Society; Wanda Willett, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, at the right: Jane Gudmundsen, organist, and Marybeth Done, chorister. Sister Grasteit reports: ""The Orange County Stake Singing Mothers made their final appearance when they sang for the afternoon session of stake conference, March 14, 1965. They were in top voice and sang beautifully a special arrangement of 'O My Father' and 'Come, Ye Blessed.' "This was an eventful day—one filled with both excitement and sadness, as our beloved Orange County Stake was divided, and the name was dropped entirely. We now have two new stakes—Anaheim Stake and Fullerton Stake. Lillie Garrett was sustained as president of Fullerton Stake Relief Society, and Glenna Woolf (not in the picture) was sustained as Relief Society president in Anaheim Stake." $32 - « « Py * 7+ -* eg ge Pig e- — Santa Ana Stake (California) Presents Relief Society Anniversary Program March 17, 18, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Carolyn Asplund, representing Bathsheba Smith; Patricia Christiansen, author of the script and director, representing Clarissa Williams; Roslyn Taylor, as Emma Hale Smith; Lisa Taylor, as a Smith child. Back row, standing, left to right: Alna Phillips, as Belle S. Spafford; Leda Law, narrator; Nancy Ashcroft, as Emmeline B. Wells; LaPreal Anderson, as Amy Brown Lyman; Karen Lane, as Zina D. H. Young; Julie Sage, as Eliza R. Snow; Mildred Krumperman, as Louise Y. Robison; J. Frank Coltrin, representing the Prophet Joseph Smith. Marjorie S. Patterson, President, Santa Ana Stake Relief Society, reports: "Performed as a 'theater-in-the-round,' over 250 women in the Costa Mesa, Newport Beach, Santa Ana, and Santa Ana Second Wards viewed two performances of the play 'God Is Ever Beside Me,' to commemorate the 123rd birthday of the founding of Relief Society. Originated by Costa Mesa and Newport Beach Wards, the program utilized the dramatic and musical talents of thirty-two people. A Singing Mothers chorus, directed by Mildred Gunkler, offered two musical selections: 'God Is Ever Beside Me' and 'A New Day Dawned.' Soloists were Christine Stolins (auto-harp); Marilyn Johnson (violinist); Marjory Chapman (organist); Arlene Root (pianist). "The furnishings and many of the costumes, authentic to the period they depicted, were supplied by Lucille Lundwall, Costa Mesa Ward Relief Society President; and by Sister Patterson. A brunch was served by the food committee, headed by Velva McCaughan. A note of enthusiasm and joy prevailed throughout the program, as all gave their best in time and talents." 534 Objective: To @PPreciate God functioning Of the INTRODUCTION After the P had Visited Ja ophet Jos ckson Cou indulge in feelings toward US, which 4re not According to the requirements the Lord Will have a place whence His Word will 80 forth, in these last days, in Purity; fo; if Zion will not Purify t you, se Purif: yourselves and also all the Inhabita ts on, lest 535 JULY 1965 eceive ause they have In their Scope and not accept, d him, but the discjSublimity of hought. Ples may have the Influence of In the opening verses of the the Holy Os through their Tevelation, S€veral ideas are given obedience. Further on, the Lord Which sho Id be no to all Points oyt that the Comforter re e Lord s ys that angels rejoice ferred to Is the ly Ghost. This Over the brethren for their Prayers Pirit wil] teach the Convert and ve com Up to the Lord of SaTing all thj Sn essary to his aoth are Tecorded in the remembrance (John 14:16.17 00k of the Sanctified in the ce. 2 estial world (D&C 8 '1-2.) Con. During the di Course on e Tary to s me Ideas, the Word Comforter as th Holy Ghost "Sabaoth" does ot mean Sa €SUS spoke f a Cond Com. Bath, but sts; consequently, the orter that would ide with th Ord is the Master of ny. Pres Isciples: Ident Jo, ph Fieldin mith re Minded those a tendj - é ties my it is tment, and kee eth the » he it ig that Ovet mn tch that EO me: on he that loveth me Shall a ave one's on the memberloved of my her, and will loy ship Tecords does not save one in him, and Will mani. T myself to € eternal World. O names him —— must be found jn the Tecords Jes Maintain man love me, eep my i ds: and Father wil] | hin, tT Naving kept the compa " A a my Father wul love him Mandments ( onference Report €ptember 195 unto him, and make? Our abode With him. (John 14: 2], 23). » Page 10.) The 800d deeds that w, do here in In commenting upon this subPlacing the ingdom of God first Ject Joseph Smith Said that after Will redo d to ur everlasting 4 person has become 4 member of enefit the Church and has Teceived the first Comforter or the Holy Ghost, THE COME ORTERS if he w; Continue to humble him. Hen Jes was j ortality Self in liy; €ry word of God e taught his ISCiples that there and after the trig] Were ty, Com Orters ohn 14 s ist wi €Nn visit 16-26, ) ns lM and make his bode th him Only one Comf, er, but Tom time Tophet Since the €xpression "another 1 at this ph] Ng was Comfortey' lS used in verse 3, it received - the ancient Saints IS Well for us to Tecall the diswhen they had the heavens Opened CUssion 9 the aVior with Santo them in Vision nd had comcient ISCiples. John, 14th munication with God (DHC ITT Chapter, he tells his hearers that 380-381. ) M4 keeping the ¢ Mandmentg In Section » the Oomforter hey Show their love of the Father known as th oly Ghost is Spoand that Y will be blesseq In ken of as "the Holy Spirit of promaving th C. Mforte © be with Ise" ( Verse 3). Int 536 we learn that this Comforter "is the promise... Of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom" (Verse 4). Eternal life as used here is the same as the attainment of godhood, or exaltation, in the celestial kingdom, or to become a member of the Church of the Firstborn after the resurrection. (Ibid., verse 5; 76: 54-60.) THE LIGHT OF CHRIST The members of the Church were promised the wonderful blessing of enjoying the gift of the Holy Ghost to give them guidance to eternal life. (D&C 88:3-5.) Having addressed this comforting message to those who had made covenant with him in baptism, the Lord instructs us concerning his power and the means by which God's children throughout the world receive his blessings. We are informed that there is a light which proceeds 'forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space" (Ibid., verse 12). This Spirit, influence, and force is felt by all men, and it is throughout all parts of man's environment. Although the scripture states that it comes from the presence of God, this Spirit is the light of Christ. Jesus, in the pre-earth life, was creator of this earth, and he is man's Atoner. For these and other reasons, one may say that although this "light" emanates from God, it comes also from those who have attained all power in the exaltation. Four distinct functions performed by the light of Christ are mentioned. These are: (1) creative power; (2) life-giving force; (3) governing or sustaining force; and (4) enlightening or inspiring power. LESSON DEPARTMENT CREATIVE AND LIFE-SUSTAINING POWERS In the following verses we learn that the "light of Christ" is the power by which the sun, moon, stars, and "even the earth upon which you stand" were created. ([bid., verses 6-10). And the light which shineth, which giveth you light, is through him who enlighteneth your eyes which is the same light that quickeneth your understandings; Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space— The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed... (Ibid.. Verses 11-13). Here is stated the power of God manifest in all creation—in all things. Men have looked into the heavens and have marvelled at the greatness of the universe and the orderliness of these creations. Many thoughtful men have recognized in God's creations the evidence to support the belief that there exists a power greater than themselves. After Korihor, the anti-Christ, had asked Alma for a sign to support his belief in God, the prophet reminded him that he had seen many evidences of God's existence. In addition to the testimony of the prophets, Alma said:... The scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things denote there is a God; yea, even the earth, and all things that are upon the face of it, yea, and its motion, yea, and also all the planets which move in their regular form do witness that there is a Supreme Creator (Alma 30:44). When one considers the marvels of nature, there is found convincing testimony to support belief in God. 537 he li t Ziveth You light, is through him Who enlightenet}, your eyes, which is the Same light that quickenet}, your understand_ earth? They are all spirit Sons and daughters of God. « Or We are also his offspring" (Acts ] 7:28) Ts the Father Concerneg about the we]. Fare of his children? The €arth and 538 And Now, es: The Book of Mormon Tmon expressed this my breth ye know the ]j by which Tren, Seeing that ye May e light of igently and he shall be found and his treasures will be opened unto you. REVELATION— THE BOOK OF MORMON In discoursing on his desires to preach the gospel to all people, Alma taught the doctrine that men of all nations may receive God's light. For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, of their own nation and tongue, to teach his word, yea, in wisdom, all that he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just and true (Alma 29:8). One way in which the Lord has given his "word" to all people is through the inspiration received by the "light of Christ." We can see in this principle the important fact, again, that the Father gives to all of his children sufficient to guide and direct them regardless of race or place on the earth. To each is given according to his needs as he can assimilate truth for his advancement in the earth life. The final judgment will be made on the great principle of the light and knowledge possessed by the individual. (D&C 76:110- 111.) In reference to this principle, Joseph Smith taught:... He holds the reins of judgment in His hands; He is a wise Lawgiver, and will judge all men, not according to the narrow, contracted notions of men, but, "according to the deeds done in the body whether they be good or evil," or whether these deeds were done in England, America, Spain, Turkey, or India. He will judge them, "not according to what they have not, but according to what they have," those who have lived without law, will be judged without law, and those who LESSON DEPARTMENT have law, will be judged by that law. We need not doubt the wisdom and intelligence of the Great Jehovah:; He will award judgment: or mercy to all nations according to their several deserts, their means of obtaining intelligence, the laws by which they are governed, the facilities afforded them of obtaining correct information, and His inscrutable designs in relation to the human family, and when the designs of God shall be made manifest, and the curtain of futurity be withdrawn, we shall all of us eventually have to confess that the Judge of all the earth has done right (DHC IV: 595-596). GOD KNOWS AND RULES One may think of the "light of Christ" as a great communication system. An important lesson to be learned by all men, and especially Latter-day Saints who believe that God does know the thoughts of men and that he rules among the nations, is this expression from Elder B. H. Roberts:... He knows, not only "what's done," but also "what's resisted;" that He knows of the struggle for the attainment of virtue—the hungering and the thirsting after righteousness; that He knows the strength of the temptation, and the weakness of the tempted; that He knows the heart... And He will judge, not after the sight of the eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of the ears, but with righteousness shall He judge, and reprove with equity [Isa. 11:3, 4] judging, "not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment." [John 7:24.] Men can be assured of a correct registration and truthful report of their deeds, and a judgment upon them neither partial nor prejudiced; which, while it may cause the wicked to tremble, to men conscious of the uprightness of their intentions, and of honest effort in right directions, as God gives them vision to see the right—what encouragement to earnest striving this conception of living in the very presence of God must bring! (The Seventy's Course in Theology, Fifth Year, 1912, page 13). 539 JULY 1965 GOD'sS OMNIPRESENCE In the great discourse on Mars' Hill in Athens, Paul spoke to the principle that all men live, and move, and have their being in God. (Acts 17:28.) The erroneous concept that God is and therefore he is a spirit only is held in the apostate Christian world. The teaching of God's omnipresence js true, but that he is not personal igs declared false by the Lord in the revelations received in our dispensation, Men have mistaken a manifestation of God, the "light of Christ," as be- ] himself. God is everywhere present by his Spirit, the "light of Christ," but God and the Christ are personal beings of flesh and bone and individually present in only one Place at a time. (D&C 130:22.) THE HOLY GHOST AND THE LIGHT OF CHRIST There is a difference between the "light of Christ" and the Holy host. Sometimes in scripture the or the other are used interchangeably, but the distinction igs evident in each specific case by the use of the term in those who are obedient, (Acts 5: 32.) The latter is a special gift received by the laying on of hands, (Acts 8:14-17; D&C 33:15.) Also, there is a power from the Holy Ghost which is "temporary"; that is, if the person having been led to the truth of the S98pel by the "light of Christ" receives a testimony by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4-5), and then he does not accept baptism and 540 the laying on of hands by authority, the testimony is lost to him. The-case of Cornelius in the New Testament iS a case where the cepted. (Acts 10). The Prophet Joseph Smith in commenting upon this case said that if Cor. Nelius had not accepted the gospel the Holy Ghost would not have re. Mained with him. (DHC 4:555.) President J oseph F. Smith said the following about the difference between the "light of Christ" and the Holy Ghost: The question is often asked, Is there any difference between the Spirit of Ghost? The the possession of the QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION: 1. Why is Section 88 known as the "Olive Leaf"? Discuss, 2. Does membership in the Church Save one in the celestial kingdom? 3. What is meant by the "light of Christ''? 4. Discuss: The functioning of the "light of Christ" jin man's life is an The Holy Ghost and are different. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 65 — "And | Give Unto You a Commandment That You Shall Teach One Another the Doctrine of the Kingdom" (D&C 88:77). For First Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To emphasize the fact that we have a solemn responsibility to ® The divine instruction to teach one another lies at the foundation of The Church of Jesus Christ. When Jesus was upon the earth, he spent his life in teaching others. After they had been taught, he instructed his followers to go forth and teach one another. Yet, after the Savior's crucifixion, his disciples apparently forgot the instructions he had given them and some of them returned to their former occupation as fishermen. Following his resurrection, to reemphasize their teaching responsibilities, the Savior called his disciples around him and reinstructed them. In one of the dramatic events recorded in the scriptures, Jesus asked Peter if he loved him, and when Peter responded in the affirmative, Jesus told him three times to feed his lambs and sheep. (See John 21:15-17.) Then, before departing from his disciples, the Savior gave them his final in- | teach the gospel of Jesus Christ. Struction which was to go forth and teach all nations, "Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Matt. 28:20). Not only must we teach one another the 'doctrine of the kingdom". Through the Church organizations but, also, we have a sacred obligation to teach each other in the home. We must make sure that our children have an understanding of the _ gospel truths. On this subject the Lord has been very specific, telling us as parents that if we fail to teach our children in the home "the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25). Moreover, we must teach our children 541 JULY 1965 "to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). Among the basic concepts of the gospel are the divine truths, "The glory of God is intelligence" (D&C 93:36). And, "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D&C 131:6). The Church teaches us that not only are knowledge, intelligence, and religious training basic to happiness and success in this life, but, also, they are necessary to gaining the highest exaltation in the world to come. Without doubt the best way to gain knowledge and make it part of our lives is to study, learn and apply, and then teach this know]ledge to someone else. The apostle Paul said, "Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself?" (Rom. 2:21). President Brigham Young emphasized the same basic truth when he said: A man who wishes to receive light and knowledge, to increase in the faith of the Holy Gospel, and to grow in the knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus Christ, will find that when he imparts knowledge to others he will also grow and increase... Get knowledge and understanding by freely imparting it to others (Journal of Discourses 2: 267). The basic purpose of all religious teaching is to gain a better knowledge of God's commandments so that we can put these truths into practice in our lives and thereby gain the blessings that come from living the gospel. Knowledge in and of itself is valueless unless it leads to constructive and worthwhile action. One has not really taught a gospel truth unless the learner's life through action has been improved. Milton expressed this thought beautifully when he said, "The end of all learning is to know God, and out of that knowledge to love and imitate him." Suggested cross references for mothers in the home to the Family Home Evening Manual: Lesson 11 - "Our Heavenly Father Made a Plan For Us," page 80; Lesson 24 ~- "Jesus Taught Us the Word of God," page 193; Lesson 42-"We Should Learn the Principles of Revelation," page 346. A Way of Peace Mabel Jones Gabbott Let peace be in my home, O Lord, | pray, In children's laughter, rippling clear and free, In polished wood and muted tapestry, In scent of lilac on an April day; Within my home let there be found a way Of loving, gladly shared; of empathy For one another's dreams; and let there be A gentleness in what we do and say. And then across our threshold, past these walls, Like fragrance from a hyacinth in spring, A vibrant tone of peace will radiate, And like the rain-fresh apple bloom that falls Scattering beauty, our way of life will bring A leavening of love beyond our gate. 542 WORK MEETING Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 9—Vocational Goals and Marriage (A Course to Be Studied at Work Meeting, January Through September 1965) Objective: For September 1965 To point out that a wise mother may guide youth toward satisfying vocations and a happy marriage. INTRODUCTION Few individuals perhaps achieve their full potential while in this life, but the cultivation of one's potential, as a human being, may be spoken of as an over-all life objective. This means that the significent goal for any child is the develipment of his inherent capacity, so that he may know satisfaction and fulfillment in this life and be prepared for a greater joy in the eternity to come. This cultivation-effort will embrace areas of education, of vocation, of voluntary service to others, of spiritual understanding, and of marriage. The mother may exert a substantial influence in each of these areas. This lesson will discuss two important factors in achieving one's potential—that of selecting a vocation and that of selecting a marriage companion. OF EDUCATION Education is basic to a full appreciation of life and may be an important factor in the selection of a satisfying vocation (employment). We well know, however, that education is not attained through academic training alone. We are aware of the importance of experience and of the influence of personal association outside the home and with family members within the home. We also know that if we are to appreciate the various aspects of life we need some knowledge of "history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man... (D&C 93:53). This knowledge will give us an appreciation for the fine arts, for world cultures, as well as some technical and scientific knowledge which are of such importance in today's challenging world. 543 JULY 1965 How may a mother help her children appreciate the privilege of going to school and the blessings of an academic education? VOCATIONAL GOALS Vocational counselors impress upon us the need to consider individual talents and interests realistically, as we choose vocational goals. If one is to spend perhaps years at a specific type of employment, that employment should be one which will give some personal satisfaction and fulfillment. It should be one for which a person is adapted. (See lesson 6, under headings "Each Individual is Precious" and "Discovering the Inherent Ability.'') How may a mother cooperate with teachers in discovering the special interests and aptitudes of her children? (Suggestion: Consult with teachers about the matter. Be aware of classroom projects which involve individual initiative and encourage children in line with these projects. ) Frequently, hobbies enjoyed in childhood reveal inherent abilities which later, may develop into lifetime vocations. Fathers and mothers may give special guidance to sons and daughters by helping them see the training which various employments involve, and, to some extent, what the rewards may be. What are some of the specific goals of employment which a mother may help her children to see and desire? (Suggestion: the satisfaction of being useful to society; the joy of accomplishment; the satisfaction of financial remuneration. ) 544 WORDS OF CAUTION Sometimes a mother may speak disparagingly of certain occupations which are not in line with the "family tradition." How may this influence children? Sometimes mothers express such high regard for the professions that children may feel that they are "letting the family down' unless they become doctors, lawyers, professors, business executives, etc. They may feel that unless they become outstanding in a professional way they will not fulfill their mother's expectations. What may this do to a son whose potential lies in the area of manual skills? How may a mother help her children to see that we need various professions and varied skills; that if all sons were surgeons or lawyers, there would be no one to build houses, to install the plumbing, to manufacture cars for transportation. How may a mother help her daughters to feel that the roles of wife and of mother are of prime importance? That the goals to be achieved are challenging and also rewarding? Will a mother's positive statements made occasionally be sufficient, or will an everyday attitude be more effective? CHOOSING A MARRIAGE "Choosing a marriage" may imply two areas of choice. First, that there is a choice of the marriage partner and, second, that there is choice as to the type of married life that will result. In many cultures of the past, and even in some of the present day, the individuals most concerned play little or no part in the matter of choosing the marriage partner. This discussion applies to those situations only, in which the candidates for marriage are personally involved in the matter of choosing the marriage partner (companion). "How do I choose a mate?" Should your son or daughter ask you this question, how would you reply? A counselor for youth, Dr. Lowell Bennion, gives this answer: "Choose in the light of the life you wish to achieve." With this answer in mind, we may say that the answers to both of the following questions are dependent upon the kind of life one wishes to achieve. "What may I expect from marriage?" and ''How do I choose a mate?'"' Do you believe that most young people today have clearly defined marriage goals? If so, how do you think they would be listed, in order of importance? Why do you think about this as you do? THE PREPARED PARTNER We may hear this statement, "A person gets out of marriage just what he puts into it." Achieving happiness' through matriage, really is not this simple. A marriage involves more than one person. Although one marriage partner may be well prepared to contribute personal qualities which make for a "good" marriage, if the other partner is immature and ill prepared to contribute similar qualities, this marriage may have a poor chance of achieving happiness. A mother shares with the faLESSON DEPARTMENT ther the responsibility to help their children prepare for marriage; to have worthwhile, clearly defined goals in mind, and to choose the marriage partner as wisely as possible. Mothers should help their children see that "Just because two people think they are in love does not mean that they are insured a happy marriage forevermore. In addition to a strong feeling of love, they also need knowledge, understanding, and wisdom to have a successful marriage in the modern age" (Rex A. Skidmore). HOW AND WHEN How and when shall parents guide children toward wise marriage choices? We are reminded that influencing youth toward happy married life is a gradual, lifelong process; that advice on marriage should be given so wisely and gradually that children will desire, formulate, and move toward worthwhile marriage goals, naturally, while at the same time not being denied their free agency. It is suggested that guidance be given subtly; that a sense of humor may be an invaluable ally in "putting over" ideas. A mother who is earnest, yet obviously in good humor, may have a better chance of impressing her child with constructive counsel, than if she is obviously agitated and apprehensive. Sometimes, the unexpected comment may be more effective than the usual, expected statement. Illustration. A father who was somewhat concerned about his son staying out too late, said: 545 JULY 1965 Father- "Yes, Son, you may take the Car, but don't be in before eleven 0'clock." Son: ( Wh definitely Surprised) "Why n t?" Father "T think Tl Study in your room I Wouldn't w © be dis 0'clock Was an 4ppropriate time for this Son to be in? Asking Questions quietly and naturally, and listening attentively as Sons and daughters air their Problems and inner quesOF PRIME IMPORTANCE Of prime importance in the Matter of Marriage Counseling of based on the eternity of the marYlage Covenant, encompasses far More than mere €motional and ily groy th P sheets, Here they enjoy € love of Parents a l nds upon what PerSs are important to Should your (almost Marriage able) son k, "Ho choose a m expect qAestions gh able dial betwe 4nd son. [Tt ight What in this anner Mother "T shall answer your ques tions, son, b I of you. What would 8et from Marriage?" Son: « 4pPiness, which ent mom right girl." Mother: « happy and 4 right gir] depe SOnality qualitie. You." Son: "Well, I guess character would be first, ] think that's about the lo. ' S ow you are will depen of other: emotional in herse] Ope want her to be f, like Some achieved. Each one must be willing to share and to compromise." Son: "Of course I'd like her to be good looking, neat, and all that." Mother: "Good." Son: "But she does need to be interesting—have an inquiring mind, so we could communicate, talk things over, get the same point of view on things." Mother: "At least on most issues. How about her religious beliefs?" Son: "I think I could settle for a difference of opinion here and there, but I think I wouldn't be completely happy, being reared in this home, unless we had the same basic religious faith." Mother: (ignoring the last statement) "Which of course for you means...." Son: "A temple marriage. You knew Id say that. But really, Mother, I'd want a temple marriage, and I'd want children, too." Mother: "So much for choosing the girl. Now, what general satisfactions would you expect to get from marriage?": Son: (Thinking a moment) "Happy home life, which would include the Church, a satisfying job, some status in the community—I guess that's it." Mother: "T'll give you an A on that question. Wife and children — the Church—a vocation—the community." Son: "The job is mighty important." Mother: "Of course it is, very important—vitally important. But em. Ployments may change—the family is forever." Should this mother feel reasonably secure in her son's ability to choose a marriage partner wisely? What might a mother do to help a teenage son who is contemplating marriage see that he is not ready to assume the financial responsibility of marriage (where she feels sure that he is not)? Would telling him that many teenage marriages do not last because the partners are not mature LESSON DEPARTMENT enough to handle the responsibilities of a family, be very effective at this stage of his romance? What might a mother reply to a son or daughter who says: "It's my life—my concern whom I marry." (Suggestion: Whom the children marry is the concern of their parents, for as future grandparents they are definitely concerned as to who shall parent their grandchildren. ) Reconstruct the above dialogue using a daughter instead of a son. What values will be important to her? Such a conversation, in its entirety, might never take place in your home; however, portions of a similar one might. Would it provide an opportunity for you to appraise the influence of gospel teaching in your home? Would you find in it opportunity to reemphasize certain important values, or give additional counsel? What would this be? NEEDED TODAY Perhaps there was never a time when youth was more in need of wise counseling and of a firm foundation of right and essential values than at the present time. A permissive morality (or lack of morality) is exerting great pressures upon today's youth. They need the assistance of wise parents to help them meet these pressures. They need the fortification of stable homes, they need good parent-son and_ parentdaughter relationships so that each may speak freely and honestly about the problems of courtship and marriage, of chastity versus the so-called "new moral- 547 JULY 1965 ity." They need mothers who will put teaching the gospel principle of righteous living above all other responsibilities. Our religious leaders and many juvenile court judges speak of the deep psychic wounds which are the result of immorality and they say that indifferent, permissive parents are partly responsible for this trend away from the ethical and moral standard of religion. Latter-day Saints are blessed in that they accept the standard of morality as revealed in the Old Testament, the New Testament, Book of Mormon, and modern revelation. They are blessed in their belief that "marriage is ordained of God unto man." Believing that temple marriage is required of all who would attain the highest degree of glory in the celestial kingdom of God, Latter-day Saint mothers have the obligation to help their children see the need of preparing themselves for such a marriage. FOR DISCUSSION Questions as they appear in the lesson, plus the following: 1. How may a mother help youth to understand what love is and is not? 9. Might a son or daughter reared in a Latter-day Saint home be expected to have this general understanding of marriage? A. That marriage is a sacred covenant, ordained of God and that it was instituted for the primary purpose of creating the family unit; that the wise care and guidance of children is its most important function. B. That temple marriage not only makes for more stability of the marriage in this life, but makes possible the continuing of the, union in the life to come. C. That enjoyable companionship is one of the most important goals; that it is achieved only when husband and wife share the joys, sorrows, and responsibilities of family life. D. That both partners have the obligation to be honorable, lawabiding citizens, and they should teach their children to see that they also share in this citizenship responsibility. E. Are there other items you would like to add to this? FOR HOME DOING Make conscious effort to discover some interest or special ability of your young children. (Older children in the home) Discuss, at opportune time, worthwhile life goals. If children do not seem inclined to express their feelings freely, endeavor earnestly to improve your line of communication with them. (No children in the home) If grandchildren live near, make opportunity to become better acquainted with them. If all children are married, write an occasional letter to the marriage partners of your children, expressing appreciation for them. Love Is... Eva Willes Wangsgaard Love is not moth nor butterfly, But more like a sequoia cone To root in earth and reach for sky, Unlimited within its zone: 548 A seed to swell and sprout and grow, To sink its rootlets deep in earth, Each year to lift more sky and know Extended roots, expanded girth. WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine Using One's Resources to Find Happiness (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) For Second Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To appraise ways a homemaker can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of @ Happiness grows at our firesides, and is not to be picked in stranger's gardens," wrote Douglas Jerrold. No matter how large or small our home, nor how great or little our circumstances, the happiness of our family must, be found in what we have and what we are. We may see our neighbor driving a beautiful new car, or we may visit in the elegant home of a friend, and unless we have learned this lesson well — that happiness for us must be found within our own circumstances — a stab of jealousy may prick our souls and let happiness slowly leak away. In a college town some years ago was a group of graduate students, many of them married and with small families. All of them were living under the: most stringent of circumstances, doing janitorial work for their housing, teaching part time for small salaries, making over clothing for family wear, using every spare minute for studying, and spending an occasional day or evening doing the simplest things for recher family and herself. Reation and entertainment. These men have since become professors, research chemists, vice-presidents and directors of companies, and yet all speak lovingly of those days when material things were so scarce. All agree that they were among the happiest days of their lives. Probably, these happy times were possible because of ingenious minds and creative hands. No matter what our economic conditions, happiness still grows from these resourceful activities —building a fire pit in the backyard, upholstering a chair, painting the garage, framing pictures, building cupboards, dyeing rugs, refinishing furniture, hanging wallpaper, adding a greenhouse, growing roses from slips and flowers from seed and storing geraniums through the winter. Even in well-to-do homes such practices bring added happiness. Limited means do not necessarily mean limited enjoyment of cultural and beautiful things. Libraries not only provide the wealth of books, but many of 549 JULY 1965 them now make available fine recordings and lovely art prints to check out and enjoy at home. Television and radio offer programs of symphony and opera, ballet and drama. Large cities are forging ahead in organizing their own choirs and symphonic groups, little theaters and art societies, and welcome volunteer workers. Free summer concerts are frequently available to those who will avail themselves of the opportunity to hear them. Study groups of good literature are in action everywhere. Night classes in a myriad of subjects are offered by high schools and colleges. Opportunities and advantages for our children and ourselves can be worked out on an exchange-of-talents basis. You give my son piano lessons, and I will give your daughter cooking lessons; art in exchange for sewing lessons, speech in exchange for dancing lessons or baby sitting. Visits to museums and galleries, zoos and parks, or visits to people with interesting hobbies bring much pleasure and stimulation. A family's ingenuity can override any limitation of resources if it has the will and the desire. And what happy times result! One of the great delights any family can enjoy is the pleasure of having guests in the home. Families might be invited in to join family night activities. Outof-town visitors staying in the home can enrich family life considerably. Non-Latter-day Saint neighbors might be in a Latterday Saint home for the first time 550 when invited to your home. Children learn to be gracious hosts and to enjoy and participate in stimulating conversation. Home conditions and meals need not be elaborate before having people in. If the family plans and serves those things within its means, using ingenuity and doing so graciously and generously, guests will feel the warmth of hospitality and rejoice in being present. One family has made a tradition of serving soup suppers, using an heirloom soup tureen and plates. The soup may be any kind the season most reasonably affords—cream of celery, potato, leek, or split pea. Served along with it are a green salad, hot rolls, and dessert. Although the meal is inexpensive, the occasions are always happy. In his autobiography Dr. John A. Widtsoe, a former member of the Council of the Twelve, writes: My financial debt, from the years of advanced study, was large; the salary small. Since neither my wife nor I would go in further debt, we used makeshifts as part of our furniture. I still remember with distinct relish the manner in which my wife, with superb, queenly indifference to the clean but primitive conditions, fed and entertained the many guests, often of great distinction. Whether. They were Americans, Europeans, or Asiatics, the lady of my house treated them with a welcoming courtesy. We dealt with things of the mind. Through Relief Society, the sisters are taught to be resourceful, to be frugal, to be creative, to be happy with what they have. Happiness floods homes where these things receive first consideration. JULY 1965 own backgrounds. Approaching literature in this manner, not afraid of it but eager to explore it, will help us discover in it not only beauty and delight but also wisdom and truth. The lesson for this month covers four selections—two very short poems, a fairly long poem, and a short story. All are concerned with the complex relationships between good and evil in human experience, and, especially, with man's efforts to overcome evil and promote good. As indicated in the introductory comments on page 283 of the text, probably literature has explored no other subject so much as the relationship between good and evil in the universe, with the related problem of sin and redemption from sin, and this is especially true of the great works of literature. Indeed, the most challenging questions that have faced thinking men through the ages in religion and philosophy, as well as in literature, have often had their roots in the nature of good and evil in relation to each other and in relation to God and man. As members of the Church, we are fortunate in having special insight into these problems through the inspired writings of our medern prophets; in addition we can profit from what wise men of literature have had to say. The Tiger. To plunge us dramatically into the whole subject of the problem of evil in the universe, we start with the little poem by William Blake (English poet, 1757-1827) called "The Tiger," which is printed, with fuller notes than given here, on page 285 552 of the text. And in connection with our reading of "The Tiger" we probably should review Blake's companion poem," "The Lamb," printed on page 91 of the text. The contrast between the two poems is vivid and strong. "The Lamb" is a tender, lovely poem, fragile in artistry and reverent in tone. "The Tiger" is fierce and grim, but the contrast goes far beyond just a difference in language and tone. The reader easily sees that the lamb is a symbol of all that is beautiful and good in the world, whereas the tiger is a symbol of all that is destructive and evil. The key line in "The Tiger," linking the two poems together and thrusting to the heart of the problem they explore, occurs in the fifth stanza: "Did He who made the Lamb make thee?" Blake is asking, did God, the Creator of al] that is good in the world, also ~ create evil? What is the source of evil in the universe? Blake does not answer the question—at least not in this poem. He simply asks it, leaving the reader to ponder. As Latter-day Saints we know that God does not cause evil. The Lord's plan for the salvation of his children, however, provides for the presence of evil in the world and the means of meeting and overcoming it. Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time. Exploring further into the complex problem is Thomas Wolfe's luxuriantly written short story 'Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time," printed, with a full discussion, on pp. 287-301 of the text. The story is complex in both the rich artistry of its prose style and the multiplicity of its meanings, as discussed in the text more fully than space allows here. But the subject that concerns us. Most in our study of the story is its dramatization of good versus evil in our human environment. Through the story Wolfe (American novelist and short-story writer, 1900- 1938) suggests that in every human being there are capacities for good and for evil. In fact, human nature is characterized by contrast, by paradox. In every earthly personality, and in mortal life as a whole, there are beautiful tendencies and ugly tendencies, tender qualities and harsh qualities, holy aspirations and animal desires. The difference between the good person and the bad person is not that one has only noble desires and the other only evil desires, but that the one, through will-power, cultivates his noble desires and subdues his evil desires, and the other through lack of will-power, wastes his noble potentialities and submits to his animal desires. Surrounding us at all times are opportunities to do good and opportunities to do evil. Triumph in life is a process of selecting the good opportunities and recognizing the evil ones— and this is a matter of inner decision. One has reached a high level of maturity if he can win the battle to control fhe evil tendencies within himself. Few writers have described more elequently the good-evil dualism of man's nature than has Thomas Wolfe in this work. Note, for example, several sentences, from just beyond the middle of the story (text, page 293), where he speaks of the tragic and insoluble problems caused by the admixture of opposite forces striving for ascendency. LESSON DEPARTMENT Wolfe continues with a vividly expressed description of the continual conflict between man's highest yearnings and the encroachment of his base desires. The "soaring spirit" is compared to "grand music," and the conflict of evil is "sorrowfully and unalterably woven with blind brute hunger." Much of the excellence of the story comes from the fact that this sense of contrast is felt in every aspect of the work—the beautiful love of the husband and wife contrasted with the wife's ugly clandestine affair with the young man, youth contrasted with age, health contrasted with sickness, the spirituality of the man contrasted with the fleshliness of the woman, ornate language contrasted with homely language, etc. Many other works have been written on the complex relationship between evil and good in the universe—and in the human heart—but few have explored the subject as memorably as Wolfe does in this story. Shakespeare's Sonnet #94. One of the strongest brief statements reminding us of our responsibility as leaders to live righteously and avoid evil is Shakespeare's Sonnet #94. SONNET #94 William Shakespeare They that have power to hurt and will do none, That do not do the thing they most do show, Who, moving others, are themselves as stone, Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow; They rightly do inherit heaven's graces, And husband nature's riches from expense; 553 JULY 1965 They are the lords and owners of their faces, Others but stewards of their excellence. The summer's flower is to the summer sweet, Though to itself it only live and die, But if that flower with base infection meet, The basest weed outbraves his dignity: For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds; Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds. First, Shakespeare describes that kind of man who, by force of personality and strength of convictions, stands high above ordinary people—a tower of strength influencing others but himself not swayed by the petty whims and fancies In his might he has power to hurt others but will not. He soars above the common weaknesses and is as stone to the temptations that destroy lesser men. Such a man rightly is to be looked on as having heavenly powers and displaying humanity's best qualities. Such a man is also rightly to be honored and followed. But what if this great leader falls? No one, not even the mightiest, is absolutely beyond temptation. Little people are capable of accomplishing a little good or committing a little evil. Strong people are capable of accomplishing a great good or committing a terrible evil. And the fall of a strong man is awful to behold. If a little person deceives or embezzles or is immoral, this is bad enough; but if a great leader deceives or embezzles or is immoral, calamity engulfs the whole community. For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds; Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds. This is the essence of tragedy— a basically good and great man crumbling to ruin, with his world crumbling around him, in consequence of some flaw in his own character to which he succumbs. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. Probably the greatest of the four selections covered in this lesson is "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner," by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (English poet and critic, 1772-1834). The poem is printed in full with lengthy comments not only on the poem itself but also on Coleridge's life and other works on pp. 304-328 of the text. "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is Coleridge's masterpiece, and one of the major poems of world literature. Like many great works, it can be read in different ways and admired by different levels of readers. It can be read as an exciting adventure story about an old sailor and his sort of hoodooed voyage from his home in Europe southward through the Pacific Ocean, and finally back to his home, with a variety of startling and suspense-filled incidents along the way. Or it can be read primarily as an aesthetic experience, with the reader responding to the rich and varied artistry of the work. Or it can be read as a vision of good and evil, the two forces locked in endless conflict, with special attention to the inescapable consequences of an immoral act. And these are only three ways of reading the poem. Considered as a work of art, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner'" is unquestionably one of the great and finished poems of the world. (For a discussion of its artistry the reader is referred to pp. 322-323 of the text.) Our primary concern in this lesson, however, is with meaning rather than aesthetics—that is, with the insight the poem gives into the relationship between good and evil in the universe: not a melodramatic presentation of evil as a thing so obvious as to be immediately recognized and shunned, but (in the words of Ernest Bernbaum): - - - a veiled yet dreadful power, half-repellent, half-fascinating, seizing upon us when least expected, and visiting consequences upon us that are unforeseen. It is a vision of Evil perfectly true to life. But a vision of Evil —not an analysis of it, nor a sermon upon it. To read and fully appreciate a poem such as this, to recognize fully its power and greatness and truth, we need to approach it as Coleridge recommended we should approach any high-quality work of imaginative literature, with that "willing suspension of disbelief which constitutes poetic faith," letting the poem speak for itself, and letting ourselves be caught up in its magic and wonder. Pages 324 to 328 of the text give detailed comments on the seven parts of the poem, telling how a ship sails on a long, mysterious voyage into unfamiliar waters, there to be beaten by storm-blasts and driven into a bitter-cold area where "ice, mast-high, came floating by, as green as emerald." Lost in this desolate region, the sailors take heart when an albatross, omen of a safe voyage, joins their ship. And sure enough, there follow nine joyous days of clear sailing in calm water. Then, abruptly, without apparent reason, the Mariner kills the albatross—comLESSON DEPARTMENT mitting sin wantonly, irresponsibly, thoughtlessly, with total lack of regard for the value of life. At first the other sailors accuse the Mariner of having "done a hellish thing" in killing the blessed albatross; but when a good wind continues for several days and all seems well they compliment him for destroying "the bird that brought the fog and mist." Thus, by approving of the crime, they become accomplices to the crime. They, too, are now guilty, and so they must pay the penalty for sin; but they are not as guilty as the Mariner, and so their penalty will not be as heavy. For a brief time the fair breeze continues, Then it stops, and day after day they sit ina hot, motionless sea, "as idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean." Salt water is all around, but there is none to drink, and "slimy things did crawl with' legs upon the slimy sea." Driven mad by the agonizing thirst, with parched throats, the sailors curse the Mariner for their misery. Finally there appears a small ship on the horizon. At first the Mariner hails it as a ship of mercy, but then is haunted by its skeleton-like appearance and its ghastly crew of two—Death and Life-in-Death, who are casting dice to see which wins the Mariner. When Life-in-Death, the most grisly of the two, wins, the other sailors one by one curse the Mariner with their eyes and die. As he full well knows, the Mariner's fate is worse than death. In utter desolation, with the dead men lying all around him, he tries to pray, but cannot, for his heart is still defiant. Thus, amidst the rottenness of dead men on a dead ship in a dead ocean, the Mariner 555 JULY 1965 lives on, suffering the anguish of his crime. But then, in spite of all his misery, he becomes conscious of beauty as he watches some water snakes swimming on the ocean surface, and miraculously at the climactic moment and dramatic center of the poem (in Part IV), he is so moved by their beauty that he exclaims ''O happy living things!" as "a spring of love gushed from my heart, and I blessed them unaware' — and then he can pray. The Mariner has now sinned, suffered the inevitable consequences of sin, and enjoyed the first glorious fruits of redemption from sin through repentance. The poem, as a parable of good versus evil, could end here; but it does not, for Coleridge is aware of the complex nature of punishment and redemption, and he goes on to explore these complexities, emphasizing that "the man hath penance done, and penance more will do." That one can never totally recover from the consequences of sin is the idea Coleridge stresses as the poem ends. Coleridge had unusual insight into the nature of good and evil; but, as Latter-day Saint readers with their greater insight through the restored gospel will see, apparently he did not understand the full power of the redeeming mission of Christ. The Mariner genuinely repents, and yet he still suffers the consequence of the sin once committed. Briefly he hopes to escape this torment and be fully free as he turns to a hermit (a holy man) with the thought, "He'll shrieve my soul, he'll wash away the Albatross's blood." But Coleridge knew, as any wise man knows, that one 556 mortal being has not the authority to save another mortal being from his sins, and so the plea to the hermit is in vain. The gospel teaches that every person will be held responsible for the sins he knowingly commits. The atonement of the Savior, however, makes it possible for him to be saved if he repents and gives obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Coleridge partly understood this truth, but not understanding it fully, he left the Mariner largely redeemed through repentance, but still suffering and partly enslaved by past deeds. In this discussion the moral aspects of the poem have been emphasized. Although these are important—and they are very important—to emphasize them alone somewhat distorts the poem. Therefore, the reader is invited to consider also those other aspects that make the poem great: its artistic richness, the magic of its haunting descriptions, the structural unity of its myriad details, and the compelling power of its fascinating narrative. All of these combine to make "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" one of the truly great poems of the world. Note to Class Leader Probably the most difficult of the four selections covered in this lesson is Wolfe's "Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time." It is also the least available if class members do not have copies of the text. Therefore, some groups may wish to omit this selection and devote full time to the other selections. On the other hand, some readers will appreciate the challenge of a story as difficult as Wolfe's. The class leader should decide which selections to emphasize as most valuable to her group. The other selections are all readily available in many books as well as in the text. For groups not covering Wolfe's story, probably the best approach will be to spend a few minutes on Blake's "The Lamb" and "The Tiger" and on Shakespeare's sonnet, then devote most of the time to Coleridge's "Rime of the Ancient Mariner." Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss the effectiveness in Blake's poem of the lamb as a symbol LESSON DEPARTMENT for good and the tiger as a symbol for evil. 2. Point out other evidences than those mentioned. In the printed discussion to show that Wolfe's story is filled with contrasts. 3. Discuss the further meaning of Shakespeare's line: "Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds." 4. Point out lines and stanzas—there are dozens of them—in Coleridge's "Rime of the Ancient Mariner" that you feel are especially vivid and excellent, explaining why they are vivid and excellent. 5. Discuss fully Coleridge's thoughts on the nature of sin and redemption from sin as reflected in "The Ancient Mariner." To what extent is Coleridge's insight limited as compared with the full knowledge of the restored gospel? While Apart Sylvia Lustig Bennion Reason would console With words: "Love knoweth no distance," It is true. And, a never-shoring ocean, Though tides are felt My love has no boundary From you. Yet, you are gone. The miles, no consequence, For just that | cannot hear Your voice, your song, Nor see your comely countenance, | am gripped with loneliness. And, here all logic seems ill, For the heart, womb of love, Has no will. And it shall not be satisfied With words oversimplified; It Knows well the distance From you. 557 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88, 89, 90 (Eight Lectures) by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.50 Available end of June from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 Write for Extension Publications Catalog listing talks given at BYU by General Authorities Incident of the Red Rose Lael W. Hill (Less transient than the red rose, Oh, let your love be!) The red, red rose, dew-heavy, Stood sweet with scent; How Carefully you stripped each thorn To offer me Only the Perfect blossom! Yet | am not content. The red, red rose has faded Before today was born, Stem bent down and broken, Twisted apart. | would accept together, now, The rose, the thorn. (Oh, let the love you offer Be rooted in your heart!) HAWAIIAN TOURS October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July 11—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN Tours TO EUROPE August 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Your kitchen stays cleaner when you If its electric, it's better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 558 MER TIME Is TRAVELING Time | ip Murdock Trave] Tour.. -or Individual Travel] --: NOw HERE ARE MURDOCK's HIGH QUALITY, LOW Cost Tours: us). July 24. 6. Autumn in Europe. Sept. 8. Ah Pageant & World's 1. Around the W Air), J L orld, Sept. 10. Uly 29 - Hawaii. Sept. 1). Rk & Lake Louise 7. MURDOCK TRAVEL IN 14 So. Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 328.316) DURABLE of keeping alive the valuable inMonth's Relief Society Maga. In an 'omely bound Cover. The Mountain West's first an inest bindery and into q durable volume, ail or bring the editions YOU wish bound to the Deseres News Press for the finest of SOrvice, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1899 days August 8-22 Cloth Cover — $3.25, Leathe; Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included dvance Paymen; must accompany all Orders. Please include Postag 0. E According to table listed below if bound volumes Gre to be iled. NEW ENGLAND AND CANADIAN FALL TOUR 30 days Sept. 4—Oct, 3 Esther James 559 mance Tour. July 10. Ah Pageant & World's i 5. Mt. Rushmore & Passion Play (by Bus), Aug. 14 Ouse js Prepared 4, bind your editions Parowan, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam Miller i Boru Layton, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Van Schaik Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Catherine McCarrell Dee Safford, Arizona Mrs. Louise Burt Evans Monroe, Washington Mrs. Mary Ann Mitchell Decker Richfield, Utah Driggs, Idaho Mrs. Agnes McBride Dummer i i hanan Fairview, Utah Moon-Beguiled Ethel Jacobson The sun pours its golden wealth Upon the sea— A sea that yields alone To the witchery Of the moon's Silver fingers, Quietly curled, Summoning it from half-way Around the world. 560 Mrs. Mary Ann Brown Clark 106 Provo, Utah; 93 Mrs. Amelia Jensen Topham Mrs. Lauretta Mattinson orup 9? Mrs. Clara Ashford Martin 9 Mrs. Nancy Smith Palmer Mrs. Alma C. Forslof Mrs. Beatrice Young Nelson Lee Adams; Mrs. Lilley Grange Coles Mrs. Eltoria Christensen Buc Mrs. Rose Cottingham Bushell Orem, Utah 90 Mrs. Martha Christensen Hansen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sophia Jensen Potter Las Vegas, Nevada St. George! Wien Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Brigham City, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elisa Rosa Ruegsegger Newhouse South Gate, California Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lula Hancy Erlandson Payson, Utah The Beacitudes wagansrag rT Dhein Woisany Bed Pree by J. Stanley Harrison The author, a convert to the Church from England, provides the reader with insight into his wholesome outlook on life and the world as a whole. This Way But Once deals with man's happiness, response to disappointment, and love of the gospel. $2.95 The BReutitudes by L. Elmer Peterson A Latter-day Saint interpretation of the 'Beautiful Attitudes' of the Savior. The author has taught in the LDS Church's seminary and institute system for thirty-five years and shares this experience in this volume. $1 95 Povresifng Vigghed @ eae by Monroe and Shirley Paxman For family home evenings. Month-by-month parties! Fun holiday suggestions for the whole family! Outlines for special trips! Penned by a husband and wife team... Winners of the Family of the Year award for 1960. $2.95 BOOC C0000DOOD ODOODOO DODO DOOD UOC OO COC OD COODOOOT 3 3 Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check...........; <a |S money order.........-.., | have an account, please i ES = React Book charge............ Amount $.........-....- a, a ce For the above numbered items: 1 2 3 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD.. OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 5 Ch) ree State_.........2.-0--Zip.........-. 3 Residents of Utah, please add 3% sales tax Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax. R. S. JULY '65 Seidel te: Rliciin ev..... See eee eeeeeeeneeeeeeeece cece eo eeee eeeeeee ee eee PAA SS i... 2... Nnn ence nee ee cece eee ene eee Hanae ne nelnesaeneelee Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah U&l Sugar gives you get up and go! For the active outdoor family, the natural food energy in picnic treats made-with U & | Sugar... Is vital for healthy, active bodies! Serve energy-high U & | Sugar treats often. Buy Energy High U & | the sugar from our land. Relief SOcicty Magazine Volume 52 Number 8 August 1965 Lessons for November om ~ - = =< Sé% cmmet Af eenoon Christie Lund Coles We were alone..... Summer stitched the still, Taffeta afternoon; And crickets embroidered The blue-green silk. Needle-point shadows Filled the waiting squares; Gulls picked out The mistaken threads. Geese cross-stitched the sky. We were alone.... Softly sewn Into this tapestry Which, somehow, bore Our laughing signature. The Cover: | Mount Hood and Lost Lake, Oregon Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Boulder Mountain, Utah, Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: Dick Scopes IIlustrations: | Mary Scopes 561 The Magazine brings me great comfort and peace of mind. | have typed the editorial 'Sufficient Unto the Day" (April 1965, by Marianne C. Sharp) and pasted it where | cannot fail to see and heed its excellent counsel. Most of the editorials and articles seem to be written just for me. What a blessing to be reminded of the right way in these days when so many media try to lead one astray. Wilma Jeanne Reckling Glenview, Illinois | always enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, and the June issue is no exception. How | enjoyed the article by Sister Fox "Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening." I have six, oh, so dear, and, oh, so different children, and home evening is indeed a time of inner prayer for me. Olga Milius Salt Lake City, Utah The March issue of the Magazine was wonderful, and we were delighted to see our own Lake District featured on the cover, and the lovely colored pictures of English scenes within. Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire England My husband and |! Read the article "Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England," by Claire W. Noall (March 1965) with great interest. Evidently, Sister Noall had studied much about the history of the Church in England. John and Helen Clegg Provo, Utah I fully enjoyed the recent article ''Latterday Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England," by Claire W. Noall, as well as the accompanying pictures of the beautiful landscape. Isaura B. Abegg Orem, Utah | appreciated ''Wind Valley,'"' the first prize poem by Lenora Hansen in the January issue of the Magazine, because even though Amarillo is on the high plains instead of in a valley, the "always, everlasting wind" blows here constantly. And for those of us with children, the poem "Progeny" (second prize poem by Pearle M. Olsen) couldn't help but make an impression. This poem was read by one of the sisters at our recent Relief Society birthday banquet. But even though | found the poems in January 1964 on the whole more readable, | must go back to 1963 for my favorite—''Quo Vadis," by Margery S. Stewart. Since this was a third place winner, my judgment evidently doesn't stand up with that of the experts, but the imagery of this poem was such that in reading it | could not escape a powerful emotion. Ellen Gross Amarillo, Texas "Grandson,"' the poem in the February Relief Society Magazine, composed by Christie Lund Coles, speaks the very thoughts for me. Both my daughter (the loving mother of my grandson) and! Enjoyed the tender descriptive words of this excellent poem. Christie Lund Coles is a great writer. We appreciate her talent and wish to thank her. Dana S. Benson Malad City, Idaho May | just send my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. My sister and | always read the beautiful poetry first, then the lessons, and so on. Then we pass the Magazine on to our friends, sometimes the Magazines go around the world from us. As | write, there is a snow blizzard outside, so | thank God for my little home, a fire, and now the January Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. A. Welleycose and Mrs. M. Allott Sheffield, England the Relief Society Wviecszine Volume 52 Number 8 August 1965 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 564 Lord, Increase Our Faith Bruce R. McConkie 569 Companionship of Couples Through the Family Home Evening Lila Walch 578 The Uninvited Guest — Mr. Germ Utah State Board of Health 580 Let's Speak Correctly Myrtle E. Henderson Fiction 572 Letitia Keeps in Touch Dorothy Clapp Robinson 599 Ring Around Her Heart — Chapter 4 Shirley Thulin General Features 562 From Near and Far 583 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 584 Editorial: Self-Reliance Louise W. Madsen 586 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 604 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 588 Home Again Fae Paulsen Thomas 592 A Family Blackboard Celia Larsen Luce 594 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions — Part I — Rosa Shurtz 597 Caster Cups for Many Uses Jean Crosse Hansen 598 Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and Fancy Quilts Lessons for November 611 Theology — The Earth and Man Roy W. Doxey 618 Visiting Teacher Message — "Pray Always, That Ye May Not Faint" Christine H. Robinson 620 Work Meeting — The Happiness That Comes From Work Winnifred C. Jardine 622 Social Science [for October] — The Dignity and Worth of Work and of Play Alberta H. Christensen 628 Social Science — Learning to Choose Wisely Alberta H. Christensen 633 Literature — Good versus Evil — Part II Robert K. Thomas Poetry 561 Summer Afternoon — Christie Lund Coles Farewell to a Son, by Margery S. Stewart, 568; To a New Chapel, by Maureen Davies, 571; The Mountain's Gift, by Enola Chamberlin, 582; Have You Ever Been Lost in Beauty? By Christina Cox Stacey, 586; After-Words, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 617; Three-Generation Bible, by Ora Pate Stewart, 619; Till Love Comes Home, by Rae Woolley Whited, 632; Lyric of Happiness, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 637: The Garden, by Catherine B. Bowles, 640. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Ot manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. RD INCREASE FAITH - "\. Ps Fy " 1 B ere) ( i a Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of the First Council of Seventy @ Faith like the ancients—what we would give to possess it! By faith all things are possible. To name the fruits of faith is simply to list all of the miracles, all of the gifts and signs, all of the events of creation, redemption, and salvation. By faith Enoch walked with God; Melchizedek quenched the violence of fire; Moses led Israel through the Red Sea; Joshua stopped the sun; Elijah called down fire from heaven; Daniel stopped the mouths of lions; and Moriancumer moved Mount Zerin; Peter and Paul raised the dead; and by faith, prophets in all ages have opened the eyes of the blind, unstopped the ears of the deaf, loosed the tongues of the dumb, healed withered limbs, rebuked diseases, restored health. By faith, men accept the gospel, forsake the world, become the sons of God, go on to eternal perfection, and gain mansions in that kingdom where God and Christ dwell. "Faith is... The moving cause 564 of all action in... Intelligent beings." It is a "principle... Of power." It "is the first great governing principle which has power, dominion, and authority over all things; by it they exist, by it they are upheld, by it they are changed, or by it they remain, agreeable to the will of God. Without it there is no power, and without power there could be no creation nor existence." So taught the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Lectures on Faith. The ancient apostles—knowing of the mighty deeds done by the prophets who preceded them, knowing that these things had been done by faith, knowing that faith was a principle of power— presented to the Master this petition: "Increase our faith." They wanted, through faith, what every saint, ancient and modern, desires—to have power to do all things which are harmonious with the will of God in this life and then to gain eternal salvation in the life to come. Jesus' reply (as far as the record reveals) did not answer their query. Instead, he spoke simply of the transcendent power manifest through the exercise of faith. "If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed," said he, "ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you" (Luke 17:5-6). And so the problem remains. As with the Twelve in Palestine, so with the saints today: How is faith gained, increased, perfected, until the man of God attains that spiritual stature which assures him of eternal life? ''Lord, increase our faith." As they petitioned, so do we pray: "Lord, Let us have power to uproot sycamine trees, to move mountains, to work miracles, to do all things needful while here on earth, and to be saved in thy kingdom in due course."' As they knew, so do we that faith and its fruits go together, that if we possess that power which is faith, we will enjoy those things which are the fruits of faith. Joseph Smith said: Because faith is wanting, the fruits are. No man since the world was had faith without having something along with it. The ancients quenched the violenge of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, women received their dead, etc. By faith the worlds were made. A man who has none of the gifts has no faith; and he deceives himself, if he supposes he has. Faith has been wanting, not only among the heathen, but in professed Christendom also, so that tongues, healings, prophecy, and prophets and apostles, and all the gifts and blessings have been wanting (PRESDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 270). LORD, INCREASE OUR FAITH Viewed in its proper perspective, then, the pursuit of faith becomes man's most important enterprise, for through faith men gain the greatest blessings both in time and in eternity. For the spiritual novice, the spiritually weak, the-seeker who is but beginning—perhaps even for the apostles who were told anew by their Lord of the power that is faith—the casting of sycamine trees into the sea seems, if not impossible, at least a difficult thing reserved for a favored few. AND so, perhaps, it is, for faith (or power) is found in all degrees and in all quantities. One man has faith (or power) to do one thing, and another has power (or faith) to do something greater. Thus the Prophet said: Miracles are the fruits of faith.... Faith comes by hearing the word of God. If a man has not faith enough to do one thing, he may have faith to do another: if he cannot remove a mountain, he may heal the sick. Where faith is there will be some of the fruits: all gifts and power which were sent from heaven, were poured out on the heads of those who had faith (History of the Church [DHC] Volume V, page 355). In gaining faith there must be a beginning point, a place to start, a time when the power that is faith finds initial lodgment in the human soul. Since faith comes by hearing the word of God (Romans 10:17), faith seekers must hear the word of God taught, taught in plainness and perfection by legal administrators who have power and insight and who teach the truth. Those who hear must elect to be receptive; they must make an SS AUGUST 1965 Initial choice to believe. Alma Stated it this Way: He then compared the word unto a seed, which, if planted in the heart and allowed to swell and grow, would enlarge the soy] and enlighten the understanding. Then he asked: "Would not this increase your faith?" (Alma 32: 27-28), Thus Alma, in general terms, tells how to lay a foundation for gaining and increasing faith, But it is left to Joseph Smith to spell out the details, to announce the Specific formula-for-faith, He said "that three things are necessary In order that any rational and 1. The idea that he actually exists: Correct idea of his character, Perfections, and attributes; and 3. An actual knowledge that the course of life which he is pursuing is according to his will (Lectures on Faith, Page 33). Following this perfect formulafor-faith will seem easy to some almost automatically fulfilled by every member of the kingdom; others seemingly require a con- 566 Son stood in glorious immortality before the destined head of this dispensation, there has never been any question in the minds of true Latter-day Saints as to the existence of Deity. We worship that God in whose image man is made; that holy and exalted Personage who is our Father in heaven; that Supreme Being of whom the revelation Says: "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but isa personage of Spirit" (D&C 130:22). As to having a correct idea of his character, berfections, and attributes—the problem is a little more difficult. By way of summary, the Prophet Spells out the character of God under these six headings: 1. "He was God before the world was created, and the Same God that he was after it was created"; 2. "He is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abundant in goodness, and... He was so from everlasting, and will be so to everlasting"; 3. "He changes not, neither is there variableness with him, and... His course is one eternal round"; 4. "He is a God of truth, and cannot lie"; 5. "He is no respecter of persons"; and 6. "He is love'"' (Lectures on Faith, page 38), Most members of the Church find it easy to set their souls in harmony with these eterna] truths which taken collectively make up the character of Deity. God's attributes are given as: Knowledge, Faith or Power, Justice, Judgment, Mercy, and Truth, and the Prophet explains that "without the idea of the existence of the attributes which belong to God, the minds of men could not have power to exercise faith in him so as to lay hold upon eternal life" (Ibid., pp. 42- 49). Here again the members of the kingdom find little difficulty in ascribing to the Almighty the very attributes which he _ possesses. "What we mean by perfections," the Prophet says, "is the perfections which belong to all the attributes of his nature." This means, for instance, that Deity has all mercy; that there is no part of this attribute which he must yet gain; that he is the embodiment, the personification, the total possessor of it all. It means he is not only a Being endowed with the attributes of truth and knowledge, but that he possesses these attributes in their fulness and perfection. In other words, he knows all things and is not gaining new knowledge or learning new truths. And so it is with each attribute; the perfection of God consists in possessing them in their fulness and perfection. These concepts are not too difficult for most members of the restored kingdom, but there are some who stumble to a degree by professing to worship a progressing rather than a perfected God. In explaining and amplifying the phase of the perfections of God which deal with truth and knowledge, Joseph Smith taught: Without the knowledge of all things, God would not be able to save any portion of his creatures; for it is by reason of the knowledge which he has of all things, from the beginning to the end, that enables him to give that LORD, INCREASE OUR FAITH understanding to his creatures by which they are made partakers of eternal life; and if it were not for the idea existing in the minds of men that God had all knowledge it, would be unpossible for them to exercise faith in him (Ibid., page 43). Now as to the third requirement in the formula-for-faith, that of gaining an actual knowledge that the course of one's life is according to the divine will— this is the place where the greatest obstacles are found. On this point the Prophet's language is: "An actual knowledge to any person, that the course of life which he pursues is according to the will of God, is essentially necessary to enable him to have that confidence in God without which no person can obtain eternal life'"' (I[bid., page 57). In other words, faith is born of righteousness; faith follows obedience; faith is the power which God gives to those who serve him in righteousness and in truth unto the end. What, then, is the revealed answer to the apostolic plea, "Lord, Increase our faith''? Surely it is this: Faith comes by hearing the word of God, by accepting the apostles and prophets who represent Deity, by learning the true doctrines of salvation. Faith comes because we let the seed of the word swell in our bosoms until light and _ understanding fill our souls. Faith comes when we believe in our hearts that God actually exists, when we accept the truth as to his character, perfections, and attributes. And, finally, faith comes, increases, and is tested as we so 567 AUGUST 1965 live as to gain the actual assurance that our lives are in harmony with the divine will. And when it comes, what glories it brings! Hear, in conclusion, the words of the Prophet: When faith comes it brings its train of attendants with it—apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers, gifts, wisdom, knowledge, miracles, healings, tongues, interpretation of tongues, etc. All these appear when faith appears on the earth, and disappear when it disappears from the earth; for these are the effects of faith, and always have attended, and always will, attend it. For where faith is, there will the knowledge of God be also, with all things which pertain thereto—revelations, visions, and dreams, as well as every necessary thing, in order that the possessors of faith may be perfected, and obtain salvation; for God must change, otherwise faith will prevail with him. And he who possesses it will, through it, obtain all necessary knowledge and wisdom, until he shall know God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, whom he has sent—whom to know is eternal life (Ibid., page 69). Farewell to a Son Margery S. Stewart All the night is hollow With your leaving, Where does the echoing begin. Far off or deep within? It must follow | be furnished again With believing. The cumquat tree was sundered, One branch taken For rooting elsewhere. (And is it | out there... Halved, | wondered, Am | the bleeding tree Bereft and shaken, Are you the young promise?) We, who were one strength, Now suddenly made two... Frail, uncertain, but new, Debtors to a premise And parting, but fruit bearing, | pray, after blossoming length. Is this then meaning of increase... Division that does not cease? 568 Companionship * of Couples: Lila B. Walch Member, General Board of Relief Society @ Sister Johnson smiled as she gave the finishing touches to the "low-calorie" dessert she had been preparing. What a difference a few years made in one's habits! Not only in the type of dessert planned for Home Evening; but in so many other ways as well. She thought of the preparations that had been necessary for Home Evening when the family was small and through their growingup years. There was always excitement, happiness, lively chatter and, usually, a bit of confusion as the children took their turns in helping with the plans and preparations. Indeed, there would have been no place for a "lowcalorie' dessert in those days. Nothing was done in "low gear' when the family was at home! Yes, a few years did make a difference. Tonight there would be no program numbers for proud parents and appreciative brothers and sisters to applaud. There would be no surprise dessert, kept hidden by the one in charge until just the proper moment. There would be no little ones to lead in thanking Heavenly Father for his blessings in the warm, loving way of those who have recently been in his presence. Tonight there would be no teenage attitudes to puzzle and challenge the parents. No fifteen-year-old Jim to act bored and a bit rebellzous, but to blend his spirit with that of the family as the evening progressed. There would be no sweet Pam, bubbling with excitement and eager to share her feelings with all who would listen. There would be no Frank nor David to add to the discussion of the lesson. Tonight, there would be just Brother and Sister Johnson—and the success of the Family Home Evening in this household depended on the attitude of these two people. Sister Johnson remembered her reaction to the bishop's announcement in sacrament meeting when he said that Thursday night was being designated as '"'Family Home Evening Night' in their stake. She had thought, Well, this does not involve us, we have no children at home. And then her mind drifted to other wards in other stakes where their children were living. She hoped that their bishops were making similar announcements. It was such a fine program for young families. Her mind had come back into the 569 AUGUST 1965 chapel just in time to hear the bishop conclude his announcement, "This program is for everyone. We expect all members of this ward to follow the counsel of the prophet who has said that parents should guide children, not arbitrarily, but through the kind example of a father and a loving mother." Of course, they would have to hold their Family Home Evening program. How else could they set an example, except by doing what they were asked to do? Even if the family could not be with them, they could share, through their letters, this wonderful program of teaching the gospel in the home. Sister Johnson thought of the precious Thursday evenings she had enjoyed with her husband since the time that the Home Teachers had brought the Family Home Evening Manual into their home. She thought of the night when the suggested activity for an older couple had been to make a list of the qualities they admired and appreciated in their children. How very special the evening had become when her husband began by telling her of the things he admired in her. How easy it was, then, to tell him of the qualities he possessed that had helped to build a happy home. Then followed a discussion of each of the children and, somehow, that night, distances were spanned and the sons and daughters had become a close part of the Johnson's Family Home Evening. There had been other nights when the children had seemed to be a part of the Family Council. There was the time when Frank 570 had written for advice concerning the buying of a new home. David had asked about an opportunity he had to continue his education. On one such occasion her husband had read to her from the Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons (1965), "It is a wonderful thing when parents and children can form a partnership that carries throughout the life of all. The partnership does not end at the marriage of the children.... Children work as hard as they can to achieve their place in life on their own merits, but they have the security of knowing they can rely on the counsel, support and help of various kinds from the parents if they are needed" (page 18). Tuis partnership, this feeling of sharing the joys and the problems of the family, had kept the Johnsons from feeling envious when some of their friends, who had children living near, had told them of special occasions when they had been asked to participate in a Home Evening Program with their grandchildren. To be with their family would be wonderful, but to feel that they were with you in interests, was also good. Sister Johnson thought again | how very blessed she was to have one night a week reserved to spend with her husband in a study of the scriptures and the gospel truths. She thought how much they had learned during the past year concerning their relationship to their Heavenly Father, to Jesus Christ, to the Holy Ghost, and to the Church. But there was so much more to learn! She thought of the wise words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., "As we get older, as I get older and become more reflective, I seem to know less and less about the Savior. I seem more and more to grow in wonderment and awe and in deep, heartfelt gratitude for what I understand he did for you and for me, for all of his brothers and sisters, for we all are such.... But it is our right, our duty, our prerogative to know these truths and make them part of our lives" (Behold the Lamb of God, pp. Owe)" Again she repeated in her mind: COMPANIONSHIP OF COUPLES "Tt is our right, our duty, our prerogative to know these truths and make them part of our lives."" Through this wonderful program of teaching the gospel in the home through the Family Home Evening, and led by the Priesthood, they would continue to learn and to set an example for their children—and they would thank their Heavenly Father for this privilege. Sister Johnson placed the dessert in the refrigerator, and with a song in her heart, went forth to set the home in order for the special Home Evening she would spend with her husband. To a New Chapel Maureen Davies Basildon, Essex, England (The chape! At Merthyr Tydfil, Wales, birthplace of Jennette Evans, Mother of President David O. McKay, was dedicated August 25, 1963.) Out of ashes, this has grown, Overlooking our scarred town. The houses that wind to this place Have stood to see time erase The scar of poverty. What tears, what sweat of brow Have fallen where this citadel stands now. Oceans, plains, mountains transcended, Old and new, two cultures blended, All to see a miracle arise— Golden spire to the skies! Beneath the trees, where shadows play Hide-and-seek with sunbeams At the close of day, The chapel seems, from where | stand, To be lit in gold by God's own hand. | do not want to leave, but | retrace My steps from this place— Hallowed, silent, filled with grace! 571 Letitia Keeps in Touch Dorothy Clapp Robinson f @ The chimes on the depot tower were striking seven A. M. As Tish Haworth turned her car onto highway 30 N.; beside her sat her good friend, Althea Johnson. Between the front and back seats was a large picnic cooler filled, as Althea knew, with: food. In a carton were jars of jam, jellies, and pickles. "Why all the food?' Althea asked. '"'Are we going to stay a month?" "We never travel where we are going without food and water. We have to cross a desert, and if we should happen to get stranded...." "Stranded! Didn't you have your car checked?" Tish almost stopped the car, then she stepped on the accelerator. "No—TI forgot; but the tires are good and I have a spare." Althea said nothing for several minutes, then she asked, "Who is this Jenny that we must cross a desert to find?" "T told you. I read this article by a very prominent writer and she said we should keep in touch with our old friends because old 572 friendships were the richest and most rewarding." "But why didn't you write first and see if she would like us to visit her?" "T don't know her address." "Then, how in the name of sense, do you expect to find her?" "T know where she used to live, and they aren't the type of people who move. I spent part of two different summers on their homestead. Jenny was an only child and her mother died when she was a child. I guess I was about the only close friend she ever had. After she was through school, she married a boy from the next farm. Then, when her father passed away, the husband took over both farms. They have lived there ever since." "How do you know? High school is a long time in the past. She could be anywhere by now." "Just trust me. I know what I am doing."; "T'll have to now my driver's license has expired; but how far is it?" "A good half-day's drive, and we may have to stay at Gooding all night on our way back. That is, if J enny doesn't insist we stay with her." Tish's tone implied that most certainly Jenny would insist—perhaps more than one night. Althea was a little dubious. She had been caught in one or two of Tish's enthusiastic adventures before. "Why all the food?" "Well—we can't tell just what circumstances we will find her in. I remember, they have no fruit where they live." "Then the fried chicken and baked ham are for us and the jams are for her," Althea said. Tish disdained to answer, IT was a glorious morning. The air, when Althea lowered her window, was warmly refreshing, but the wind promised heat. They were traveling parallel to mounthrough several small towns; then and the blacktop. Their watches said fifteen to "Perhaps we should have something to eat now," Althea sug- 8ested, "we had an early breakfast."; "Oh, no," Tish replied easily. "We haven't more than an hour and a half left. Jenny would not like our having eaten. She is the soul of hospitality." "But so many people are are always those who hunt free meals and free beds." LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH They passed through a farming section where the road followed farm boundaries. The roads were graveled, largely by nature; then the water was behind, 'and they were entering a Section of open high overhead and the mountains moved grudgingly nearer. As far Passing; rabbits loped across the road in front of them; and huge Magpies rose lazily out of the car's way but dropped quickly back to sorge on rabbits hit by Speeding cars. Tish had slowed her speed. She had been over this road before, but the curves were sharper and the road narrower than they had been then. Occasionally a car jumped at them from behind a curve. The drivers whizzed by with the utmost unconcern for road conditions. "What a Place to have a. - aan Althea didn't finish the thought, for it suddenly materialized. Tish the jagged boulder lying in wait for them; She swerved sharply, but the right rear tire struck it hard. She fought to keep the car under control, but it was a little distance before she could stop it. Althea was out at once. Fatal whistling was coming from the rear tire. The whistling stopped when the road met the rim. Tish slid from her seat. Reluctantly, she Surveyed the damage. "T can't understand why that 573 Tock should have been inthe road. Would never again forget to have ©u would think some Motorist ho, tires Checked, « © are going would have MOved it," up the Toad to Visit Jenny "Never mind understanding McHan." that," Althea interrupted, "do "Never heard of her." Pp ema you understand Putting on 4 new rose and dusted his hands. "Okay Wheel? After we et the old off, now." if we do?" "Can I 8ive yoy 4 sandwich?" "Well," Tish acknowledgeq a Tish Offered. She was 4NXious to Warcuing it done was not on women like you have no business the leve] of doing it, they Soon traveling this Toad, even y,; found out. By dint of Much dis. Good tires." With 2 Spurt of dust i W; ne, eave but their Strength. They he doesn't deserve jt," were hot, tired, and disheveleg "Did you Notice what he Said?" Althea seq ched rough the Althea a ed, "he ha just had Cooler 9 brought 4 thermos and his dinner S0 he could not have Sandwiches "Tf ave to Stay come far, yet h as never heard ere all night © won't go of Jenny M - ungry,"? Jumped. "T Caught a glimpse of road and into the Monotonous it. Let's 8et this food oyt of sight 8Tay waste. The lack of Color was Or the Tiver will think we are broken only by the Occasional Just Testing." Ag if they Could regt Patches of dark green Pinions. E! Came around a Curve. The driver ahead. Suddenly a darkigh cloud glanced briefly at them. The crept over them from behing and women looked at each Other jn dropped a splattering of rain. 6 <i aving trouble?" He Came ag it had Come, its shadow TrunWork. Tish hovereq Close, trying turn €ast and travel between to help and assuring him she them and the lava beds," They made the gradual turn, but when they were going east, Althea could see only three houses. One, far to the left, was nestled in a cove of the hill. On the right was a once-white house that now looked scorched and unlived in. Between the road and the bleak lava desert was a strip of farming land. Grain was in the head, and somewhere a mowing machine was clicking rhythmically. "No wonder your friend needs friends,'' Althea commented, wondering if their way lay around another hill. Bur a mile further on they approached the third house. From their first glimpse they knew it was different. It had been recently painted and a row of cottonwoods sheltered it on the west. Behind it were other buildings. "This is it." Tish turned into a long driveway. '"'Will she be surprised!" She hit three sharp toots on the horn. Nothing happened. Silence settled over them, broken only by the contented songs of many hens in the rear. Tooted again. No response. "I'm going in." She flung open the car door. There was no response to her repeated knocks. Tish tried the screen door. It opened and she went inside. A moment later she opened it again and called to Althea. "Come in. She is here." Althea walked slowly toward the house. She paused to admire a bed of blue delphiniums and sweet peas. As she went through the doorway she caught an unobserved look at Jenny. In age she was comparable to them, but Tish ° LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH she was small and her hair was a wispy white, and she was deeply tanned. Her expression was inscrutable. Tish was talking a streak and not waiting for answers. About the room were several exquisite oil paintings. "Jenny, this is my good friend, Althea Johnson. She came with me purposely to meet you, but since she sold her car she has no driver's license so I had to do all the driving...." Jenny nodded to Althea and smiled, but her eyes were impersonal. Tish's flow of words went on, but somewhere in her story they started dribbling. The next ten minutes were a torture of embarrassment. Quite without realizing why or when, the two were in their car speeding homeward. They had traveled ten miles before either spoke. "I can't understand." Tish's normally kind optimistic attitude was shattered; frustration, humiliation, and anger made her voice harsh. "After coming all this way she didn't even ask us to sit down or offer us a bite to eat." She underscored the last by a series of blasts from the horn. Cows grazing along the low slope looked up. One started to run. "Years bring changes," Althea tried to speak soothingly, "and it was rude of us to pounce on her as we did, and she was flustered." "She was flustered! What about me, after driving so far?" They made the returning curves in record time. Not only had they suffered frustration and disappointment, but they had missed their afternoon naps. The food in the cooler was not men- 575 AUGUST 1965 tioned the whole afternoon. "Let's eat," Tish stated as they entered Gooding. She stopped at the first cafe they saw. Outside it looked only passable, but inside it was cool and clean. The waitress led them into a dining room that was everything one could expect. The waitress was a woman not under fifty and very neat and intelligent looking. When they were seated Tish asked her about a motel. She mentioned several, then added, "But you are late. The best ones are usually filled by this time. I will give you a suggestion when I come back." THEY ordered and the waitress left. Althea's attention was caught by a painting on the wall she faced. "Look at it," she told Tish. Tish turned to see. She stared. It was a spot out of reality, but painted with a subtleness that spoke a message. From the east and the west, shoulders of white-topped mountains reached and touched toes with the dark forbidding lava beds. The home was surrounded. Safe. "Althea, that is the place we visited this afternoon." Just then the waitress returned. 'You are lucky if you got in there. She is very famous, and very kind to let this cafe hang that painting. It is called 'Safe.' " "Famous," Tish breathed the word softly. "My friend Jenny McHan famous." "That isn't her name," the waitress pointed to the autograph which they could not see. "Her name is Jeanie Whitsom. Mrs. McHan lives here in town, when they are home. She and her husband come in to eat quite often." Tish turned a stunned face to 576 Althea. "I have to find out." The waitress directed her to a telephone. When she returned, her face was shining but her dinner had cooled. "I found her," she gloated. "She is coming right down and we are staying at her place tonight. In the morning we are going back to visit Jeanie Whitsom. Apparently, she and Jenny are bosom friends." When Jenny McHan entered the cafe she recognized Tish at once. She was a little taller than Jeanie Whitsom and everything about her spoke of money, but in a cultured way. "Won't Mrs. Whitsom resent us?" Althea asked, later, when their dinners were finished. "She was sort of—of...." "She is stone deaf," Jenny explained, "'and is pestered by publicity seekers. She reads my lips, so we have interesting conversations. She is not only an artist but a _ philosopher. She _ has definite ideas about life and people." When they reached the ranch house the next forenoon Jenny opened the door without knocking and the three went in. There was no one in the living room or the kitchen, so Jenny pushed through a door at the back. They stepped into an_ unbelievable room, a studio. The windows were placed so one could see the magnificent setting of the home. There were numerous paintings about, as there would be in any studio. Jenny and Jeanie greeted each other in understanding camaraderie. Jeanie understood her friend perfectly and answered Jenny's questions unhesitatingly, but in 4 monotone peculiar to some deaf people. Tish and Althea had trouble understanding her. They discussed the paintings, the one in process of completion, the visit of Tish and Althea. Then over Jenny's protests the painter became hostess and served them an appetizing lunch with most of the ingredients coming directly from her garden, Her son, she explained, had taken eggs to market. WHILE they were eating, Jeanie went back to the studio and brought out a small brown envelope. Smiling mischievously she handed it to Althea. "For the two of you, but look at them on your way home." Thanking her, Althea put the envelope in her bag. When they were driving back, Tish asked, "When she is so famous why does she live in such an out-of-the-way place?" "They came here because of her son's health, but now that he is well, neither wants to leave. She gets inspiration from the mountains and the lavas." They stayed that night with Jenny and they were nearly home the next day when Althea thought of the brown envelope. She took it from her bag and drew out two pencil sketches, one of her, one of Tish. Tish stopped the car while they examined them. They saw themselves as Jeanie had seen them the first day when they had walked unannounced into her house. Althea's calm, uncomplicated nature had _ been depicted in swift, sure strokes. It was some minutes before Tish could chuckle LETITIA KEEPS IN TOUCH at her likeness. It was alive with conflicting emotions. "I didn't realize ] was being selfish." "She doesn't show that. You are not selfish." "Yes, I was, and strong-headed. I tried to patronize Jenny and renew our acquaintance on my own terms. I was ready to give her something I thought she did not have. And I was going to be a real lady about it." Althea leaned toward Tish and she held. "There is love and kindness in your face, but," she spoke slowly, "there is a trace of impetuosity in it." She was not sure that was the right word, but she did know Tish often rushed into things, "It was a fruitful trip anyway," she added as Tish Started the car. "You found your friend and made another and J found two friends." Tish would not Say anything more; but when they went through a gap and caught sight of their beloved valley, she turned the car to the side of the road and stopped. Then she started laughing. Althea was bewildered. "What is funny?" she asked. "You know," Tish answered when the explosion had passed, "I don't believe that woman made anything but marks, J think she meant us to see ourselves, so when we saw those sketches we were eager to interpret them to know what she thought of us. To find the anSwers, we looked into our own hearts and created our own images. It could have been the trip rather than the sketches that compelled us to see ourselves as others see us." 577 The Uninvited Guest—Mr. Germ Utah State Board of Health @ Women of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have enjoyed the reputation of being excellent cooks from the earliest days of the Church. Bake sales, Church picnics, banquets, and food fairs are an integral part of our Mormon culture. Whenever a Church auxiliary, ward or stake, sponsors a fundraising dinner and accepts "pot luck" contributions from its members, there is always a big turnout. Everyone is eager to show his appreciation for good home cooking. Since these Church social affairs are such an established part of our way of life, health officials would not want to see them abandoned, so they are anxious to bring a few vital protective measures to the attention of those who are responsible for food at such functions. By observing such Measures, participants are assured of safe and sanitary, as well as appetizing, menus. The Food Service Sanitation Manual of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare states that: Food-borne diseases have occurred and continue to occur from food served at clubs, church socials and suppers, at picnics, banquets and catered affairs. For this reason, public health authorities should work with the community group responsible for this type of food service operation, in order to insure the application of food protective measures. 578 Experience also indicates that too few health agencies take an active part in the supervision of food-service operations of churches and institutions having religious affiliations. This is a serious omission. The food sanitation principles are often not observed, the hazard in terms of potential food-borne illness is significantly greater than from foods-served by establishments under official supervision. Food poisoning is serious! It may occur as a result of food eaten in your own home, at a Church supper, or in the finest restaurant. Most often, however, it occurs when people unaccustomed to dealing with large quantities of food attempt to serve a large crowd. Bacteria that cause food poisoning lurk everywhere. It is hard to keep them out of food. For example, they are found in the nose, throat, and on the skin. It is therefore vital that personal hygiene be practiced and thorough handwashing be carried out prior to handling or preparing food. Keep hands away from food as much as possible. Use spoons or tongs and never re-use a spoon when tasting a mixture while it is cooking. Make certain that eating utensils are thoroughly washed and sanitized after each use. The mouth can harbor many types of germs. Whenever utensils come in contact with the mouth some saliva and germs are certain to remain on them. If not cleaned and sanitized, utensils and equipment used in preparing, storing, and serving, may contaminate the food. As a result, when this food is eaten, food poisoning or food infection may occur. When serving large groups at church socials and banquets, it is sometimes necessary to wash and sanitize silverware for immediate re-use. Many reliable and odorless chemicals may be purchased to add to the hot rinse water that will sanitize the utensils. One easy and inexpensive method is to add a tablespoon of ordinary household bleach such as Purex or Chlorox to each gallon of rinse water. The following hints are offered for those preparing food for large groups such as church socials: Make sure that food is of good quality from a reliable source. Noncommercially canned, nonacid and low-acid food, such as beans, corn, etc., should not be used. Discard all foods in swollen or leaking unopened cans. Keep cold foods cold—hot foods hot. Never let foods stand at room temperature. Do not undertake a large banquet, church dinner, etc. Unless there is adequate space to prepare, refrigerate, and keep hot food hot (140° F) and cold foods cold (45° F.) Use extra care in handling foods of high protein content, such as cooked and processed meats, meat products, poultry, eggs, gravies, fish, custards, and puddings. Such foods are easily contaminated through careless handling. Allow frozen foods to thaw in the refrigerator if possible. Because freezing tends to break THE UNINVITED GUEST—MR. GERM down tissues, foods are much more susceptible to invasion of germs after thawing. Once they are thawed never refreeze them. Food on display needs to be covered. It should be protected from contamination from saliva, from coughs and sneezes, flies and dust. Acid Juices, such as lemonade, etc., if prepared in advance, should be kept in stainless steel or other non-corrosive containers. Cooked ham or other meats so popular at group dinners, whether chopped or comminuted foods, have an affinity for staphylococcus germs. Avoid cream-filled or custard pastries, and Hollandaise sauce, potato salad, meat salads, and "warmed-over" foods. Proper handling of food served to the public has always been recognized as one of the most important factors in the protection of public health. The Utah State Department of Health, Division of Environmental Health, has published a nationally recognized seventy-one page, illustrated booklet, Food Service Sanitation Manual, as a guide in establishing more uniform and effective control of food handling practices throughout the State. The information is especially suited to church social functions as well as to commercial food handlers. Copies are available through the Utah State Department of Health. Another highly recommended booklet entitled, Serving Successful Snacks and Meals, for Club, Lodge, Church and Civic Groups, published by the Paper Cup and Container Institute, Inc., 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017 is available upon request. 579 iat s Myrtle E. Henderson, M. S. Gw English spoken in America today! That is what I heard a comedian on television grain of truth in the statement. We have only to listen to some of the mistakes made on television and radio, to say nothing of those made by people in too many homes, to be convinced that there is a little ground for such an indictment. We can overcome our errors if only we will listen to ourselves and make the necessary effort. Are you ever tripped up by the tense (time) of a verb or overcome by 2 participle? Some of these forms seem to be especially troublesome. Test yourself on these tenses: Which would you use? J. Will you (lie, lay) down? 2.1 (lay, laid, lied) down for an hour. 3. She had (laid, Jain) in bed all day. 4. Please (lay, lie) the book on the table. Lay means to place something, and is always followed by an object. Lie means to rest, and has no object. Now the thing that confuses many people is that lay is also the past tense of lie. The past perfect tense denotes that the action of the verb was completed at some definite point in the past. A look at these verb forms may help. Present Past Tense Past Perfect Participle lie lay had lain lying lay laid had laid laying So the first sentence would use Speak Correctly lie. It is an intransitive verb and has no object. The second sentence would use lay because it is the past tense of the verb lie and has no object. In sentence numcompleted in the past. In the fourth sentence, the verb has an object, and is in the present tense so lay is the form to use. Shall we use the participles in sentences? 1. The men are laying the carpet. 2. Mother is lying down. Here again we have the transitive verb form are laying and the object is carpet. In number two, is lying is an intransitive verb and requires no object. Lying is also the participle form of the verb lie, which means to rest. Pronouns get us into trouble when they do not agree with their antecedents (the word to which the pronoun refers). We must remember that a pronoun must agree with its antecedent in person, number, and gender. Look at these sentences: 1. Each girl should do her own work (not their). Girl is the antecedent of her, and is single, therefore her should be used instead of their. Girl is in the third person (the one spoken about), and feminine gender—two other reasons why her should be used. 9. Every man should pay his share. Now, can you find the pronoun and its antecedent? Can you give the rea sons why the pronoun his is the correct one to use? Such words as every, everyone, everybody, anybody, nobody, each, either, neither, and no one are singular in number. When they are used in a sentence the verb must be singular as: 1. Each of the boys was given a present: Each is the subject of the verb was given, and boys is the object of the preposition of. Everyone is going to the picnic (not are). 3. Neither Mary nor Jane has called (not have). The use of double negatives in a sentence indicates uncultured speech. The words aren't, no, doesn't hardly, scarcely, and but, are the most commonly misused. They are all negative forms and should not be used together in the same sentence. The sense of a sentence with a double negative is often questionable, or just opposite to that which the speaker intends. Now let's see if we can find out what is wrong with the following sentences: 1. He hasn't scarcely any friends. 2. She can't hardly walk since the accident. 3. I don't want no help. 4. We have hardly no bread. 5. He hasn't got no money. 6. He didn't learn nothing. Shall we change the sentences and use only one negative and see what a difference it will make with the sense of the sentence? Use a positive word with the negative, thus: 1. He has scarcely any friends. 2. She can hardly walk Since the accident. 3. I don't want any help. 4. We have hardly any bread. 5. He hasn't any money, or he has no money. The word got is entirely unnecessary in the sentence. 6. He didn't learn anything. Nothing is also a negative form and should not be used with didn't. LET'S SPEAK CORR ECTLY Are you guilty of these mistakes? Now let's have a look at words often misused or mispronounced. Do not say excape instead of escape. Do not Say depot with a short e as in end, instead of with a long e as in eat. Say dépot, not depot. Do not Say deef instead of deaf (def). Do not go to the liberry instead of to the library. Do not say li-lock instead of lilac. Remember that sego is the lily, and Sago is the pudding. Tamarisk is the shrub, and tamarack is a tree. A recipe is a list of ingredients of a mixture for cooking something, but a receipt is a written acknowledgment of a payment. If you give blood for a transfusion, you are a donor not a donner. Sometimes we hear people complaining that their arthurritis is bothering them. We might ask, "What is that?" If they say they are suffering from arthritis, we could be sure they are in pain, because there is such a disease. The word favorite has three syllables and should be pronounced fa vor it, not favrite. We often hear mistakes made on a group of words which are spelled with an 0, but are pronounced as if they were spelled with an a. For example: horse is often called harse, and hornet should not be called harnet. Some verbs often used _ incorrectly are: raise a transitive verb requiring an object, meaning to lift. Please raise the window. Rise an intransitive verb meaning to ascend. Rise above your environment. Rear meaning to bring up, to train. He was reared in an orphanage. Let us try to use better language! 581 582 THE GRAND TETONS, WYOMING The Mountain's Gift Enola Chamberlin The mountains beg my gyPSy heart to stay A month, a week, at least another day. But my clear mind says now that | must go Back to the duties of life, the debts | owe. And then they beg again that | should take A cedar sprig, pine cone for memory's sake. These are heart things. | let the mountains plead. For strength, not tears is what | greatly need, And this the mountain calm, the peace distills— A present from the everlasting hills. No gift to show the mountains legacy— Still do | bring their. Strength back home with me. Ramona W. Cannon at the University of Utah, June 11, received an honorary degree. Miss Ward, Editor of the London Economist, has frequent articles in The New York Times, has appeared on television in "Meet the Press," and is author of Faith and Freedom and The West at Bay. She was graduated from Oxford University, England, at the top of her class in politics, philosophy, and economics. She has the reputation of being among the best of contemporary speakers. Nationally famed Latter-day Saint children's ance director, presented forty young girls in a dance program at the University of California at Los Angeles in June. Doctor Alma Virginia Tanner, Representative Frances Bolton (Republican, Ohio) is eighty years old and still serving in the House of Representatives. In 1940, upon her husband's death, she completed his term of office and has served in Congress ever since. For some years she and her son Oliver were the only mother-son team in the House, but in the last election, Oliver Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain, accompanied by her husband Prince Philip, made an eleven-day state visit to Germany in May, traveling 1,500 miles on German soil. She is the first British monarch to enter Germany since her grandfather Vv went there on 2 private trip in 1913 on the eve of World War I. The purpose of the visit is seen as the setting aside of past hatreds. Linda Sistrunk, twenty, 4 coed at Utah State University, from Fillmore, was senior winner of the Yourself With Wool" national contest for 1965. She designed and made the costume she wore——4 navy blue brushed woo! Coat over a white wool dress with tucks and putton detailing. Her award is a trip to London, Paris, Nice, and Rome. Mrs. Gisella Gresser of New York City has been United States Women's chess champion for several years now. Among the eminent American women novelists considered and evaluated in Pioneers and Caretakers, by Louis Auchincloss, author and critic (University of Minnesota Press), are: Sarah Orne Jewitt, Edith Wharton, Ellen Glasi Elizabeth Madox Katherine Anne Porter, Jean Carson McCullers, and Mary Roberts, Stafford, McCarthy. 583 EDITORIAL Self-Reliance mw 'Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God' (D&C 18:10). Great is the worth of each individual soul; great is the love of our Heavenly Father for his sons and daughters; great is the gift of free agency which he has given each one. He who uses the gift best becomes self-reliant. He endeavors to fulfill in his own life the Lord's promise of more abundant living to those who seek the higher intellectual and spiritual life. 'Making a living is a necessity, but making a life is a duty, an everlasting blessing,'' President David O. McKay has said (Pathways to Happiness, page 1). Individual effort is required in ''making a life,"' the kind of life for which God sent his Son to make possible. No one should be so weak as to depend upon others for the things he should do himself. The weakest of the weak are they who claim that the world, or the Government, or the Church owes them a living. The strong rely upon themselves. Self-reliance is a virtue when divine guidance is sought. Self-reliance is a virtue when it is based on a conscious effort to achieve self-mastery, to eschew evil. Self-reliance is a virtue if it leads to service and does not become selfishness, nor self-complacency. Self-reliance is a virtue when it is practiced as dependence upon God and oneself to build strength and fortitude. "Our sufficiency is of God,"' declared the ancient prophet (I! Corinthians 3:5). It was not intended that anyone be completely selfsufficient. Self-reliance is not aloneness. It is more complete trust in the efficacy of keeping the commandments—a more complete reliance upon God's promised blessings. Nor does self-reliance rule out the influence of others, or make it necessary to withdraw from their company. Rather, it means an acceptance of the righteous lessons learned from others' teachings and experiences as part of the necessary Volume 52 August 1965 Number e Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Co @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Tr Preparation to make the fullest use of one's free agency. Self-reliance is by no means self-interest to the exclusion of thoughtful, loving kindness. "Confidence," Says Milton, "imparts a wonderful inspiration to its Possessor."' This inspiration leads to greater progress and trust in —L. W. M Anna B. Hart Winniefrea S. Manwaring Alice L. Wilkinson Lenore C. Gundersen Edith s. Elliott Elna P. Haymond Irene Ww. Buehner Marjorie C. Pingree Florence J, Madsen Mary R. Young frene C. Lloyd Darlene c, Dedekind Leone G. Layton Mary Vv. Cameron Hazel S. Love Cleone R. Eccles Blanche B. Stoddard Afton w. Hunt Fawn H. Sharp Edythe kK. Watson Evon w. Peterson Wealtha s. Mendenhall Celestia J. Taylor Ellen N. Barnes Aleine M. Young Elsa T. Peterson Anne R. Gledhitt Kathryn Ss. Gilbert Josie B. Bay Fanny §. Kienitz Beiva B. Ashton Verda F, Burton Alberta H. Christensen Elizabeth B. Winters Zola J. McGhie Myrtle R. Olson Mildred B. Eyring LaRue H. Rosell Oa J. Cannon Alice C. Smith Edith P. Backman Jennie R. Scott Lila B. Walch ; otes to the Field | The Relief Society Annual General Conference and Thursday, September 29 and 30, 1965. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 29 from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 29, in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, September 30, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. Have You Ever Been Lost in Beauty? Christina Cox Stacey Have you ever been lost in a field of clover, Where soft lacy clouds filter sunshine all over; i Where gay honey bees softly hum hour by hour, As they ardently kiss each delectable flower? Have you ever strayed into a maze, all aglow With sunshine above, golden blossoms below; Where pert dandelions, an artist's find, Bow tousled heads in the summer wind? Have you ever strolled under an evening sky, And beheld a myriad of stars on high;; While the shining moon, like a crescent bow, Glides silently down to the hills below? Such glimpses of rapture, with beauties admired, Are mine for the asking, no toll is required, } So when my soul hungers, stars 'in my eyes,; | follow the lane for a lovely surprise. Photograph by Josef M The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday 586: { ""{ inside and out a%. ' > ~ — fet rae J] "ee | ae Fae Paulsen Thomas Dear Sister: The unpacking is finished at last, and things are in some semblance of order, so I have a few free moments to catch up on my letter writing. I wish I might truly share with you my feelings on being home again, although it hasn't really worked out the way I had planned. Remember? I was going to return home rich and famous, and dazzle the whole town with my charming personality and money — especially my money. I was going to give Ray (who always said he would almost craw] on his hands and knees to see a World Series game) a season's pass for the best seat in the ball park. With television, he already has that now. I was going to buy Lu a Stradivarius violin so he could play the sweetest music in the world. And now that I'm home again, I find he already plays the sweetest music in the world on his old violin. I was going to give the ward enough money to build a beautiful new chapel. I guess they got tired of waiting for me, because they have already built one without my money. I was going to use my influence (which would be great) to get the dam built that would bring water in great abundance to this little valley — the dam folks spoke of when Mama was a girl, the dam they dreamed of when Greatuncle Frank was just a boy. Well, someone else had the influence, and the Government is building the dam right now. And this is what has brought us home again. I'm neither rich nor famous. The things I wished for are already here — maybe most of them always have been. I can't bring the people here anything but my memories and my love. Last Sunday when we went to church, I got just a tiny glimpse of what celestial glory may be hike. We have lived in many different wards in the Church. We always know that the people will be wonderful, but there is always that first time in a new place when you walk in just hoping for one familiar face! Last Sunday as we opened the door to the chapel, the people on the back rows and those who were standing near the door turned to look at us, as people do. Their welcome smiles were the ones they would have given to any stranger who came in. Then, as they recognized us, ber Which aughter [ as, but, The Grandpare ts have been almost to a Saint, the Said, "T] up for some tim an hear on't k you e, but | reat-grand a's gs €Ps where the Now you'r Julia's 8itl. How we: kitchen floor cre ks in front of did love your mother We truly the stove he p Ses with the Miss yoy dear p ents since they resh er, the es, ave gone r lady Said and ¢ e crea itcher When al] hat she believed t Dad was of us are here, w ave to pen y € nicest she ever met. The roun table d eat in th € air smells different here. Dining Toom 1 only one or etter than lace else [| ave two are yj Ng, we get to eat In ever been s nN the Porch the kitche » Where the 'ays and think 6 f Great-grang Grear-cranpp, is the barn, Pa's favorji h He has dropped h Y down to ¢ e COWs who are st Ping and ChewNaught like My own Mountain home, @ ous eautiful Zion foe = ing as he does the milking. Can the noe? When T Said, "Thank talks to him as One old friend to SS I'm Writing this late at night bering that "No one comes to the While [| listen to the "Cricket table in his night Clothes." We Choir." Do he Cricket Sound Come out In the kitchen just in IT shut MY eyes and I am a against the table in anticipation child again, lying Snuggly he. Of morning prayers. Grandpa tween you and Lainie in the Comes in across the doorstep that feather bed. It's six 0'clock in the IS so worn that there jg 4 hollow 589 me, and a drows into Wake. Are g er ulness, I again hear the Creak of Could be t edj 10ns of € tloor in front of the tove; [ Publication 4 litt] €ar a new Seneration of Crickets books ne give Great-g and hum Ingbirds: ear an &tandpa w en he led the fj Urcha Urcha lrd from Some. Choir jin Fo tain Where, and it moment foy his Copy of Josephus contaj Me to y lize that Ost thirt family hist his years have Passed, J ave to take dren, all of i a deep Teath to be ure J *t their secon birthday I really Smell sog ISCuits bakin their m th In the oven Oses are still early age n childbirth Coming utside My win OW a Copy of reat-g t-grandmoth have done for 4s long as I er's Patriarc lessj § in her can remember they have a Own h dwrit ade it so Ong as M. Member. Much g Part of hey life thay sh ° you recal] the toilet Soap J Copied jt 7) Memo use? N, €ry popular brand, I Orty years after jt Was now. Today iSCovered he why I 5 it go, It is the same And Relief Society Magazines! Clean Soap smel] that has always Stacks and stacks of them at,: Many tim € I washeq My in the @W€azine ands with It at thig unny little been Njoying Myself Just go sink? Th with it in this through articula Year, €ar little tub with the claw feet? All of the Installmen » and then any h things are gone there jg alting y til next rom th me now the Month to find out hat happens andma ds are Still here and rob almost touches + Seven in the oldest p e€ce of furniture In the house ceilin Some Ouse: is otograph f f the Ovely old le€ces are still Oseph Smith dma's fathe In the chin loset, incl ding the was one of his bo Yguard ere little glass chj ken sitt € oa ig 4n old ¢ PY of Deseret asket Y of Pleces have News dated 19 9, with a Picture turned avender age, the of Great-grandma's father in it, little ea henware Pitcher [yt is a fj "Seneration Picture with th k andle ang the taken on his nin ty- €cond birth handle off when I was fourteen the Photograph Was taken, he Was and, Instead ofa Scolding, I heard the oldest living, Continuous subdone. And his Copies of the Patrione of the Shoes jg 4 yellowed piece of white satin that looks as if it came from a wedding dress. There is also a little notebook with all of our birthdays entered. It was kept right up to date until 1947, when mother passed away. There is a little notation: "Pine trees planted today, October 9th, 1909." Some of our Great-uncle Ole's things are here, too, also some of his sister's keepsakes. An old cookbook dated 1879, a gift to her before she was married. It makes me feel real close to her when I see all of the little clippings and recipes stuck in between the pages. I tried her recipe for hand lotion, and my hands feel as soft as a baby's. Greatgrandma Caroline's Doctor Book is here, too. It is also dated 1879 and contains everything from caring for a speck in the eye to laying out the dead. Let me quote just a bit from the chapter on Tonic Medicines: Excellent results are frequently obtained by changing from one tonic to another when the first one fails or has ceased to do any good. Uncle Ole's graduation from the Teacher's Institute in 1886 is substantiated by a certificate signed by Karl G. Maeser, James K. Talmage, and George H. Brimhall. Also his marriage certificate to Aunt Mary Ann, signed in 1888 by Daniel H. Wells, and his missionary certificate signed in 1891 by Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, and Joseph F. Smith. The letters, letters, letters! One telling of the death of his little son, and another written to Grandma telling of the passing of his very young wife, Mary Ann. I didn't know until now that THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Uncle Ole had any children of his own. Here is the telegram Greatgrandma sent him to inform him of the death of his sister, our grandmother, when Mama was born. There is also a child's handsewed velvet waist, with rows and rows of tiny tucks, and a little pair of shoes like those on display at the Beehive House in Salt Lake City. I must see if they can be placed somewhere like that so others can enjoy them, too. I can hardly bear to have Ted repair the doorstep, although I know it must be done. The hollow is so deep now that the cold air comes in under the door, and the rains collect there as if it were a cup. The pine trees have all been cut down except the one by the west door. The old barn is sagging dangerously, and the town beautification committee says we must pull it down. But the lovely old house is still snug and warm after nearly ninety years. Greatgrandpa built the home for his wife Amelia and their two small babies. Mama was born here, as were you and Paul. On my wedding day in 1946, we helped our greatgrandparents to celebrate their seventieth wedding anniversary right here in the parlor. Lainie was married here. Alma was carried from here for the last time on the shoulders of six of his army comrades to the little chapel just down the street... The house seems to vibrate with memories.. -. I am part of the house, and it is part of me. We belong together, and I am truly home again!: With love, your sister 591 Loretta adds raindrops to the house picture drawn by an older friend. A ww" j. F a o" i; T2te2 Tad: ' WIAaALAUUdTG Celia Larsen Luce @ Parents spend great sums of money for educational toys, yet often ignore one of the cheapest and best —a blackboard. At least it is one of the cheapest if you are willing to make your own. This is easier than most folks think. All you really need is a smooth surface and some blackboard paint. Of course, moldings make a nicer finished product. A blackboard painted on the wall is best, as there is no bother with an easel and no storage problem. The blackboard can fit into the decorative scheme of your family room, kitchen, or a child's bedroom, for the paints come in colors other than black and green. Check with your paint dealer far enough ahead so he can order the color you wish. Black is easiest to find and best for most purposes. The wall surface must be smooth. Run your hand over the wall to check this. If you have a wall of painted plasterboard you should have no trouble. Masonite will supply a smooth surface if your walls are not smooth. If you are renting, perhaps you would prefer a masonite blackboard that could be hung on the wall and taken with you when you move. It is much easier to make and use than an easel blackboard. Make your blackboard large enough. Tiny children use only the 592 Tt holds Chalk a It catches dust ide Chalkb ard wil] Ch most of the dust t at falls, & clean & easier you have Painted the b ackboar On the 1, framj § it is eas ust use ome allpaper border 4nd paste j 4round the edge Your umber Nn supply Iding jg You prefer that OU use Masonite you wil] need oldin Most ealers wil] Cut it to your measurements, Cutting the Corners for easy fitting, The Molding and chalkboard can be Painted to Match you, Toom, €eping a blackboarq Clean igs Somewhat of a Problem, Many use an €raser that ls rubber On One side and chamois Skin on the Other. The rubber €rases off the chalk marks and the chamois skin cleans off the dust Comes off on the cloth, n untreated rough cloth, however, will do a 800d job of dusting off the blackboard. Never Wash a blackboard It just Makes the Chalk dust into 4 paste that Is almost impossible to Temove, Too much Washing also takes off the Surface 8ive it another Coat of Paint, numbers to call and Messages May be Written, Names to be remembered and reminders of all Sorts may be Posted on the blackboard, One woman has 4 great treasure of Memorizeq thoughts and verses €n she finds Something She likes, She tacks it up Where she can See it as She Works, What better Place for this than a kitchen 393 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions (In Three Parts) Part | - Main Dishes, Casseroles, and Meats Rosa Shurtz ™® Quantity cooking presents special problems in food handling, but improved modern processes of canning, freezing, and packing foods are great time and labor savers for inexperienced cooks. Costs of commercially prepared food are about the same as homemade when time and labor are counted. Buying good grade, ready-prepared main ingredients, experimenting with seasonings, adding fresh or home-prepared products to complete the dish, produce the good home-cooked flavor that is the main appeal of bazaars and fund-raising dinners. Wholesale houses will sell to an organization, and there are also supply houses for restaurants, cafes, and other institutions in all large cities, where quantity purchases may be made. The butcher will usually quote restaurant prices on meats and will bone and slice the meat. Many bakers and restaurants will roast turkeys and other meats if your facilities are not adequate. Some bakers will order doughnut, cake, gingerbread, and other prepared mixes in bulk, from their own suppliers for an organization. If facilities and space for quantity cooking are limited, instant mashed potatoes are a time and nerve saver. Some products taste exactly what they are - "dehydrated potatoes," but home testing with small packages will lead you to the best. The freezer is the right hand of the fund-raising dinner cooks. Uniced cakes, baked piecrusts, rolls, bread, and cookies can be made ahead and frozen, saving last-minute rush. Leftover meats can be cooled, diced, and covered with either leftover gravy or instant bouillon dissolved in water, frozen, and used another time for salads or casseroles. MEAT LOAF (50 Servings) 31% Ibs. Ham, ground 2 large onions, finely minced 31% Ibs. Lean pork, ground 14, tsp. Pepper 31% Ibs.. Veal, ground 2 tsp. Dry mustard 6 c. Finely crushed prepared 2 tsp. Accent stuffing mix lf needed, salt to taste 1 qt. Warm water 2 large family-size cans 8 eggs, beaten tomato soup 594 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Mix all ingredients, except tomato soup, together thoroughly. Shape into loaves and place in well-greased pans. Bake 45 minutes in 325° oven. Pour tomato soup over loaves, cover with silver foil, and bake 114 hours longer. Let stand for 5 to 15 minutes before slicing. Serve with either of the following: GRAVY 8 c. Beef gravy 3 cans mushroom steak sauce 1 can tomato soup Mix together and bring to boil. Beef gravy can be made from instant beef bouiilon. Yield: 14 c. Per serving CREAM SAUCE 4 c. Creamed cottage cheese 1 tsp. Sugar 2 2/3 tbsp. Prepared horseradish 114 c. Cream, whipped 1 tsp. Prepared mustard Beat cottage cheese well with wire whisk, add seasoning, salt to taste. Fold in whipped cream. In fe AS SSS - Ties S\ DP cn N rT RAI (50 Servings) 8 Ibs. Lean hamburger Y c. Soy sauce 2 Ibs. Sausage 12 eggs, slightly beaten 3 tsp. Accent 2 tbsp. Salt 4 cans bean sprouts, chopped fine 5 c. Finely crushed prepared 6 bunches green onions, stuffing mix chopped fine (use tops) cornstarch oil Mix all ingredients, except cornstarch, thoroughly. Roll into balls, roll balls in cornstarch, and fry in oil until brown. Drain well. Cover with the following sauce and let simmer until they have a glazed appearance. May be served over rice. Variation: Leftover ham, ground, can be used. SAUCE 2 c. White vinegar 1 tbsp. Ginger 4 c. Pineapple juice 14 tsp. Salt 14. C. Sugar 1 c. Cornstarch 6 tsp. Instant beef bouillon 2 c. Cold water 4 c. Hot water Bring first seven ingredients to a boil. Dissolve cornstarch in cold water and add, stirring constantly. Cook until thick and clear. Add pepper or other seasonings, as desired. QNIITWICDAD CLunDOTraAYVr (50 Servings) First Mixture 34 c. Melted butter 25 pineapple slices (save juice) 2 c. Brown sugar 21% qts. Ground ham Combine melted butter and brown sugar. Spread in bottom of three pans (16" by 10" by 2''). Arrange half slices of pineapple on this mixture and carefully add ground ham. 595 AUGUST 1965 Second Mixture 114 qts. Corn meal 4 eggs 11% qts. Sifted flour 1144 qts. Milk 1 tbsp. Salt 114 c. Soft shortening 1/3 c. Baking powder Sift first four ingredients into mixing bowl. Add eggs, milk, and shortening. Mix at low speed until fairly smooth, about 14 minute. Do not overbeat. Pour over ham and bake at 425°, 25 to 30 minutes. Serve pineapple side up with sauce. SAUCE 8 c. Crushed pineapple 3/4, tsp. Salt 10 c. Pineapple juice 214 c. Cornstarch (add water as needed) 11% c. Water 114 c. Sugar Combine pineapple, juice, sugar, and salt. Bring to boil. Mix cornstarch and water, stir into hot pineapple mixture, and cook until clear and thick. Mustard sauce may be used, if desired. POLannaac e (50 Servings, 1 pompom for each) 3 qts. Cooked rice 4 tsp. Pepper 3 c. Diced celery 2 tsp. Accent 6 tbsp. Flour 2 qts. Diced cooked turkey or chicken 3 c. Chopped walnuts 2 c. Melted butter 14 c. Minced green onions (use tops) 8 eggs, well beaten 2 tsp. Poultry seasoning Combine rice, celery, flour, nuts, onions, salt, seasoning, and meat. Add melted butter and eggs to moisten. Chill. Shape into balls, using a No. 8 scoop. Roll in bread crumbs. Place on well-greased shallow pan and bake about 30 minutes or until crisp, at 425°. Serve with sauce made from cream of chicken soup, cream of mushroom soup, or instant chicken bouillon cubes. May be prepared ahead and freezes well. SWEFT POTATO CASSEROLE (50 Servings) 2 no. 10 cans sweet potatoes 4 c. Sugar or Y% |b. Butter 10 Ibs. Sweet potatoes, cooked 1 tsp. Cinnamon 3 no. 214 cans halved apricots 14, tsp. Salt 8 c. Water (use apricot juice cornstarch dissolved in water, for part) as needed for thickening. Slice sweet potatoes into buttered pan. Add layers of apricots. Heat water and juice, sugar, butter, salt, and cinnamon to a boil and thicken with a paste of cornstarch and water. Pour over potatoes and bake about 35 minutes at 350°. Variations: Peeled, cored, sliced apples may be used instead of apricots, also Pineapple tidbits or broken slices of pineapple and pineapple juice. Brown sugar may be used in place of white or maple syrup can be used to add maple flavor to apples and sweets. DUTCH SAUERKRAUT AND WIENERS (50 servings: 14 c. Sauerkraut and 2 wieners) 1 Ib. Diced bacon 2 c. Brown sugar 14 c. Finely chopped onion 14% c. Celery seed 2 no. 10 cans sauerkraut 100 wieners 1 pt. Diced apples 596 2 tsp. Salt 6 c. Finely crushed dry bread crumbs THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Cook bacon until crisp. Pour off all but 14 cup fat. Saute onions until soft. Add all ingredients except wieners. Heat about 15 minutes, stirring. When hot. Add wieners and let simmer gently until wieners are heated through. If necessary, add a little hot water. Ee a (50 Servings) 12 Ibs. Carrots: 3 c. Water 4 tsp. Salt Wash, peel, and slice carrots. Bring 3 c. Water and 4 tsp. Salt to boil, add carrots. Cook gently until done, but still crisp. SAUCE 144 c. Butter 3 qts. Hot water 3 c. Sugar 2 c. Orange juice 34, c. Cornstarch 34, c. Lemon juice 2 tbsp. Salt 6 c. Toasted coconut Melt butter; add sugar, cornstarch, and salt to make smooth paste. Gradually stir in hot water and cook until clear and consistency of thin white sauce. Add orange juice and lemon juice, and fold in coconut. Serve over cooked carrots. Note: The sauce is also very good for sweet potatoes. TUNA LOAF 8 large (1214 oz. Cans) chunk tuna 4 tsp. Sait 8 tbsp. Lemon juice 2 tsp. Accent 16 tbsp. Grated onion 2 tsp. Pepper 2 c. Finely chopped green pepper 8 eggs, beaten 8 c. Grated cheddar cheese 5 14 c. Evaporated milk 12 c. Dry bread crumbs Break up tuna. Add lemon juice, onion, green pepper, cheese, crumbs, and seasonings. Mix milk and eggs, add to tuna, and mix well. Shape into loaves on well-greased pan. Bake 35 minutes at 350° until firm and lightly browned. Serve hot with lemon or a sauce made of cream of mushroom soup. Jean Crosse Hansen I have found most useful a discarded glass "caster cup" 2% inches in diameter at the bottom (such as we used to put under the legs of the furniture) as a receptacle for pins when I am cutting out a garment. It holds down the tissue paper pattern at a critical point, and slides easily on the cloth. I also use the cup when I am working with papers to be filed, such as clippings, recipes, and carbon copies of business letters. It serves both as paperweight and pin tray. It is handy as a stand-in for a candlestick. I light a candle, dribble a few drops of melted wax into the cup, and press the bottom of the candle down into the cup. It stays. 597 Jennette T. Chamberlain Makes Plain and Fancy Quilts Jennette Thomas Chamberlain of Cedar Valley, Lehi Stake, Utah, is an expert in many varieties of handwork. Her acquaintance with needles and thread and crochet hooks began in her girlhood days when she lived in the mining towns of Sunshine, Mercur, and Cedar Valley. She has made hundreds of quilts for her children, grandchildren, friends, neighbors, and relatives. She has made patch quilts, pieced quilts, appliqued quilts, and has tied heavy quilts for the use of ranchers and hunters. She has made hundreds of embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles. She learned in the early years of her marriage that the true homemaker can create beauty in any place, and under difficult circumstances. She prizes her flowers, indoors and out, and she raises a small vegetable garden each year. She takes a keen interest in genealogy, and has helped many of her friends to make accurate records and to do temple work. She loves Relief Society and has been a visiting teacher for fifty years. Mrs. Chamberlain is the mother of fourteen children, six of whom are living, She proudly counts her grandchildren at forty, with eighty-six great-grandchildren and twelve great-great-grandchildren, and seven step-grandchildren. 595 Shirley Thulin Chapter 4 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, encourages Tom, a young paralyzed patient, to think of the things that he will be able to do, and to plan for his future. Joan is criticized for this attitude. The hospital administrator, Dr. Niles, person, and Joan wonders what he is Dr. Niles, invites Joan to spend a wee B® Joan settled back in the leather seat and felt the ripple of excitement go through the atmosphere inside the bus. People going someplace, she thought, are interesting. She looked around her. Nearly everyone was smiling, even Kathy, though the feeling between her and Joan was still not what it had been the first day she had asked Joan to come home with her for the week end. "Your folks know I'm coming?" Joan asked. "Yes, I called them yesterday. I can just see Mom. She's been cooking and cleaning all day." "Oh, I hope she doesn't go to too much bother." "Don't worry, she loves it. A week-end guest keeps her going all the rest of the month. Gives her something to think about." "T can't wait to meet her." "I hope you won't be bored. There isn't much to do... Just talk, and ride horses, maybe." appears to be a stern and withdrawn really like. K end at the family farm. Kathy, who is a niece of "T']] just love it. I've missed the farm." "You've lived on a farm?" "Most of my life." "T'd never have known... You're sO... SO different from the farm folks I know." Kathy reddened a little, as if she wished she hadn't said that, and Joan decided to pretend not to notice. Mrs. Kirk was just about as Joan had pictured her. A lot like Kathy, only taller and with the same dark eyes. There were laugh wrinkles in her face and around her eyes, and she gave Kathy a big hug as though she hadn't seen her for months instead of only a week. Mr. Kirk was brown and tall. He was friendly, too. The drive from the station to their farm took only a few moments, and they didn't get a chance to say much. Joan felt as if she'd always known these people. "Where are the children?" she 599 AUGUST 1965 asked as they pulled up to the they went for a walk to the barnfront gate. Yard to check the water trough. "There wasn't room to bring "Richard forgets to fill it somethem all, so we left them home," times," Mrs. Kirk explained, but Mr. Kirk explained. Kath laughed. "Get ready for the attack," "She only wanted you to have Kathy warmed Joan. No sooner 30 excuse to be outdoors and see seemed to appear from every diplained. Yection, all talking at once and "Vm glad," Joan said, and she nearly taking Kathy apart with really was. The night was 5° still affection. And so gentle, it felt as if it were "Take it easy kids. Hey, I wrapping i around her want you to meet my friend." She almost had forgotten Kathy recited names and ages. Could get. "It's so lovely." She "Barbara is fourteen, and Richard stood by the fence post and twelve, Bonnie ten, Lisa nine, and looked uP, and felt the breeze little Joey six." touch her. The others said "Hello" or "Now you see why I come "pi" as they were introduced, every week end?" Kathy asked. But Joey smiled with a special Joan shivered. She suddenly smile and his eyes sparkled. Felt a chill go through her. "Let's "Youre pretty," he said, "want 89 inside," she said. To see my duck? Pester had some Joan couldn't believe her ears. Babies. Want to see?" "Oh, not now, Joey.-- let Joan "wake up, Joan, it? S morning an come in and put her things you said you'd come see Pester." away," Kathy told him. She opened her eyes and could "Besides, it's too dark," his barely see the outline of Joey mother reminded. And Joan realagainst the faint light of the winized that it was dusk, though she dow. Hadn't noticed before. Joey took "Joey.-- MY goodness - - - Joan's hand and stayed near her it's still night time," she said. All through the evening meal and "No, it's morning, sé right up until he was sent to bed. Pulled the blind so hard it flipped "Tn the morming will you come up and around and around. And see Pester?" he asked. Yoom didn't look much hi "J surely will, J oey." Joan with the plind up than it did bewatched him follow the other fore. Children through the doorway; "Tel] you what," she said. And there was 4 special feeling "You come in My bed until it's inside her. Light enough to see Pester. Besides, the ducks will still be THE evening passed all too asleep, and they won't like it if soon; Mr. And Mrs. Kirk were we wake them up so early." interesting. The conversation was Joey slipped into the bed bestimulating, and just before side Joan and promptly fell Kathy showed Joan to her room, asleep. But Joan didn't sleep any ' more that morning. The nearness of the child brought a contentment to her that she had never felt before. Everything was S0 still and peaceful. I can't do it, she told herself. I can't tell Kathy to stay at the hospital, not even for one week end. Then she smiled. Kathy's strategy won out, she thought. She knew T'd give in if she could get me to come here with her. Tue visit to Pester and her baby ducks turned out to be a visit to every animal on the farm, accompanied by every child in the family, and all before breakfast. My, such chatter and such excitement! It wore Joan out, but she loved every minute of it. By the time they reached the house, she was more than ready for the big old-fashioned farm breakfast. "Did they walk your legs off?" Mrs. Kirk asked. "A}most, but it was fun, and I now know every animal's first name." "P}] bet you do," laughed Kathy. "I'll bet you I] never want to come back again." "On the contrary. - - "' Joan looked right at Kathy. "I'll be envying you every week end." Kathy looked quickly at her mother, then back at Joan. "Every week end?'' she asked. "She can come home, like always?" Mrs. Kirk was looking at Joan, too. "Well..." Joan smiled. "It's as Kathy said, if no one else seems to mind, why should 1?" "Oh, Joan - - 2" Kathy's voice was soft, and her eyes told what she couldn't find the words to say. The evening shades were being RING AROUND HER HEART drawn on a wonderful day when a gentle rapping at the door brought Mr. Kirk to his feet. He opened the door and a tiny woman came in. She was wearing a hat, the kind made of shiny black straw, on her white, straight hair and Joan could tell she didn't always wear a hat, only when she went someplace special. "Oh, Addie," Mrs. Kirk went over to her and gave her a hug. "How was he today?" "Bertha... He... He's.- - "Here, sit down, Addie," Mr. Kirk offered a chair. "How is Tom?" "He isn't as good as he was last week. He..- - JT don't know. Something has happened. He wouldn't 'hardly talk to me. Oh, Bertha...-" Kathy glanced quickly at Joan. "Mrs. Aines, this is Miss Morgan. She's a nurse. - - I mean, she's the head nurse at Hillcrest. Joan, this is Mrs. Aines, Tom's mother." "Oh, Mrs. Aines, I'm glad to know you. I've been working with Tom. He's going to be fine." "Going to be fine?" Mrs. Aines looked from Joan to Kathy and back again. "How can you say that? His legs - - - they've all told us he'll never be able to walk again." "They're right. He may never again have the use of his legs, but with braces and...° "Braces?" Mrs. Aines stood up. "What good are legs in braces on a farm?" "? Im all the chores - - - but believe me, Tom could do an awful lot. There are ways now. He could go 601 AUGUST 1965 to school and learn to take care of the business end eo: "Oh, J oan!" Kathy's eyes were flashing. "How could you? Can't would be encouraged if son in Tom's condition and someone told me: - - = "But you don't have. You are only guessing and you are wrong, Joan," Kathy told her. "Now, now - - » Mr. Kirk said. "Tt's true, they do some marvel-, I have made him begin to think. It will take time, b he soon will begin to be dissatisfied with lying in 4 oo "Last week coming hom where I can tend to him - -- T can be close to him." "Now, now, i put her arms around her shoulders. "Byerything will be all right, the back door and Ww to the water trough. She felt the 602 night again, but it was different ight. It wasn t gentle You have to Patients respond to a symp heart. You ave a-:- what was jt Dean said? I ground your WJOAN was stunned as she thought, so everyone really 1 am mean. "Kathy, not a lot older than you are, b T've lived through much more. You see, m the other hospital in there were friends an neighbors and loved ones. For crippled, and die, q little of me was hurt and crippled, too. "Then Scott, my nei hbor, was me. The Doctor didn't get and her husork. I was only ten, and J decided then that he lay with his face to the wall, We all felt "Then a new doctor came from how to died of a ruptured appendix! But he had walked again, Kathy. He had lived again. "And all this made you so bitter?" "That and. -- and I was in love. 1 was in love gnd let it show. That was 2 mistake." "You're wrong again, Joan. You have to give affection in order to receive it. Can escape hurts, Joan. We just have to learn to live with them." joan looked beyond "You are young, Kathy. You will find out. Some day 1 know." front of nd Joan and Kathy knew that Mrs. Aines was leaving. THE car in "y think I'd better take the pus RING AROUND HER HEART back tonight," she said. "Nonsense," Mr. Kirk told her. "Of course not, dear," Mrs. Kirk said. "You must not ~ that." "Addie was upset, of course, but I am sure you are doing what you think is pest." "Tf only the others could see," 'd. "But | know Tom will be back on the farm by the end of the summer. He may even be goon. "you must come back again real soon, Joan," Mrs. Kirk invited. "JT will," Joan promised. "Next Friday," Joey decided. "No, not next Friday, Joey," joan told him. "But all Pester's ducks after you, and you have to come and see them." "You mean there are six ducks "Yup "? "Oh, Joey you re impossible," Kathy told him. "Joan!" Joey's eyes were searching and his chin quivered. "J don't want you to go." "Now, honeyYl come back one day real soon," and Joan turned to get into the car. "Joan, give me a big hug; like Kathy did." She turned and leaned down, and all her reserve melted away for just a moment as she felt the little arms warm ground her neck. (To be continued 4 Relief Society Activities Tk LA ee es herve l teh e@er np: 4 (OBL: - Fee peh ge bls sR GE eS eh yeeih ue a Smithfield Stake (Utah) Presents '"'Mother's Sewing Machine" May 1965 Front row, left to right: Gayleen and LaDawn Eppich; Elaine Goodey and son Tim; Nancy Smith; Marie Goodey; Annie Peterson, sewing instructor; Reta B. Spackman, stake work meeting leader. Back row, left to right: Evelyn M. Eppich; Ila Bradshaw; Carol Noble; Bonnie Gittens; Lorraine T. Snelgrove; Sybil Packer, who sang a clever song to correlate with the narration; Myrl E. Rich, a ward work counselor; Arlene T. Rigby; Kay Loosle; Peggy Salisbury; Tellma G. Thompson, Stake Work Counselor. Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake leaders, recognizing the need for helping the sisters to learn better thrift practices, have encouraged sewing schools to be conducted in the wards under the direction of Sister Spackman, with Sister Peterson instructing the ward sewing instructors in the leadership meetings. The sisters participating in the classes have expressed joy and satisfaction in learning better methods of sewing. "Ward and stake leaders enjoyed an inspirational presentation 'Mother's Sewing Machine' in a stake leadership meeting in May. Many of the fashions which had been created as a result of the sewing classes were modeled by the ward instructors and others." AU material submited far publication in this deqartinent sluidd te sent throweh the stake Relef Secety presmients or missing Peliel Meerely pues idents or supervisors. And should be addressed to the bithtaraat | ef rnernt, Relief Sowiely Magazine, 7h North Main Salt Lake ¢ bal { lf ew regulations sw rre ing the submittal of Notes | pom t le ' 4 / ibe 1964 i "Charter Flight—Around the World in Eighty Minutes" April 9, 1965 Betsy Dingson, Brooklyn Branch, stands in the Scandinavian booth. She served meat balls and demonstrated knitting. Lyle Paine, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Through the coordinated effort of the New York Stake Relief Society board, directed by Elizabeth Merrill, stake work meeting leader, a very enjoyable and successful evening, attended by some 550 members, husbands, and friends of Relief Society was held. Invitations were sent to every sister in the stake to 'A Charter Flight—Around the World in Eighty Minutes.' "The guests were greeted by Relief Society sisters costumed as airline hostesses and were directed to departure gates on the lower level of the building, where they viewed eye-catching displays and demonstrations from ten countries arranged by the wards and branches. Tempting food, representative of the various countries, was served. 'In Flight' entertainment began at 8:30 in the evening in the cultural hall, where a program written and staged by Rae Rita Graham, Isobel Marker, and Barbara Scowcroft was presented. A fashion show followed, with Germaine d'Evegné and Barbara Scowcroft as commentators. Seventy women modeled their own creations of: hats and dresses for all occasions." 605 AUGUST 1965 Southwest Indian Mission, Crownpoint Branch (New Mexico) Relief Society Front row, left to right: Flora Becenti; Mary Abeita; Alta Ellsworth, First Counselor. Second row, left to right: Olivia Chapman; Ruth Hammer; Mae Roper; Clara Casuse; Francis Bowmen. Back row, left to right: Illene Walder; Janice Thomas, Secretary-Treasurer; Ann Welker, President; Ena Chavez; Phoebe Newhall; Kathryn Yazzie. Elizabeth M. Baird, former Supervisor, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports: "A full Relief Society program is functioning in the newly organized Crownpoint Branch. Bazaars, socials, work meetings, visiting teaching all have their place in Relief Society in this branch. Shown on the loom is a rug similar to that woven by the sisters for their bazaar. A Navajo-speaking sister and an English-speaking sister as visiting teacher companions have much to share and enjoy many unique experiences. Literature, social science, and theology lessons as presented from the manual prepared especially for the Lamanite sisters, are an additional asset to the program." Anne F. Taylor is the new Supervisor of the Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society. Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers of the Branch for the Deaf April 1965 Front row, left to right: Jennie Holton, Secretary-Treasurer; Orba Seeley, First Counselor; Florence Utley, President; Ruth Smith; Berdean Christensen; Jean Nelson. Back row, left to right: Cleo Peterson, Second Counselor; Phyllis Penman; Gloria Barney; Rosa Lee Parkin; Beth Jensen. Pearl G. Williams, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sisters of the Branch for the Deaf Relief Society conduct very inspirational meetings. They are enthusiastic and feel blessed in being able to have a Relief Society organization. Every department in the Relief Society program is conducted by these efficient women. The work meeting is a lovely, friendly day for them. They are very talented in the arts and crafts, and the articles completed for their bazaar each year are beautifully finished. Their bazaars are successful and well attended. The Singing Mothers take part in many of the programs for the Branch for the Deaf. They have taken part in the preliminary exercises of our stake Relief Society leadership meetings. Lucy Greenwood, who is a devoted interpreters for the Branch for the Deaf, sings a vocal solo, and the sisters of the branch interpret in the sign language. French Mission, Paris Branch Relief Society Anniversary Party March 20, 1965 Standing at the buffet table, left to right: Marie Goret; Annette Malaize; Josette Riquelme; Christiane Obitz; Fernande Nevou. Vera P. Hart, Supervisor, French Mission Relief Society, reports: " 'Une soirée trés agréable' typified the comments of over 150 members and investigators who assembled at the Paris Branch to celebrate the 123d anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. Featuring the theme 'Pioneers of the West,' in costume, decoration, and entertainment, the evening began with a short program which included an opening welcome and introduction by Yvonne Arditi, President of the Paris group. Joisane Vilettes followed with an historical sketch, testifying of the founding of the Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842. A short theatrical piece followed in which several sisters portrayed an early day Relief Society meeting. After a buffet of punch and sandwiches, a western square dance by authentically dressed Parisian cowboys and cowgirls began the evening ball. Missionary contacts seemed especially impressed by the Society's social activities, as well as its provision for filling the spiritual and individual needs of the sisters of the Church." 606 AUGUST 1965 Front row, left to right: Lorrj Chandler; Peggy Clements: Pamela Clements: €resa Stosic; Second Tow, left to right: Eunice Pratt: Mary Lee Jones; Blanch Larsen: Verla Hickman, Work Counse'orLola Albaugh, Education Counselor: Fern McClellan, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, Third row, left to right: Nita Palmer: Margaret Thomas: Gertrude Sorenson;: Pring Fantasy,' a lovely fashion show and musical Program, Was Presented Apri] 16th, This Was the culmination of a Sewing Program jn Which Stake instruction Was given in tailoring and basic Standing In the back TOW, at the left: Sylva Luck, Choristerand at the Tight: Wilma Packer, organist. Sister Kocherhang reports: "The Singing Mothers Were outstanding in their Performance, and we were very Proud. E€ Were Pleased with the Presence of Sister Young, She 8ave us much help, and we did ap i It has been our Privilege to furnish music twice this Past year at stake con. Ference. Ninety Sisters Participate at the April Conference » Unice J, Ow; Rose Cal eaux, C unselor: An e Wet, Tesident alerie § » Music directo. Rda L, Supervisor South African Mission Relief Societ > Teports "The South Africa SSion Relie Ociet Made histor rec local Member Was Sustained as the President of the Mission Organization. Accepting the cal] Was Anna M. De Wet of Johannesburg er Counselors are Rose as alread sited m Y of the Tanches, 8iving aid a €ncourag ent to the Sisters, TD South Africa M ©N Covers an area the Size of th Continental] nited Sta e his means that the President yw ll have m miles to Taverse in Visiting the Sisters of the Mission. Th art o quiltin ll be j Oduced ister unice d MOonstrateq O the | aders of Oclety 'the Ow of quilting,' and they a W ready to tak art to th Tanches_" 608 AUGUST 1965 Boise Stake (Idaho) ''Parade of Presidents' at Commemoration of the Organization of Relief Society March 8, 1965 Representing the nine general presidents of Relief Society since its organization, are the ward theology class leaders. Front row, left to right: Margaret Higley as Emma Smith; Mable Nokes as Clarissa S. Williams; Thelma Mitchell as Eliza R. Snow; Barbara Johns as Zina D. H. Young; LaVonne Hawkins as Bathsheba W. Smith; Jane Hipwell as Emmeline B. Wells. Back row, left to right: Betty Roberts as Louise Y. Robison; Carol R. Flake, stake theology class leader; Barbara Browning as Amy Brown Lyman; Glenna Cutler as Belle S. Spafford. LaVon F. Hadley, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "At our March leadership meeting, in commemoration of the anniversary of Relief Society, stake theology leader Carol R. Flake presented these sisters during the reading of a poem 'Parade of Presidents,' written by her mother, the late Irene K. Read. Following the presentation was a brief address 'Our Heritage as Relief Society Sisters,' by President Hadley, and the song 'One Hundred Thousand Strong,' by a stake Singing Mothers group under the direction of stake chorister Julie Atkinson and stake organist Collette Howard." 610 (Text: Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 66 — The Earth and Man Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 88:14-35, 97-104) For First Meeting, November 1965 Objective: To learn of the resurrection of man and of the earth's destiny. INTRODUCTION In the revelation known as the "Olive Leaf," the Lord gave instructions to his servants regarding the Holy Ghost, also known as the Holy Spirit, with the promise of eternal life. (D&C 88:3-4.) From a discussion on the Comforter, the Holy Ghost, given only to the obedient who receive the baptism of water and the Spirit by one having authority, to a consideration of the "light of Christ" given to all men because they are spirit sons and daughters of God, the revelation proceeds to speak "peace" to the hearts of the saints in revealing what man should know about the glories of the eternal worlds following the resurrection. THE SOUL OF MAN The eternal truth is revealed that man had a pre-earth life as a spirit entity. In this second estate, the earth period, man becomes a living soul. (Genesis 2:7.) We learn in Section 88 that "the spirit and the body are the soul of man" (Verse 15). This concept is immediately followed with the truth that both the body and the spirit are to be resurrected. (Verse 16.) It is the soul that will be redeemed; therefore, we should be mindful of how we care for the body, for it is an essential part of man's eternal make-up. (Verse 28.) With this understanding of the value of the body in the eternal plan, man's body becomes precious, but as Elder James E. Talmage said: 61! AUGUST 1965.. Be not afraid of soiling its hands; be not afraid of scars that may come to it if won in earnest effort, or in honest fight, but beware of scars that disfigure, that have come to you in places where you ought not have gone, that have befallen you in unworthy undertakings; beware of the wounds of battle in which you have been fighting on the wrong side (Conference Report, October 1913, page 117). THE EARTH The revelation continues in pointing out that the earth has an eternal destiny as well as does man. It is decreed that the faithful will inherit the earth. (Matt. 5:5.) The inheritance of the earth as an eternal home will come only to those who have lived the law of the celestial kingdom. The earth was created that it would be the habitation of the mortal tabernacles for the spirit sons and daughters of God. (D&C 49:16-17.) But this was not to be the end of the earth's usefulness, for in fulfilling the measure of its creation it would also become a celestial kingdom. (Ibid., 88:18-20.) In order that we may fully understand that our position in the eternal worlds following the resurrection, is to be determined by the law we obey, we are instructed as follows: That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it [the earth] forever and ever; for, for this intent was it made and created, and for this intent are they sanctified. And they who are not sanctified through the law which I have given unto you, even the law of Christ, must inherit another kingdom, even that of a terrestrial kingdom, or that of a telestial kingdom. 612 For he who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory (Verses 20-22). They who cannot abide the terrestrial law must abide a telestial kingdom. There will be some who will be unable to abide the telestial glory. These are the sons of perdition. (Verses 23-24.) Perdition is also known as a kingdom but of "no glory." (Verse 24.) SPIRITUAL BODIES It requires modern revelation to interpret and understand passages in the Bible which have given rise to erroneous doctrines. An example comes from Section 88, where we find the following words: For notwithstanding they die, they also shall rise again, a spiritual body (D&C 88:27).: The term spiritual body is found in the writings of Paul in a discussion of the resurrection. He said that the body is sown a natural body, but it is raised a spiritual body. (I Cor. 15:44.) Because Paul in this same letter said that "flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God" (verse 50), it is believed by some not of our faith that the body is not actually raised from the grave, but that it is the spirit of man that is revived or resurrected. It is true that "flesh and blood" (mortals) cannot inherit the kingdoms assigned resurrected beings. The resurrection of which we shall partake will be the raising of the body as flesh and bones—tangible, material substance. (Philippians 3:20-21; Alma 11:44-45; D&C 129:1-2.) | This body will not contain blood, but, as Joseph Smith said: "All will be raised by the power of God, having spirit in their bodies, and not blood" (DHC IV:555). President Brigham Young declared:... The blood will not be resurrected with the body, being designed only to sustain the life of the present organization. When that is dissolved, and we again obtain our bodies by the power of the resurrection, that which we now call the life of the body, and which is formed from the food we eat and the water we drink will be supplanted by another element (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 ed., page 374). This explains why the scriptures refer to the resurrected body as "a spiritual body" or as Amulek put it, "the whole becoming spiritual and immortal" (Alma 11:45). In this condition man will not be subject to decay or dissolution, but will remain free from disease and the ills of earth life or mortality. (I Cor. 15:52, 2 Nephi 9:13.) "YE SHALL RECEIVE YOUR BODY" The Prophet Joseph Smith was emphatic in maintaining that in the resurrection we do not lose the fundamental parts of the body which were ours in mortality:... There is no fundamental principle belonging to a human system that ever goes into another in this world or in the world to come; I care not what the theories of men are. We have the testimony that God will raise us up, and he has the power to do it. If anyone supposes that any part of our bodies, that is, the fundamental parts thereof, ever goes into another body, he is mistaken (DHC V:339). President John Taylor taught that even though the body may LESSON DEPARTMENT be destroyed or blown to the four winds of heaven, yet the particles out of which the body was created cannot be destroyed because they are eternal. (Journal of Discourses, 18:333.) PERFECT BODIES As resurrected beings we shall have perfect bodies. The disfigurements of the flesh will be removed. A question is sometimes raised as to whether or not there will be a difference in the resurrection between the person who dies in young adulthood and the one who leaves mortality at an advanced age. The scriptures do not speak expressly to this question, but only of the perfected body. (Alma 11:42-45; 40:23; D&C 88:28.) However, President Joseph F. Smith said: In the resurrection of the dead the child that was buried in its infancy will come up in the form of the child that it was when it was laid down; then it will begin to develop. From the day of the resurrection, the body will develop until it reaches the full measure of the status of its spirit, whether it be male or female (Improvement Era, June 1909, page 594). The body will come forth as it is laid to rest, for there is no growth or development in the grave. As it is laid down, so will it arise, and changes to perfection will come by the law of restitution. But the spirit will continue to'expand and develop, and the body after the resurrection will develop to the full stature of man ([bid., June 1904, pp. 623-624). The Prophet Joseph Smith taught: As concerning the resurrection, I will merely say that all men will come from the grave as they lie down, whether old or young; there will not 613 AUGUST 1965 be "added unto their stature one cubit," neither taken from it; all will be raised by the power of God, having spirit in their bodies, and not blood (DHC IV:555). KINGDOMS OF THE RESURRECTION As discussed in earlier lessons, each person will receive the reward which he has earned in the earth life. (Lesson 65, Relief Society Magazine, July 1965; Lesson 58, Relief Society Magazine, August 1964). In summary, we may quote President George Q. Cannon:. -- The Lord has shown to us that there are differences of rewards. Some of his children will attain to what is called celestial glory. Others of his children will not have faith enough nor exercise their agency in the direction to gain that glory; but they will gain terrestrial glory. There are others that will not progress that far; they will feel reluctant to obey the laws that pertain to. The terrestrial, and they will obtain telestial glory. There are still others that will not attain even to the telestial glory. Why is it that there are these differences? Is it because God has chosen some of us for the telestial glory, some of us for the terrestrial glory, and some of us for the celestial glory? No, there is no such predestination as this. We are all born with our free agency; with the power within ourselves, aided by the blessings of God, to attain unto the highest glory. How shall we attain unto the highest glory? There is only one way, and that is by observing the highest laws. The highest laws, when obeyed, bring as a reward the highest glory; and the man or woman who expects to attain to the highest glory without obeying these laws, deceives himself or herself. It cannot be done. If I rise above the telestial glory, I must obey a law that will lift me above that. If I rise to the terrestrial glory, it will be by obeying terrestrial law. If I do not obey laws higher than that, I cannot attain to a higher glory. 614 I want to impress upon you... That our exaltation, our future glory, depends entirely upon our obedience to law. We should not lose sight of this (Conference Report, April 1900, page 54). The foregoing discussion is in harmony. With the "Olive Leaf" revelation where it is also indicated that those who become sons of perdition will be resurrected. And return to that place for which they have prepared themselves by disobedience (D&C 88: 29-32.) It is by obedience to God's law —eternal law—that blessings come and also by disobedience, a loss of one's potential blessing. And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfected and sanctified by the same. That which breaketh a law, and abideth not by law, but seeketh to become a law unto itself, and willeth to abide in sin, and altogether abideth in sin, cannot be sanctified by law, neither by mercy, justice, nor judgment. Therefore, they must remain filthy still (Verses 34-35). THE RESURRECTION, WHEN? The Lord has revealed that every person who has lived upon the earth will receive a resurrection. This means both the "just and unjust" (Acts 24:15; see also Rev. 20:13, I Cor. 15:21-22). By reason of the transgression of Adam, death entered the world, and through the atonement of Jesus Christ, all mankind will be redeemed from this temporal death. There is no exception. (2 Nephi 9:6-7, 12-13; Alma 12: 16-18.) The general scriptural pronouncement is that there is a time for the righteous and a time for the unrighteous to be raised from the grave. (Rev. 20:5, 12-13; D&C 29:22-26.) There will be two general resurrections—the first, which is known as the "just," and the second, which is named the "unjust." A modern revelation, however, teaches us that these general classifications should be separated into two parts each. (D&C 88:97-102.) This revelation states that each of these resurrections, four in number, will be heralded by the sounding of an angel's trump. The first trump is at the Savior's second coming. And they who have slept in their graves shall come forth, for their graves shall be opened; and they also shall be caught up to meet him in the midst of the pillar of heaven— They are Christ's, the first fruits, they who shall descend with him first, and they who are on the earth and in their graves, who are first caught up to meet him; and all this by the voice of the sounding of the trump of the angel of God (D&C 88:97-98). It is recorded in scripture (Matt. 27:51-53 and 3 Nephi 23: 9-10) that many souls arose from the dead at the time of the Savior's resurrection. This, however, did not commence what is known to us as the first resurrection. This is clarified by President Joseph Fielding Smith in the following quotations: While there was a general resurrection of the righteous at the time Christ arose from the dead, it is customary for us to speak of the resurrection of the righteous at the Second Coming of Christ as the first resurrection (Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, page 295). It is the opinion of some that the resurrection is going on all the time LESSON DEPARTMENT now, but this is purely speculation without warrant in the scriptures. It is true that the Lord has power to call forth any person or persons from the dead, as he may desire, especially if they have a mission to perform which would require their resurrection. For example, we have the cases of Peter, James, and Moroni. We are given to understand that the first resurrection yet future, which means the coming forth of the righteous, will take place at one particular time, which is when our Savior shall appear in the clouds of heaven, when he shall return to reign (Ibid., page 299). The second trump is sounded after the resurrection of the saints. The length of time between these two events is not revealed. Jesus' coming marks the beginning of the millennium, therefore, the resurrection of terrestrial beings occurs after the millennium begins: And after this another angel shall sound, which is the second trump; and then cometh the redemption of those who are Christ's at his coming; who have received their part in that prison which is prepared for them, that they might receive the gospel, and be judged according to men in the flesh (D&C 88:99). Thus ends the first general resurrection, except as that resurrection will continue into the millennium until all the worthy or honorable dead have received this blessing. At the end of the thousand years of peace and righteousness, the second general resurrection will begin with telestial beings rising from their graves: And again, another trump shall sound, which is the third trump; and then come the spirits of men who are to be judged, and are found under condemnation; 615 AUGUST 1965 And these are the rest of the dead; and they live not again until the thousand years are ended, neither again, until the end of the earth (Verses 100-101). Without the time _ interval being indicated, the last part of the last, or second resurrection, that of the sons of perdition, is described as follows: And another trump shall sound, which is the fourth trump, saying: There are found among those who are to remain until that great and last day, even the end, who shall remain filthy still (Verse 102). VISIONS OF THE RESURRECTION We have the testimonies of Latter-day prophets concerning the resurrection. These testimonies bring to the saint an awareness, born of the Spirit, that the resurrection is a reality, and that men will come forth from their graves as they were laid down. The Prophet Joseph Smith stated: Would you think it strange if I relate what I have seen in vision in relation to this interesting theme? Those who have died in Jesus Christ may expect to enter into all that fruition of joy when they come forth, which they possessed or anticipated here. So plain was the vision, that I actually saw men, before they had ascended from the tomb, as though they were getting up slowly. They took each other by the hand and said to each other, "My father, my son, my mother, my daughter, my brother, my sister." And when the voice calls for the dead to arise, suppose I am laid by the side of my father, what would be the first joy of my heart? To meet my father, my mother, my brother, my sister; and when they are by my side, I embrace them and they me.... 616 All your losses will be made up to you in the resurrection, provided you continue faithful. By the vision of the Almighty I haye seen it. More painful: to me are the thoughts of annihilation than death. If I have no expectation of seeing my father, mother, brothers, sisters and friends again, my heart would' burst: in-a moment, and I should go down to my grave. The expectation of seeing my friends in the morning of the resurrection cheers my soul and makes me bear up against the evils of life. It is like their taking a long journey, and on their return we meet them with increased joy. God has revealed His Son from the heavens and the doctrine of the resurrection also; and we have a knowledge that those we bury here God will bring up again, clothed upon and quickened by the Spirit of the great God; and what mattereth it whether we lay them down, or we lay down with them when we can keep them no longer? Let these truths sink down in our hearts, that we may even here begin to enjoy that which shall be in full hereafter (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 295-296). As President of the Church, Wilford Woodruff related a vision of the resurrection given to him while laboring as a missionary in the State of Tennessee during the lifetime of Joseph Smith. After laboring in that part (Memphis, Tennessee) for a length of time, I received a letter from Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in which they requested me to stay in that country and take charge of the churches that we had built up there. The Prophet promised me many things, and said I would lose no blessings by tarrying in that country and doing as he wished me, and letting the other brethren go and get their endowments. I was then at the house of Brother Abraham O. Smoot's mother. I received this about sundown. I went into a little room where there was a sofa, to pray alone. I felt full of joy and rejoicing at the promises God had made to me through the Prophet. While I was upon my knees praying, my room was filled with light. I looked and a messenger stood by my side. I arose, and this personage told me he had come to instruct me. He presented before me a panorama. He told me he wanted me to see with my eye and understand with my mind what was coming to pass in the earth before the coming of the Son of Man. He commenced with what the revelations say about the sun being turned to darkness, the moon to blood, and these stars falling from heaven. Those things were all presented to me one after another, as they will be, I suppose, when they are manifest before the coming of the Son of Man. Then he showed me the resurrection of the dead—what is termed the first and second resurrection. In the first resurrection I saw no graves nor anyone raised from the grave. I saw legions of celestial beings, men and women who had received the gospel all clothed in white robes. In the form they were presented to me, they had already been raised from the grave. After this he showed me what LESSON DEPARTMENT is termed the second resurrection. Vast fields of graves were before me, and the Spirit of God rested upon the earth like a shower of gentle rain, and when that fell upon the graves, they were opened, and an immense host of human beings came forth. They were just as diversified in their dress as we are here, or as they were laid down. This personage taught me with regard to these things.... (The Deseret Weekly, Vol. 53, No. 21, November 7, 1896, page 642). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Of what value is it to know that the soul of man consists of both body and spirit? 2. In what way does the earth fulfill the measure of its creation? 3. What reason might we give that the differences of age between the young and the very old will exist at the time of resurrection? 4. What did you learn from the visions of the resurrection received by Joseph Smith and Wilford Woodruff? 5. What personal guidance can Section 88 give us concerning "a better resurrection" (Heb. 11:35)? After-Words Dorothy J. Roberts This then, the parting—her shades drawn, The path grown green across her lawn; The tiny orbit where she moved Now empty; her endurance grooved, Her conquered hills kept, as a test, Before the weakness in my breast; Her constant beauty no more there; The valiant smile she used to wear To mend a fraying, human tie And save its fabric, beyond why, Beyond the filament of speech; All | would give, now past her reach— The shadow lengthening where she stood And kept peace with the neighborhood. 617 Christine H. Ro binson Objective To emphasize the fact that Sincere Prayer jg One of the Most Powerfy| influences in the World, @ No atter how Self. Confident The sc Iptures repe. Edly tes or self-sufficient one yY think tify that we ust "aq >. E is, every person ha need fo -» knock" (Matt. 7:7 We must additional] help and direction beInitiate the Tequest if we €xpect to yond that Whic human Powe Tecelve the Lord's blessings and CaN provide This need can he fulto have the 4ssurance of his guj filled through the Strength and ance and help It is true that the help Which co e fro Ommunion ord, " knows the desires f Ith our ather j €aven oy, hearts before we ask, but he through e t, sincere Prayer. 4s made jt obligatory, and a Sincere Prayer Provides a sus uty tha € shall cal] Upon his taining Strength d Support name" ( MITH, Josep F.: Gos. Which Can come from NO other Del Doctrine, Page 291 Source, [t enriches and Steadies Why does the Lord tell us to life. Jy hope, tranquilit "Pray always, that ye may not peace, Patience, and Courage. J+ aint"? CCording to the diction £lVesg assurance of the Presence of ary, one who faints ig One who ig 4 powerfy] and comforting Friend Wanting jn Courage; lacking in Who js Near and €sirous of 8iving strength; Weak, feeble, and de help Presiden CKay has Said Jected. O Father m heaven "Prayer is th Pulsation of a knows Our we Knesses, Our need yearning, loving heart in tune Or Courage and Strength In fact, With th nfinite, [+ Is q Message in the Scriptures he Teminds yg of the Soul sent directly to a that ithout the Presence of his loving ather. Language is Spirit and his Support, we can do not mer Words but Spirit-vibra nothing, (John 15:5.) Even the tion" ( way, @ppiness Savior confirmed his Constant de. Page 225) Pendence upon his Father. He re. peatedly declared that his mighty works were performed by the power of God's spirit and made it clear that, "I can of mine own self do nothing... [ seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me" (John 5:30). The laws of nature. Many of us have experienced this power in the miracles of healing or in the remarkably comforting effects of consolation that have occurred in crises in our families. At times, through prayer, we have been given strength well beyond the Scope of our human capacities, For example, recently on a dark, cold night on an icy bend in the road, a car skidded and overturned into an embankment below. The lone driver, seriously hurt, instinctively knew she would die if help did not come imLESSON DEPARTM ENT mediately. She received no yresponse to her frantic cries or the sounding of her car's horn. All this time she was praying mightily and, finally, Strength which flowed into her body, she crawled to the road above. Later, in the hospital, the doctor wanted to know who had "Actually, I was Not alone for God was with me and he helped me back up to the road." The doctor replied, "He must have been with you. You could not have climbed onto that road alone. You have a broken back." Through prayer miracles are performed. If we are humble, believing, and prayerful, no matter what the circumstances, we are never actually alone. [f we are deserving, we have the Lord's promise that his Spirit will always be with us. This is why we should "Pray always, that ye may not faint." Suggested cross reference for the mothers in the home to the Family Home Evening Manual: Lesson 4—'Ag Children of Our Heavenly Father, We Have the Right to Pray to Him," page 25. Three-Generation Bible Ora Pate Stewart | touch it now with fondest heart — Loosed pages — ancient leather — That grand old Bo Holding us togeth ok that fell apart er, 619 WORK MEETING Molding A Happy Life (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness. Gw Work—what a stable, strong word it is! And yet it is a word of many meanings. For some it is a therapy, to others a matter of pride or dedication, while still others regard it as drudgery. It is important to cultivate attitudes about work where joy and satisfaction come from work well done. A college student helping in a faculty home for her board and room used to scrub the floor with vehemence whenever things bothered her, and the family came to know it was a time to leave her alone. Scrubbing floors was a therapy for her. Madame Marie Curie, after 487 unsuccessful experiments to isolate radium, said to her husband, "If it takes 100 years, it will be a pity, but I will not cease to work for it as long as I live." Her work was one of dedication. A wonderful Swiss immigrant, 620 Winnifred C. Jardine The Happiness That Comes From Work For Second Meeting, November 1965 well along in her seventies, who did ironing for several families, answered when complimented on her work, "Why not? It is my profession!" To her, work was a matter of pride. A little child when asked his idea of work answered, "Anything I have to do is work, but anything I want to do is play." To this little soul at this age work seemed to be a drudgery. Work should be a joy and a labor of love. It should bring with it a sense of accomplishment, of doing a job well, of achieving success. The by-products are a hearty appetite, a good night's sleep, and complete enjoyment of a time of relaxation. To paraphrase Ecclesiastes, "There is a time for work and a time for play" (see Ecc. 3:1-8) and getting each in its proper order contributes greatly to one's happiness. J. Edgar Hoover has expressed the feeling that one of the great problems in this ry, both with young people and with their parents, is in getting these two mixed up. Youth wants do the work latto buy now and work to pay for it later. Both situations lead to unhappiness. We have to ing most of it early in the day. After that, any work left seems to go slowly or perhaps is never done at all. For the greatest happiness, work has to be done first, the pleasure follows. Besides learning to work at the proper time, it is necessary also to learn to work the proper way, using the most efficient methods and the right tools. All homemakers have worked out their special ways of doing things, based upon experience. Yet they should be open to new shortcuts and recommendations, trying them out, then making 4 notation of them if they are superior. - cheating their children if they do not set an example of happiness in work, and if they do not include their children in all their happy work experiences. It is easiest to teach children when they LESSON DEP ARTMENT are very little, letting them be 4 part of the work chores and having fun in the doing. But no matter the age of the children, it is a thing to strive for and accompIt is imperative that a child be 7 teaching process needs to be as thoughtful as that carried on in the formal classroom, consistently and patiently, firmly and lovingly. Here are four steps that may be followed: (1) Define the job and explain ex" y what ls expected. (2) Work along adults and young people, is not having these four steps satisfied. Since the days of Commandments, when the Lord, "Six 621 - What j the mot er in Providin establishing health p bility of & for and Tactices in SUCCessfy] J; Calls for bal Cc and play, and of the Worth and Ignity in Work? 3. €3e questions a lated, alt s Perficially they May seem unlike. W; sound ithout 800d To discusg these questions fy » an briefly; to versimplify. How- €ver, this lesson will make som © the Latt -day § ealth ne either Work or recreation SUgestions hich ot enjoy fully go far a a y be usefy] heritances of people differ widely, yet everyone has the obligation to achieve and maintain the best possible health, by complying with the laws of health. It is the mother who usually assumes the responsibility of seeing that periodic check-ups are made by dentist and physician; that teeth are given adequate personal care, and that immunity to disease is achieved through proper innoculations. It is the mother who is chiefly responsible for a wholesome, wellbalanced diet for family members. She knows that proper rest and sleep are also necessary. In the Doctrine and Covenants we find this counsel: "... Retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated" (D&C 88:124). With appointments at the dentist and doctor, and with school teachers' and mother's reminders about health, is there danger that a child may become overly concerned and apprehensive regarding his own health? Do you think that an overly apprehensive, health-conscious mother is likely to motivate such an attitude? What is the difference between the following statements by two children, age seven, who are offered apples from an orchard? Ist child: "I guess I'd better wash it first. At our house we always do." 2nd child: "I guess I shouldn't take it. I bet there're lots of bad germs on tae? It is the opinion of some mothers that if sound health practices relative to food, rest, recreation, and periodic medical examinations, become matter-of-fact rouLESSON DEPARTMENT tine practices, children will acquire a natural regard for health without becoming personally apprehensive concerning their own health. A MOTHER MAY WONDER The need to work, the ability to work, and the results of work are among the great blessings of life. Teaching this truth to children, however, is not easy, as a mother well knows. It is a responsibility she can delegate neither to the school nor to the Church. The home, with its innumerable household tasks, and tasks around a house or farm, is an excellent laboratory for teaching small children the value of work, and to accept work assignments. In the home the child first senses the joy of achievement—putting a button into a buttonhole, holding the dustpan as mother sweeps, and placing his folded pajamas in their proper place. Often, however, something seems to happen between these early, helpful efforts and the teenage indolence. What is it? A mother often may wonder what has happened to the boy, who at age six voluntarily struggled to bring in the trash can, and the boy of thirteen who must be reminded over and over again _ that the garbage can should be brought inside. She may wonder what has happened to the eager five-year-old daughter who stood upon a chair coaxing to help mama wash the dishes, and the girl of thirteen who says with emphasis, "I do hope that in heaven there are no dishes to wash." 623 AUGUST 1965 LEVEL OF KNOWING VERSUS LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE It was stated in lesson 3, where the gap between knowledge and performance was discussed briefly, that this subject would be reconsidered in a later lesson. It is in the area of teaching children to assume work responsibilities, particularly, that this gap may be noted. Mothers may become quite impatient when children fail to do simple tasks which they — know they should do; when they ask, "Why do I have to work? Why make the beds every day? Why not once a week?" Discuss frankly with the children the necessity of an orderly home. Explain that there is too much work for one or two people to do; that the home is their home and that all should share in its work and its play. Each family member shares in the benefits of the home, each should share in its enjoyment. DRIVING FORCES VERSUS RESTRAINING FORCES It has been said that, in general, we do the things we most want to do. What we most want to do may involve several factors. There may be tangible, concrete rewards, or there may be mental or emotional satisfactions which incline us to a particular choice or course of action. These may be spoken of as positive motivations or driving forces. On the other hand, there are restraining forces which tend to keep us from positive action. Knowing this, the mother will search to find out what the restraining forces are which keep her children from performing as 624 well "as they know." Consider the following illustrations: Daughter: "I ought to go to meeting tonight, but I don't want to. I don't feel like it." Give at least two reasons why the daughter may not "feel like going." (Suggestions: She may not feel well physically, or she may fzel socially unhappy, even inadequate.) Suggest others. Mother: (Unhappily) "Son, just look at your room! Why don't you put things where they belong, and be more tidy?" Son: (Who really doesn't mean what he is saying) "I like my room this way. I can see everything I own, right from the door." Could this boy be telling his mother something like this? "T know my room should be cleaned up and neat, but I don't want to put forth the effort to make it so. There are other things I'd rather be doing." Whatever these "other things" may be, they apparently present to his mind greater satisfactions than cleaning up his room. What motivating forces might lead this boy to positive action in tidying up his room? (The satisfaction of fulfilling delegated responsibility; the satisfaction of order and neatness; the satisfaction of pleasing his mother. Can you name others?) "Many hands make light work" is an old maxim, familiar to all of us. It has special meaning for the family where regular work and special interest or hobby projects involve several or all family members. This cooperative effort makes for family solidarity and children often say, "It's more fun' doing things together." ATTITUDE IS IMPORTANT The mother who says, "My children are lazy. They don't do anything around the house," may be somewhat unfair to her children. Is it possible that the mother, herself, considers housework distasteful and transfers her attitude to her children? Is it possible that her children are not motivated to see satisfactions which outweigh the effort involved in doing the tasks? Do mothers sometimes negatively emphasize assigned duties so that a particular task seems unpleasant? Contrast the following attitudes of approach to a task: lst mother: "I know, Alice, how you hate to iron, but this ironing must be done." 2d mother: "You do a good ironing job, Alice, and we all appreciate your helping us to look our best—I especially." Mothers who are endeavoring to reduce the gap _ between knowing and doing, might ask themselves such questions as the following: 1. Do I "nag" or do I motivate my children to work? 2. Do I delegate responsibility kindly but firmly, expecting it to be carried out, or do my repeated reminders irritate my child so that he builds up resentment toward the task? 3. If the attitude of the mother is an important motivating force, may not the mother who does all she can cheerully do (even though she leaves some details 'undone) be more wise than the mother who wearily and complainingly accomplishes more? 4. Should "play" be a reward for work done, or a separate activity with merits of its own? LESSON DEPARTMENT GUIDED SUGGESTIONS TO YOUTH The attitudes of "getting something for nothing' and of getting by with as little work as possible, are demoralizing factors in contemporary life. We are realizing the fact that even many of our youth are assuming this attitude. In an attempt to help young people prepare themselves for responsibility in the world's work and to lessen idleness, civic groups in many cities are helping youth to find summer employment. They need the cooperation of parents in this worthwhile project. In the following examples, note the difference in attitude in two mothers. Ist boy: (age sixteen) "School's out! Boy, am I going to rest up now, do nothing but fun things all summer!" lst mother: "I hope you do. No early rising, no school books. You really should have an easy summer." 2d boy: "Hurray, school's out! Nothing to do until September." 2d mother: "You'll welcome a change, I know, son. Your father is going to speak to you about a job opportunity he thinks you'll find really challenging. He thinks you have ability in mechanical lines. You can use the money you'll get to buy things you'll be wanting next September." 2d boy: "Good. I'd like that." Can we expect youth suddenly to become industrious if they have not been trained to accept and carry out some work assignments? THE DIGNITY OF WORK At some time, either at appropriate though unscheduled teaching moments, or on planned and scheduled occasions, children should be given training and counsel on the value and dignity 625 AUGUST 1965 of work. They also should be taught to take pride in work well done and should receive encouragement and commendation when they carry out their share of home duties. They likely will respond favorably to a discussion of that important commandment given to our first parents: "multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it" (Genesis 1:28). In order to subdue the earth, man must put forth both mental and physical effort. He must work in order to bring harvests from the soil and to supply the innumerable comforts we enjoy. Children may be taught that order is evident in the universe and that there should be order in their lives and homes. It requires work to have order in our homes and in our lives. If discussed in an enthusiastic manner, children will thrill to the idea of becoming a part of the work force of the world—the men and women who invent and originate, who build bridges, houses, railroads, airplanes; men and women who teach, who discover, who perform in cultural arts; mothers who cook delicious foods, who sew attractive clothes, and who love and care for children. Who would want to be idle —to be on the outside of all this exciting challenge! IDLENESS NOT APPROVED OF THE LORD Our Heavenly Father does not approve of idleness, and much divine counsel regarding labor has been given to man _ since Adam and Eve began their labors beyond the gates of Eden. In the Doctrine and Covenants 68:31-32 we read: "Now, I, the Lord, am 626 not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness.... These things ought not to be." And again, in Section 88 are the words: "Cease to be idle." To teach children that work is necessary and that the Lord does not approve of idleness; to help them to know the joy of accomplishment; to help them feel that in all constructive, useful work there is dignity; to help them to see that both mental and manual labor not only are the means of earning a livelihood, but that they also bring satisfactions which are the very essence of happiness, are parental challenges which require much understanding, love, and infinite patience. SO BRIEF THE YEARS! Childhood years are so precious, so important, but so brief! Is there not some danger in this day of programs and schedules, of hourly racing from activity to activity, that children may be pressed into adulthood, prematurely? May not this be true especially of "city children''? We must not confuse idleness with unscheduled moments of learning, and experience, nor rob children of their right to dream, to discover, quietly, some of the mysteries of a magic world. Today, there is more pavement but there are fewer meadows, more houses, but fewer trees to climb, fewer. Streams to wade. Perhaps we need more mothers who, sensing today's regimentation, will try to preserve the essential needs of a "child's world'; mothers who will seek to compensate or these losses }, ation avai] ble to embers of th oughtfy] substitution Such a Church > also, wil] mother we might Say to her very want t Courag their childr n young children "S S€ we go to take ady tage of creaadventuring down the Street, this tional ACtivities Offered the youth eautiful Spring day. We Could of the Church, Count the Colors of flowers in The Latter-day Saint mother bloom and see the different Will make the home Inviting for Ouses—some () €m tall, like €r children €ir frien Te€S; some of them low nd long, The €nefits h Ntertain With wide Window ere may m nt are Parents d not be any rea] butterflies, but, children Te broug Ito closer who know e See a really relationsh P; children learn to b Ive yr, » Upon Somebody', More frie dly; Y acquire delawn!"? Slrable Socia] tiquett ents May lea € about the ind; "IF THOU ART MERRY" Viduals ith M their children Important as work is, we also are ASSOciatin n a - y; to Te-create our. Hildren Will reca]] fondly th Selves throy h joytyl diversion family tings, mmer pic € need to | ugh € need to Nics: the Will no °0n forget sing. "Tr thou art Merry, praise pleas venings in the homes the Lord Singing, with with amily m €Ts or friend Music, with dancing, and with a Playin bames, liste ng to con Prayer of Praise and hanksgiyversatio » Popping corn, Ing" (De 136: 28) in an SeIving refreg occacient Scripture wo Tead these sions, enjoyable in the Present, Words: « every thing there is 4 a, be che din rem Tance Season, 4 ime to every pur ae th is ars, by children Pose under the heave and' parents g k tim Weep, and a time ¢ OR Discussion augh; a time to nN, and a ime dance" (Ecc esiastes Questions Ppearing j; the lesson 3:1 4) an Intrody Into th SCussion 3 he Prophet Seph Smith FOR HOME Doing and Preside righ oung (Chita home) Ch k health Q lldr n In Ome ec ea at a reed ES lesome ae Practices your home S Tengthen, areas yoy think ne d © emphasis leaders Considered d cing and PPraise work habits of € chil € thea as sinful ang of the ren; your own also. Try Change of evil, T al La h ater was fate Mm enlistin won of chi ren Carry ou lgn Opened Performanceg fifteen ments. Tabulate results for future use Years afte the pio €ers cq € Into and to « Te, if called > With € val] Cu tural] halls adjaelief Societ Class cent to ] in ne rly every are th your hild, sTandch Id or child jin neighbor Od or ho Pital, meeting Ouse nthe hurch some "delight" of your childhood. Evidence nterest of present As yourself, "Are my own Activities urch lead TS In mak NE recre-. Purposefy]>» 627 SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home STE 2 eee Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 11 — Learning to Choose Wisely For Third Meeting, November 1965 Objective: To point out the mother's role in teaching INTRODUCTION Man has always needed to make choices between certain alternatives of thought and of action. The right to choose is his inherent right and is basic to the Father's plan for the development of his children; yet, never in the history of the world has the need to be selective been more important; never before have there been more detailed choices to make. From morning light to midnight, people of many nations are bombarded with suggestions and ideas, some of them good, some of them bad. Many of the suggestions and ideas come through the mass media of commercial advertising, books, newspapers,. Magazines, radio, TV, and the movies (cinema). These ideas involve all areas of today's living. This lesson will discuss, briefly, some ideas which concern the expenditure of money and of time, especially as they apply to children and to youth. EARLY LEARNING In this day of extensive commercial enterprise, a child learns at a very early age that there is such a thing as money. He sees money in his home; he may accompany his mother to the food market or the department store 628 children to make wise choices. Where he witnesses the exchange of money for desired commodities. He soon learns other monetary facts — that mother may be given back some of the money and that coins are not all alike in size. Visualize a mother, with a hungry child of three and onehalf years, who is shopping in a fruit market. How will she meet the situation if her child takes a banana from the fruit case and eats most of it before the mother notices? If you were the mother, what would you say and do in this case? Is this child too young to be given guidance on taking something and as to the use of money? Her son, age five, may want to purchase quantities of candy or similar items. The mother may comment firmly: 'One will be enough, son, we must spend most of our grocery money for foods that will help us to grow and to keep well." Is this an appropriate reply? Might this occasion be an early step in making wise choices? A child of six years may coax to take home an expensive toy from a department store. How is the child likely to react to the following comment by the mother? Mother "We don't buy toys just because we would like to have them. to spend. This one Costs about the Same as th Boy: "Bobby Paid fifty Cents to the bishop, this Morning, for his tithing. © I have to pay tithing on the Money [| earned, and have been Saving to buy things With?" Such an °pportunity on: 1. Why We spend Money (because Wwe want that for Which the money is Spent). Wise use of money (getting full and Worthwhile Value from the Money). 3. Why we Day tithing, Variations Ithe-paying questions are familiar A te to pay on my baby-sitting Money? [i i much, Why don't J Wait until] [ €arn more?" Suppose the mother replies: "No, it isn't very much. | think jit is al] Tight for you to wait until yoy are older." Do yoy think 4 Matter of Choice jg Involved im this ques. Tion? Mi ht we Say that the "Pp her hush nd to train chil ren to understand h Meanin of these Words and Y Motivate concrete application f them, il, Helping young family members as they allocate i ances or earnings, 3. Counseling young sons who are attracted to ©xXPensive, though times Worthless &adgets, and to toys Which are too Costly for the family's financial circumstances, AUGUST 1965 (short term); Church missions; selecting a vocation. In all of these areas the matter of money is an important factor, There are many alluring enticements which involve the spending of money for children of all ages. Children need the counsel of wise parents from an early age so that they will be reasonable in their requests for money; will not squander their own prized earnings; may acquire sound spending practices which will be useful to them throughout life. VALUE OF EXPERIENCE We must not overlook, moreover, the value of an experience which may result from an unwise choice. Example: A son, age nineteen, who purchases, with his Own money, a used car which turns out to be a financial burden as well as a poor buy. How may the parents of this son help him to gain value from this experience, without losing faith in his own decisions? His ability to make an individual choice? DIVINE ADMONITION Latter-day Saints are encouraged to work, to be thrifty, and to spend wisely. They are encouraged to seek for a wise balance in their spending for spiritual and for temporal needs, and for luxuries. The mother will remain aware of the wisdom found in the divine admonition: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for 630 yourselves treasures in heaven.... For where your treasure is, there will] your heart be also (Matthew 6: 19-21). As part of her responsibility to teach the gospel in the home, the mother herself wil] heed this divine counsel, and will help her children to know what the treasures are that are laid up in heaven and to seek them. A mother will train her children to follow the words of Benjamin: - -. I would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants (Mosiah 4:26). WHAT SHALL I BUY WITH MY TIME? This question is of continuing concern for both children and adults and, only gradually, do we learn where true wisdom lies. As we plan on receiving full value for the money we spend, so, also, should we aim to receive full value for our time, even our leisure time. When we are young, time appears to be an indefinite, limitless commodity. It seems to stretch before us as a_neverending plain. Days, weeks, months, years—time for everything! We sometimes hear youth say, "Oh, I have time to burn." As we grow older, the days slip by, weeks shorten, years— where do they go? All of our activities relate to the use of time, and, since our earth-time is limited, we increasingly need to choose wisely how we will use time. We need to decide what values we hope to get in return. What are some of the specific values we may expect to get from the wise expenditure of our time? (Suggestion: Wisdom, development of specific skills, mental and emotional satisfaction, financial compensation. ) IMPORTANT CHOICES TV viewing is an area where time and value received are important factors, and where mothers may help children to become selective. There are many beautiful, stimulating, educational, and wholesomely entertaining television shows, and there are also unwholesome, undesirable shows where violence and dishonor are even made attractive. How may the mother guard her children and her home from the undesirable influence of undesirable viewing? How may she help her children see that the values received from TV shows differ widely? What desirable values may be received? Name four values which might be '"Jearned" from undesirable shows. SELECTIVE READING If we believe, as Thomas Jefferson so firmly did, in the power of the printed word to move men to good action, we must also believe in the power of the printed word to move men to evil action. People do not, of course, put into action all they think about, but it may be said that those things we intentionally do, we have thought about, at least briefly. Never in the history of the world has so much reading material been available. Every LESSON DEPARTMENT area of human interest, from outer space to the caverns of the sea, has been explored, to some extent, and recorded upon the printed page. And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D&C 88:118). Even in the area of children's literature, available books are innumerable. There are books on every subject of interest and need for the growing child—mediocre books, good books, and excellent books which are wisely written and skilfully illustrated. Unfortunately there are men who are willing to exploit the innocence of youth for money. Millions of dollars are spent annually in the business of producing and marketing undesirable, even pornographic written material. It is sold upon stands and is sent through the mails, often to juvenile readers who may bear the scar of this influence throughout life. "What is not good for us is wrong," are the words of Dorothy Lewis, chairman of the American Mothers Committee who, among many others, is alerting young mothers to this great modem evil. Do you believe something can be done about this situation? How may the mother help her children develop a taste for good and profitable reading material? How can she help her children see that reading mediocre Or undesirable reading material squanders precious time, invites degrading thoughts into the mind, and also may lessen one's 631 AUGUST 1965 ability to recognize and choose the good? Children read what is available. Is there suitable reading material in your home at present? Libraries are only effort away. Bookmobiles_ will bring books right to one's neighborhood in some areas. Today is the day of the book —the good, enlightening book, the scientific book, the travel book, the human study book, the book of eternal truths which will inform the mind and strengthen the faith of the believer and may bring faith to the unbeliever. These are questions for the Latter-day Saint mother: Do you ever read to them? Are reading? Do you ever read to them? Could selective reading be a subject for a family discussion? The accumulated knowledge of the world is available to those who seek; to those who are willing to substitute for trash "wisdom out of the best books." FOR DISCUSSION Questions appearing in the lesson. Make as full use of them as possible. FOR HOME DOING 1. Listen, and watch for opportunity subtly to counsel small children on money spending, and allocating money for useful projects. 2. Watch for opportunity with older children to give counsel on general money spending practices as you consider it wise to do so. 3. View one or two TV shows as a family. Discuss the shows afterward, noting the reaction of family members. 4. If your children do not have library cards, suggest that each child obtain one, and encourage their wise use. 5. (Adults only in the home) Appraise your reading habits. Appraise your television viewing as to time consumed and value of program. Are you selective in your viewing? Till Love Comes Home Rae Woolley Whited Yet a little while till roses bloom, Till buds burst forth on tree and bough That each may keep its yearly vow. Yet a little while till youngsters play All tanned by sun. Till life seems easy once again, And there is time to make a friend. Yet a little while till love comes home — After the loneliness — Then winter's grief is gone away And life begins a bright, new day. 632 LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values. As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 10—Good Versus Evil—Part II (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 246-280, 329-360) For Fourth Meeting, November 1965 Objective: To show that problems of good and evil involve @ In this age of aggressive individuality how often do we hear the assertion "It's my own life to live." But should this be accepted as justification for rejecting the obligations of society? It shouldn't take much reflection on our part to help us see that, whether we like it or not, interdependence is a fact. Yet in a profound sense we all do have a very individual life to lead. This is not the life of the rebel, the abdicator of responsibility. Quite the contrary. The life we must live alone is the life of our choices. God has given to each of his children the right and necessity of choice. We may come from a poor environment; we may lack education; but, as The Book of Mormon makes clear, we can all desire to be better. In that desire is an affirmative choice. The selections of literature which we will consider this month all share a focus on personal choice, and the results of such choice. Problems of personal choice. THE HAPPY PRINCE In "The Happy Prince," by Oscar Wilde, we see how one good choice makes possible another, until a whole life is changed. This is a deliberate and deceptively simple account of the linked force of small choices. The empty-headed swallow is easily deceived, a bit vain, but essentially good-hearted. His first positive choice, to stay with the Prince overnight, stems only from his feeling mildly sorry for the Prince who is no longer happy. The swallow is only delaying his flight to the sensuous. Delights of Egypt. After his first proper choice results in a focus to his life that he didn't have before, he feels good—but hardly sees the significance of his action. He is still vain, and his thoughts turn easily to the personal indulgences which have set the tenor of his life up to now. The swallow finds it easier to make his second right choice— staying the second night—but he 633 AUGUST 1965 is really moved for the first time when he sees the willingness with which the Prince sacrifices one of his jewelled eyes. After staying to help for one more night, the swallow suddenly realizes that he can't leave. The seemingly insignificant choices have become commitment. The evil of the world has not been solved by the swallow's choices and the Prince's sacrifices, but they have achieved individual salvation—which is all the triumph any person can have over evil. The form of "The Happy Prince" does little to reinforce its message. Perhaps all that can be said is that the simplicity of its form supports the simplicity of its solution. THE HOUND OF HEAVEN In turning next to "The Hound of Heaven," by Francis Thompson (1858-1907), we go from the artless to the intricate. It "is one of the great short religious poems of the English language. It is not only vivid in imagery and lavish in music but also rich in thought... And meaning" (Text, page 348). I fled Him, down the nights and down the days; I fled Him, down the arches of the years; I fled Him, down the labyrinthine ways Of my own mind; and in the mist of tears I hid from Him, and under running laughter. Up vistaed hopes I sped; And shot, precipitated, Adown Titantic glooms of chasmed fears, From those strong Feet that followed, followed after. But with unhurrying chase, And unperturbed pace, 634 Deliberate speed, majestic instancy, They beat—and a Voice beat More instant than the Feet— "All things betray thee, who betrayest Me." In reading the poem one should first of all understand that Thompson intends no blasphemy or heresy with the term "Hound of Heaven," referring to Christ. The phrase comes from Shelley's Prometheus Unbound, in which Shelley refers admiringly to Christ as "heaven's winged hound." Thompson uses the phrase in the sense of an analogy. As the hound pursues the rabbit, ever drawing closer in the chase, so does Christ in His love pursue the sinning mortal who in his rebellion would escape the influence of Christ (Text, page 348). It takes a total approach to get the full effect of "The Hound of Heaven," and it helps a great deal to know something about its author Francis Thompson as we read this famous poem. In addition to the material in our text, it helps to know that his genius as a poet was early recognized. His poverty, his apparent determination '"'to lead his own life" were deliberate. He was less a victim of circumstance than he was of his own choices. Better than most men he understood that we are not always driven; we flee. The tragedy of this poem is not that we choose degrading things, but that we try to substitute the part for the All-Good. The form in which Thompson presents his message is most effective. Note how the phrasing of the poem twists and turns in an effort to escape. The lines stop and start, rush headlong and then pull up short. The rhyme scheme suggests an attempt to order a life—to bring it into balance—but the off-rhymes and near-rhymes try to help us see how impossible it is to harmonize a life that is not in touch with God. The essential iambic beat (an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed one) is varied as the sinner pauses, breaks into a run, then comes back to his original pace. While the climax of the poem is in line 111, "Naked I wait Thy love's uplifted stroke!" the key to the poem is Christ's insistence that each sinner must "Rise, clasp My hand, and come!" Only as we choose the right can we take advantage of the full love of God. Once more we triumph over the lesser by selecting the better. THE INVISIBLE COLLECTION As suggested in the text, "The Invisible Collection," by Stefan Zweig (1881-1942), adds a dimension to the problem of good versus evil that goes beyond the simple choices of "The Happy Prince," and the subtle choices of "The Hound of Heaven." In both these cases the commitments which then result seem unquestioningly right. The conclusion of 'The Invisible Collection" is not nearly so easy. The teller of the story—and participant in the deception—is both reverent and ashamed as he leaves the house of the blind collector who assumes that the facsimiles he leafs are his precious prints. The basic problem here seems to be discriminating between evils. In some cases, greater or lesser wrongs seem so clearly in contrast that we have little difficulty in choosing, but what about the situations in which probable results are difficult to distinLESSON DEPARTMENT guish? Consider again the story we are discussing. The reasons for selling the collection appear overwhelmingly justifiable. As the distraught daughter truly comments, "human lives... Are surely more important than printed sheets."'- Why then the shame at the end? The author of this moving little story is not going to let us go without reflection on what it means to go against principle. Principle can never be violated with impunity. A choice in which either alternative is in some degree evil disturbs the balance of trust by which men and civilizations live. As someone has suggested, the real terror of lying is not that no one will trust us but that we cannot trust ourselves nor anyone else. If we choose to lie under certain conditions, what is there to stop others from doing the same? The daughter and mother suggest that the blind father "knows nothing of our material difficulties." It is sobering to realize that in choosing not to tell him, perhaps in love and surely in concern, they make the lying inevitable. Is the father's "happiness" bought at too great a price? Indulgence of those we love may be a subtle form of selflove. How easy it is for us to defend our actions in terms of what we think we are doing for others. As Paul reminds us in his Epistle to the Romans, only as we truly love our neighbors as ourselves do we fulfill or complete the law which states that we should not bear false witness. Decisions may have to be made which set one evil above another, but perhaps they are not so common as we would like to 635 AUGUST 1965 think they are. A lie is not usually the beginning of wrong choices, but it is the inevitable fruit of them. A CHRISTMAS CAROL "A Christmas Carol," by Charles Dickens (1812-1870), needs no explanation for its message is clear. It is a simple story in which fantasy comes to the aid of reality in letting us see what ought to be. Past, present, and future unite in one who can repent. Yet even the fantasy does not blur the primary force of individual choice in all change. AFTER CHRISTMAS Note the matter-of-fact conversational language of the poem "After Christmas," by W. H. Auden (1907- ). How easy it is to follow a comfortable pattern; how difficult it is to move from the rut. Even habitual good becomes suspect because it does not require very much commitment on our part. This poem, finally, goes far beyond its implied Christmas setting. (See text, page 275.) WHITE CHRISTMAS "White Christmas," by W. R. Rodgers (1909- ), documents one shabby way in which we can avoid facing our problems. We can play at life, pretend that things are better than they are. As the snow covers and equalizes everything, good and bad, so we at Christmas, find it easy to spread a blanket of hypocritical good will over the land. The spurious world we thus create is not an ideal which might at least set us goals. It is a justification for our greed. We are not, for one 636 wonderful moment, trying to live above ourselves; we are merely pretending, accepting appearance for reality. The real commentary upon our falsity arrives with the day after Christmas when we return to our actual lives without remorse, no more changed by our Christmas experience than we are by any other make-believe. If "White Christmas" verges on the bitter, it lacks the rancor of "Karma," by Edward Arlington Robinson (Text, page 280). KARMA The title of this poem is taken from a concept found in Buddhism and Hinduism which suggests that your destiny is determined by the sum of your acts, that is, you will receive in another state of existence, exactly what you have chosen to receive, as demonstrated by your deeds in this life. It is a shock to realize that Robinson has chosen to use a conventional sonnet to make his point, for in the sonnet the first eight lines usually present a problem which is resolved in the last six. Note the nature of the resolution here. The faint twinge of conscience which has pricked the subject of the poem after he has ruined a friend in a business transaction is resolved by giving "a dime for Jesus who had died for man." Of all the material we have covered in this section none is so bluntly condemnatory. By continuing effort, man has succeeded in degrading himself so totally that the ''fullness of his heart" adds up to no more than a dime. Perhaps Robinson is suggesting that the most pervasive compromise of our time is a belief that anything can be solved by money. If we choose to believe this, nothing but money finally matters. After a while even the amount doesn't matter so long as money is involved. 'Note to Class Leaders: Since there is no literature lesson for December in 1965 we have included several pieces appropriate to the Christmas season in the November lesson. The extent to which they are used will depend on each class leader, but there should be no difficulty in considering them in terms of our November emphasis on choice. Questions for Discussion 1. If succeeding right choices do reinforce one another, as we see in "The Happy Prince," is there any problem in making right choices out of habit? 2. How responsible do you think the daughter and mother in "The Invisible Collection" are to let the father know of their financial plight? In not doing so, do they choose to lie? 3. Of all those we have met in this lesson, who has failed most completely to discern between good and evil? Lyric of Happiness Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Oh, bright is the world And blue is the sky And even the wind Goes dancing by. The air is so full Of sunlight and song That this is a day To cherish long. With joy in my heart, My beloved here, And a day like this— Oh, heaven is near! HAWAIIAN TOURS July 31, 1965 October, November 1965 WORLD'S FAIR and L. D. S. PAGEANT TOURS 16 day tour July 17—Aug. 7 22 day tour July 24—Aug. 14 Two 29 day tours July ll—Aug. 8 and July 24—Aug. 21 AUTUMN TOURS TO EUROPE Leaves September 3, 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88, 89, 90 (Eight Lectures) by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.50 Available end of June from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 Write for Extension Publications Catalog listing talks given at BYU by General Authorities @ \s your family grown OF mostly grown! @ Do you want to become @ technically competent, contributing member of society? @ Would you be proud to serve as 4 regi an Associate of Arts degree? @ Are youin need of dignified, remunerative employment? Stered nurse with Through the, Continuing Education p. Y. U.- Salt Lake Center fo offer a two year associate degree career in FOR MATURE WOMEN WH FOR COMPLETE CENTER 200 wars Salt Lake City Utah WRITE OR PHONE..- FIRST CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR Abide with M leaving August 8th Come Ye Blessed of My Father ------; Eternal Vife ceo 25 Incline Your a 25 eatiegts ber 4th Lord Is MY Shepherd—Ryg Foe.20 Prayer for Our Country sr 25 ROSE PARADE TOURS December CIs Va Y) Music Co | 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 93401 Orders shipped the same day as We receive. Catalogs supplied. Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue salt Lake City. Utah 84103 Phones: 3963-5229 — 359-8051 638 INFORMATION PASSION PLAY TOUR leaving August 22nd LABOR DAY TOUR September 4-5-6 NEW ENGLAND, CANADIAN FALL TOUR eaving Septem er At HAWAIIAN ALOHA TOUR October FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION Come Ye Blessed—Scott one eeaa 25 Create in Me Clean Heart ------.25 creat Not Seen mm 25 God of All Nature onc 25 Lord Bless Thee and Keep Thee ----.20 Lord, God of Our Fathers ------077 25 Lord's Prayer—Robertson et 25 Peace | Leave with You 7 20 Voice in the Wilderness.25 Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES OCTOBER 7th Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. You are assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. MURDOCK | Address................. TRAVEL Kee Shank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah Reet evreceses eee eesenseseseneseTeseseeeeEeseostuvevEVETeDeeE MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF THE HOLY LAND. Pemaeeseeeeeesesenetaecene TERS. «naaSfatel......................... 02ID.... Bee Ra, SSPE BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... 90 Hone 3..........60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5... 80 Ews PRESS 639 99 Mrs. Annie Erickson Benson Manti, Utah 98 Mrs. Sarah Francis Hendon Warren, Arkansas 94 Mrs. Nellie Croshaw Gamble Swan Lake, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anne Kerstina Nielson Busk Elsinore, Utah 97 Mrs. Annie Olson Larsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriett L. Bronson Woodland M Sarah Brakett F. Elliott Ogden, Utah rs. Sara rake oss io Mrs. Mary Flint House Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Anna A. Jeppsen Neilsen Mrs. Susanna Allen. 4 95 Mrs. Annie Kennedy Corliss Mrs. Kate Hermia Jones Isbell gg hs. Rachel Fowler Peterson Washington, D. C. Ogden, Utah Catherine B. Bowles What have | sent to the garden of God While | plant flowers in the earthly sod? Beautiful lilies, pure and white, Thoughtful pansies with faces bright; The modest violet, quiet, serene, When wisdom and faithfulness are seen. Roses of beauty in a mirrored place, Reflecting loveliness and grace. Precious tributes of tender care Sent to the garden to bloom up there, With gentle assurance they will grow From deeds of faithfulness here below. 640 8 Portsmouth, Ohio Magrath, Alberta, Canada 9? Salt Lake City, Utah | Brigham City, Utah 90 call i sd Decker Timely Books From Three Great LDS Authors 1 A Rational Theology by John A. Widtsoe A 'Ration! A leading L. D. S. Theologian and scholar of a Theo ORY former generation explores such timely topics as tom "The Equality of Man,' 'The United Order and / \ Tithing," ''The Brotherhood of Man,"' and many other fundamental principles that harmonize with the knowledge and reason of man. $2.50 2 The Gospel and Man's Relationship to Deity by B. H. Roberts The author of several LDS best sellers penned this volume originally in 1888 while serving as a missionary in England. It was written for youth at the instigation of the general superintendency of the Mutual Improvement Association. It is brilliantly written and will help the reader understand basic gospel principles. $3.25 3 The Key to Theology by Parley P. Pratt In these days of intellectual confusion, a leader among Latter-day Saint literary figures of the Joseph Smith era provides guidance that is essential for our time. The author writes with the insight of a great scholar and the inspiration of a true apostle of Christ. $2.25 eeovove@eeceeeeneoeoeseresrneeronareeoeeeseeeserenesee@ooe Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah = a en, Gentlemen: enclosed please find check............ Money int Bi order... | have an account, please charge eseret 00 Amount $. Seseeecesesesessss-ee For the above numbered 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY books. | 2 3 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Name: - en. ' AMMresss onion cece eevee eee te teeeeceeeese hy: eeState:_.......... Zips... Residents of Utah please include 32% sales tax Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please include 4% sales tax. 6 R. S. Aug. 65 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah U&l Sugar gives you get up and go! For the active outdoor family, the natural food energy in picnic treats made with U & | Sugar... Is vital for healthy, active bodies! Serve energy-high U & | Sugar treats often. Buy Energy High U & | the sugar from our land. SUGAR My husband and | Mission here in Scotland. When we hold open house at the branch for investigators, i i ward Relief Society Presented me with Lue Ellen Glad Grenoble, France The elders in the Larne District of the Irish Mission would like to express their thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. It has been a great help to us in our Proselyting efforts, and it also gives us Elder Kent W. Peterson Elder Raymond A. White Larne, Northern treland | wish to tell you ho the lovely Magazines. My husband us in rearing our son and building our family relationships. The old copies of the Magazine to decorating ideas. Later, | found neighbor to help her with Christ, reading the Magazines. "They are beautiful to spoil," she Said. Mrs. Julia Moscow, | | do not know just what | enjoy in the Magazine, but if | were to a list, | would name the lovely tures, the Poetry, the letters in From Near and Far department, show us so much that this is a | would name are married a subscription is a must in their homes. Tion gives so much for so little—-s pirit. Ual articles and lessons, touching stories and poetry, beautiful covers, helpful homemaking and sewing hints, delicious recipes—just everything! Frances Bu Bountiful, The Relief Society Magazine SS Volume 52 September 1965 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 644 A Prophet in These Latter Days—Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 646 Repentance Henry D. Taylor 652 The Golden Seed Leola Seely Anderson Fiction 655 A Dress for Sherry Lynn Frances C. Yost 660 Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 5 Shirley Thulin General Features 642 From Near and Far 665 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 666 Editorial: Belonging Marianne C. Sharp 668 In Memoriam—Leah Dunford Widtsoe 669 Notes to the Field: Record with Commentary for Literature Lessons Available 693 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 670 Promise of Spring Irvin T. Nelson 676 Christmas Home Tour ~ 682 Swedish Weaving—An Ancient Art Peggy Tangren 685 Make a Drum Tree for Holidays Florence C. Williams 687 Come for Breakfast Hazel S. Cannon 692 Pearl Turley Frost Combines Art and Artistry Lesson Department 700 Theology—The Law, Man, and the Universe Roy W. Doxey 706 Visiting Teacher Message "See That Ye Love One Another...." Christine H. Robinson 708 Work Meeting—Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness Winnifred C. Jardine 710 Social Science—Home Is a-Harbor Alberta H. Christensen 716 Literature—No Lesson for December | Poetry - 641 Shadowless Interval Dorothy J. Roberts The Master Hand, by Maxine C. Greenwood, 650: Autumn, by Celestia J. Taylor, 651: Give Me An Upper Room, by Christie Lund Coles, 654; Shared Joy, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 654; French Twist, by June F. Krambule, 664: From a Schoolroom Window, by Bernice Ames. 668; Creek in Autumn, by Ethel Jacobson, 669: Four-Year-Old, by Lael W. Hill, 686; The Fabric of Our Years, by Pearle M. Olsen, 718. @ copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supPlied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new tober 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned uniess return Postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible-for unsolicited manu- A PROPHET J] Birthday IN THESE Jf Congratulations to LATTER DAYS fF President David 0. McKay @ Now in this time of autumn, there is rejoicing throughout the Church in many lands, and a feeling of praise and gratitude for the leadership, the direction, and the inspired counsel of President David O. McKay. In the wards and branches, in the stakes and missions, in all the borders and boundaries where the gospel message has been received, the saints, in their hearts, have a deep and abiding faith in President McKay as the prophet, seer, and revelator. For the women of the Church, the birthday of President McKay has special import and significance, for he has repeatedly counseled and advised and directed the sisters toward a full understanding of their privileges, their duties, and mission and blessings as wives and mothers and their responsibilities as members of the divinely established Relief Society. At this time, it is well to remember and to consider again the farreaching and eternal import of some of the treasured words of President McKay. The responsibility of Relief Society is to aid the Priesthood in establishing the kingdom of God, in relieving the suffering and giving succor to the poor, and in many ways to contribute to the peace and happiness of the world. In no way can these high achievements be better realized than in excelling in the art of home-building ("Home-Building As an Art,' The Relief Society Magazine, January 1936, page 10). Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. The mother's image is the first that stamps itself on the unwritten page of the young child's mind. It is her caress that first awakens a sense of security; her kiss the first realization of affection; her sympathy and tenderness the first assurance that there is love in the world ('"'The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," /bid, January 1940, page 20).... The influence of Relief Society is rapidly becoming world-wide, that influence carries with it great responsibility. I emphasize this increasing power and influence of Relief Society and of womankind in general, having 644 A President David O. McKay one purpose in mind: That increased attention be given and more intensified effort put forth to maintain and preserve the dignity of motherhood... To perpetuate the truth that home is the true foundation upon which is built the structure of true, civilized Christian society ('""Woman's Influence," [bid, December 1950, pp. 798-799). Ever keep in mind that you begin to lay the foundation of a happy home in your pre-marital lives.... Choose your mate by judgment and inspiration, as well as by physical attraction.... Approach marriage with the lofty views it merits.... Happiness in the home is enhanced by having children at the fireside.... Let the spirit of reverence pervade the home.. - - Let husband and wife never speak in loud tones to each other. Learn the value of self-control. _., Fasten home ties by continued companionship. Do everything to cement love for all eternity. Make accessible to children, proper literature and music. By example and precept, encourage participation in Church activity. This is fundamental in developing a true character. Church activity should be led, not directed by parents ("Ten Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home," Ibid, May 1953, pp. 284-285). The women of the Church acknowledge the goodness of the Lord in giving them the guidance and direction of his inspired prophet President McKay. We are grateful to President McKay for his tender, loving watchcare over the sisters of the Church 645 acetacoceeeconeeececestctats esesectchetetcecectccatararete x x 'es "es SX oxS SoS OO 3 22 oe @ In the world today there are two forces at work, one attempting to build man up, and inspire and bless him. The other, one of evil and hate, leading to degradation or destruction or both. The ancient prophet Mormon was aware of these forces, and wisely counseled his son Moroni: 'Wherefore, all things which are good cometh of God; and that which is evil cometh of the devil; for the devil is an enemy unto God, and fighteth against him continually.... But... God inviteth and enticeth to do good continually..." (Moroni 7:12, 13). These forces were at play even before we came to this earth. The scriptures relate the story of a great council that was held in the heavens where plans were discussed for peopling the earth. We learn that two plans were presented: one by God the Eternal Father, the other by Lucifer, the Son of the Morning. The plan submitted by God 646 Repentance Henry D. Taylor Assistant to the Council of the Twelve 'es es ELS oS ox 05 SRK ee <5 $8 50 3 5 ae << oS iS SX 'es % oKS <S e XKKO KS ux KEK Xs RRR RRS KOKORO Yee 2806 S55 < the Father provided that man would have the right to choose between good and evil, and freely exercise his agency. Jehovah, who in this life became Jesus the Christ, accepted the Father's plan, and wanted all honor, credit, and glory to be given to the Father. Lucifer proposed that all of our Heavenly Father's children would be saved, but it would be by force, with no right to make choices. For the part he would play, he selfishly demanded that all honor and credit be given to him. When Lucifer's plan was rejected, he became angry, and, leading a third of the hosts of heaven after him, waged war against the righteous hosts led by Michael, a supporter of Jehovah. For his rebellion and disobedience, Lucifer and his followers were cast out of heaven, and denied the blessing of obtaining mortal bodies. He became known as Satan, the devil. _ e heay, » "UCifer and his eyj] ASSOCiate been attemptin Ofttimes we ponder the pur. 0 lead the souls en astray Poses of in allowing us th Tough sin and lCkednesg. Privilege of Coming ¢ rth. T ormon taught his son Moronj braha, am f great faith another '™Mportant truth: Was given a vision in which he or behold, h Pirit of Christ beheld € asse blage of IS given to e n, that he Spiritua] being May know d from I - (Moronj 7:16 And there Ood Ong them t The Prophet Joseph Smith tha was like unto God, and he Said; =. Wh ith him: We learned of the two Powers Indiwill go down, for there igs Space there, cated above. On one of his annual and We will take at these materials Visits to the Hill Cumorah to and we will make an earth w ereon 9 these May dwell: meet the angel Moroni, Pp a And we will Prove them herewith, to > See if they will do all things Whatgos And they who keep their first estate IS_glorio Xperience, he beShall be added upon; and they who held the « ce Tkness " keep not thei nti t estate ghall a 7 ave Slory in ¢ am &dom wit who si Satan = innumer those who keep their first tate; and ble 8Ssociate Phet Was they h keep their d estate: e Pro 8iven an explanation Of this €Xshall have Slory addeq Upon their Perience wh it Was Pointed oyt 3a gfor "ver and ever (Abraham hat: Those of us who kept our first i pti. Fon and sect the estate were Privilege to come glory and the powe of dark. Earth and POssesg orta] bodies, ness, that yo now hereafter the 0 prove Oursely, and determine © power. E nfluenced Or Overcome by that Wicked one | -. U we uld: second (Comp. Hise Vol. 1, Pages 78.79)' estate by doing all that our Heavenly Father Would have us As w hink of atan 80ing do In thi €W experience Wwe about his Olica, leading are allowe to € decisions men into Ptation by through free sency, an given appealing to the wea nesses of the right + hoose, for Which the fles » We be 4Ssured of Principle Jehovah fought SO val one Ple by amenta] lantly again atan the w, truth he with 1] OWer and in heaven many times we unnin nnot overe, Me us if we Make err, Mistakes uninPray for Strength d strive ith tentional] € should learn 5 all our mj to k P the com. Our mistakes and avoiq repeatin Mandments Oo rd. We em. Ord, in hi dom, ca Stronger than the forces Indnesgg, d mere > has proof the advers Vided a Way that w, be for 8iven of Our t DSgressions It is Resta The urselve he wl ae Sod. Ve of 1 the beautipus 647 SEPTEMBER 1965 Running like a golden thread through the messages of the prophets comes the admonition, "Repent ye." And, with the restoration of the gospel, the voice of the Lord again is heard loud and clear: "Repent and be baptized." Thomas Carlyle declared: "Of all the acts of man, repentance is the most divine." When the heavenly light of the gospel message touches the heart of man, and he develops faith in an eternal Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ, he gains a desire to forsake forbidden paths and abandon evil ways, and changes his way of life. From an anguished soul he cries out: "O God! Have mercy upon me a sinner." This is repentance, that great principle of the gospel that can and does change men. It makes bad men good, and good men better. It is really a principle of progress encouraging man ever to do his best. In this process of growth or development there are certain generally accepted steps necessary to produce a reformation in one's life. First, must come an awareness of wrongdoing, bringing a feeling of genuine remorse and sorrow. Then comes action, with the forsaking or abandoning of that which is wrong. Another important step is a confessing of sins of whatever character they may be, slight or grievous. The Lord has placed among us the bishop, as father of the ward, and to him one who has repented and is seeking forgiveness should go. The Lord has stressed the importance of this procedure in these words: 'Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, re- 648 member them no more." Then comes the final test: "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (D&C 58:42-43). A repentant person will also make restitution, where it is possible to do so. And, finally, he will show his sincerity by sinning no more, but, instead, will render obedience to the commandments of our Heavenly Father. The Savior taught that if we expect the Lord to forgive us of our errors, we must be willing to forgive others. This encourages repentance, the prerequisite of forgiveness. As he taught his disciples how to pray, he implored: "And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors" (Matthew 6:12). And he further said: "But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses" (Matthew 6:15). In our generation the Lord has said to the people: "Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth - in him the greater sin' (D&C 64:9). What is the greater sin? It is the refusal td acknowledge and exercise the spirit of repentance. The Savior taught a beautiful lesson in forgiveness when a woman was brought before him who had been taken in sin. He faced her accusers with the challenge: 'He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her' (John 8:7). He wrote in the sand, then raising his head he said: 'Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no forgiveness, The Spirit of repent. Man condemned thee? Ance must be in the heart of the "She Said, No man, Lord. One forgiving a8 Well as in the nd Jesus Said yu her, Neither fart of th One tf Orgiven ° l conde th » ANd sin no here js a Pressive Stor more" (Jo n 8:] SIS a to of w Olehearteq 81venes touching lesson j tolerance and as Telated to Tepent. Orgiveness member that man who was travelj § in a unless Preceded by true repentyoung man Seated next to him ance, [+ Must be earned. Seemed to be very much deForgiveness Is a Continuing Pressed. Finally, the young Man, obligation and not a one-time In the Course of a Conversation, °Ccurrence. In answer to Peter's Stated that he 4 Convict re question, "T, » OW oft shal] my cently Teleased fro Son, and rother sin against me and I for. That his famj had Not visited S1ve him? Tj] Seven times?" him, nor d the tten often, The Mastery Said: «" Say not He had hoped that the reason unto thee, Until Seven times: but, they had not Visited him Was be. Until Seventy times Seven" (Mat. Cause they Were too Poor to thew 18 21-22). Travel, and Perhaps they had not In this Seneration the Lord has Writte Cause of their lack of again emp asized the need for a education wever, he had writPerson to °rgive often, In 1833, ten and asked he but up a € Save this essage to the Saints Signal for M, so th When th through their Prophet: train Passed the farm, he would And again, verily T say unto you, if know Whether or not he had been after thine ®nemy has come upon thee forgiven and Would be Welcomed e::, e first ¢ e, repent an com ome; 7 unto th Praying Vv forgiveness a again The. B was desig ou shalt forgive f » and sha hold Nate as whi n to be t no more as a testimony against Placed I a large apple tree Near thine enemy—; And 0 ©n unto the Second anq the Tailroad tracks, third time- 4nd as oft as thine enemy As the train approached the Vepenteth of t Tesp,. Nepewith A area of th fami] arm, the young as trespa sed against ¢ » thou s a Heive him, unti] Sevent €S seven Man beca TY anxious and a (D&C 9 Prehensive en he aw +t © Importance of the relation. Apple tr, eyes became bright Oo revelation Ithout Tepentance bbong ere ig basis foy forgiy, ness, lesseq he wh It in his yet when one Manifests true re. Heart to forgive the Tepentant Pentance, jit becomes the duty of Soul even before forgiveness Is re. All Concerned truly to forgive quested. But Sad it jg for one € Lord has Made it clegy that who is Unwilling to Tepe We shoul Oorgiy, t our While the Tepeated] has earts, T Wholehearteq given assurance his Willingness Orgiveness With Tvations 0 forgiy tho, ho €pent, he SEPTEMBER 1965 ner as follows: We are fin te Mortal, ect, we Ww I say unto you, I, the Lord, will not lay any t ur charge: go mistakes at wil requi Your ways and sin = a * unto ance hould b that soy Ww Net all the Ormer to he d that h oe ae Saith the Lo our God lishe d that great iit helps us to rein tate In this nection jt May be lis urs Ives h him and our Stressed th Principle of ye. Fellow?" What Satisfaction Pentance ig of; N associated With comes to W. Alizes that Sorrow t com transgres Soul when ble Ng of forgive sion by constant] *Xercising re. _negg 18 granted hj Pentance jn our hearts Theref, re, let y not PYrocrastj © Jews use to mete Out nate the Ime of Pentan, Punishment for acts Ommitted, for by it Prep Ourselves e vior ft. Ght hat Meet God Alm S so Well: Should Control oyr thoughts and For behold, this life is the tim impulses—factor. That Impel ac. Men to prepare to meet Gog -. 7 tions. He once said: is Wwhoso. Therefore, ] beseech of you that ye do n ma. Repentance until the end... E canafter hey hath committed adultery not say, what eed brought t, that at J With her already in his heart" awful Crisis that J will re ik Pent, th (Matthew 5:28), If thoughts will return to God. Nay, ye can. And impulses are Controlled, evil not S8Vathign TF For behold, ig acts will never occur, hence never have Procrastinated the day of your © even until » behold require Tepentance. Tepentanc the Master Hand,, Stark branches lend their tracery Of darker hue In this vast, barren land. 650 Autuma Celestia J° > A. Of autumn tints the hills thevleavesea -— 7 2S ms <- s Ge. "The lark illica t And ans C The signs of harvest' ti pe In fruiting trees, and fi O Oh, life is good; n this, our. Osemite National Park, California *hotograph by Hal Rumel -, BIE ree @ The sound of girlish laughter and the rise and fall of voices trying to remember that it was very, very late seemed to have ceased. Were the girls really asleep—at last? Slumber party! Where did such a gathering ever get its name? Better make a last check to be sure things had really settled down. They had—almost—except for Ann and that new blond girl whose family had moved into our block last spring. A pool of silver light from a sleepy moon etched their earnest young profiles in shadow. "Of course I really believe it!" Ann's voice left little doubt. "There is a God and he is alive, and he's on our side, and that makes us a majority in any crowd! You'll see when you go to 652 Seminary with me on Monday. Even if you don't quite understand, you can't miss the fact that all of us in the class believe ° it, and so does Brother Carter. He's wonderful! You know, you might find that 6:45 A. M. Hour the highlight of your whole day!" "Could I join the class?" Quietly I tiptoed away. A golden seed was being planted, and not for worlds would I have intruded. Just a year ago it hadn't been like this with my young neighbor. A busy young junior at high school, popular, loaded with activities, Ann had no extra time. An additional class at such an early hour was an unnecessary burden, her mother explained. The girl needed her sleep; her health must be considered; bei Sides she had to keep her 8rades | know jt is. But listen to anUp for that Scholarship she was Other "Seminary family". Working for, She Went to MIA Fifteen-year-oiq Mike 'Wilcox and Sunday Schoo], -_ Says: "Ww, rth it? Hy, Seminary ow l TI he arguhag Changed My whole life! I Ments; | t them both as Wasn't Much int rested in the Parent Seminary nstruc Church before, but this class has tor. An I've un Overed Some gg, t me making folder. ¢ discussin fact, religion th my friends Collect. Yes, our young People are ing Pictures, reading books, among the busiest in the World, Studying the Seniptures— why, it's combining School, extra curricy- £lven me a testimony and a de. Lar activities, and Church, But Sire to Prepare Now for a Mission. This Situation only Tequires that His Sisters, Karen and Sandra, they learn a type of daily Organito date adding a total of Seven zation of ¢ e energy Which years to Ike's two; Seminary Will be; aluable ¢ them foy th Say: "J has m S aware of Test of elr lives! Who we are and What we would And do want them to be like to be.. |. It Starts our day we £00d Students. Well, surveys With that 00d feeling. P have Shown that the best seminary Students—those Most faith. Anp the Mother of these three, Ul in att, dance 4nd highest in ister No Cox, of San &tades— SO rate high academic. €rnardino, California Says: "Ag all N one high chool jn my see my idren's lives grow Own district ewer than and beco Meaningfy] in Jans in ¢ last e ht y ars have ve sO much een Sem ary sraduates: Many of themselves to yo th so that More ha held y, Ponsible stymothers like can be Proud ent offices and excelle in both and happy ~ Scholarship d sport Since j; seems become a € health the active teen Matter o Telative ya ues, what Makes sure that her family jg Spirituality, that - wil] lead our wholesomely fed wil] find the adteenagers to Clean, happy lives of MOnition of the Master an effec. Faith, Service, temple Marriage, tive Correlating Suide: « - Cease and to exaltation in the kingdom 1 ther, ° sleep Ion er t IS needfy] of our Fa arise early, hat you bodies Every Cenager has the p tenand yo Ind ay be INVigortial to for Imself the same ated" (Dp C 88 124), Insight 5 0) the lad Whose Yet, Ive days a Week, ever Seminary Class udied the life School q —Is it real] Worth jt? F Sams nN, the Strong Man of SEPTEMBER 1965 young people had read the whole story as the scriptures unfold it _of a young man, a choice soul, richly endowed, ordained to be a deliverer of his people, who chose, instead, the road of selfishness, degeneration, suicide. The discussion in class was spirited. As the teacher pointed out that even Samson's last act, often heralded as a noble sacrifice, was only one of final vengeance, the proad-shouldered young athlete near the open window demanded, in Samson's defense: "Well, what would you do if they put your eyes out and worked you like an animal." And beside him, the quiet lad, looking out toward the stark, rocky hills, where the new day was beginning, answered softly, "What would you do if they nailed you to a cross?" Here, truly, a golden seed is springing up into a tree of life. Give Me an Upper Room Christie Lund Coles Dear Lord, give me an upper room Where | may come—even as you Came into a place of quietude — Where | may rest and pray, renew Myself. Where | may face my soul Quite unafraid; and, too, face thee, Freeing my spirit of its doubt, Its fear, its brief uncertainty. Let it be filled with utter love, Make it a sanctuary of grace, Of peace and beauty and of hope, Setting my world's most tranquil pace. Here, let me recollect the words, Admonishing, "Peace, peace, be still." Here, let me aspire to all that | may be, | Learning to know and love and live thy will. Shared Joy Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn My heart holds close your muted words, Too dear for songs—— Their captive beauty treasured lies Where love belongs. 654 7 doesn't seem to WwW enever Mama Sees us, €specia]- Seems as hap Y as if Santa Claus he Middle of June. I then I'm 80ing to each al] three of My girls ever ing J have Je arned, And be. Sides that, | [. M Wing for you girls." ou 1 can imagine how ex and thrilled M. Cited argaret Ann and ancy and | Ww en she Said 655 ly if She had ropped ' expecte to, she unexpectedly in SEPTEMBER 1965 that. Of course we pitched in and made beds and did dishes and everything before school, and after. Mama's dressmaking class went well, and Mama said she enjoyed every minute of it. We were all so proud when Mama wore the dress she made herself. Nancy and Margaret Ann and I could hardly wait until the day that Mama would take us all shopping for fabric for our first dresses. THEN one day when Mama was going to town she said: "Sherry Lynn, shine your shoes and wash real well, and put on your brown plaid dress, and you can go shopping with me. I believe if we will be extra careful on grocery buying this week, we can buy some fabric for a dress, and I'll try to make it." I must have looked disappointed, instead of bubbling joyfully as Mama had expected, because Mama said: "Sherry Lynn, don't you want to go shopping for fabric for a dress?" "Ves, Mama, but...." I didn't have the heart to tell Mama that Nancy and Margaret Ann and I had talked about all going shopping together for fabric for each of us. We had visualized Mama sewing up three dresses in quick time. In our dreams we had just forgotten that Mama had to plan and figure to buy extras, and that fabric for. Dresses for us three just wouldn't come all at once. We should have known that we would have to take turns, as we always did, with shoes and winter coats and things. I looked at Nancy. She's two 656 years older than I. I wouldn't want Nancy to feel hurt about not going to buy fabric. Nancy is so very pretty, and she's just as nice as she is pretty. But Nancy was looking happy about Mama's taking me. I looked at tiny Margaret Ann. She's two years younger than I. Why hadn't Mama promised her the first dress? Margaret Ann is a cute little pixie. You just can't help but love Margaret Ann. I thought Margaret Ann would break into tears and beg to have the first dress, but little as she is, she seemed happy that I had been chosen. "Do you want to go and pick out the fabric, Sherry Lynn, or would you rather I bought something in which you would look nice?" "Oh, I would rather go, Mama! It's just that I had hoped Margaret Ann and Nancy could go and get some yardage, too. If you would rather let one of them go, I could wait...." Mother is always so lavish with praise if she thinks we are unselfish, and she hugged me close, and said I was a good girl, and she would like very much to take all three, but their time would come. I wondered why Mama had chosen me to be first on the dressmaking list. Then I remembered the book on psychology Mama had been reading which pointed out that the middle child was often neglected, and I knew why I had been picked out to be the first for a new dress. So that's how I happened to go shopping with Mama. We looked at material in all of the dry goods stores. Then there it was, the fabric I really wanted. It was draped around a manikin and it was beautiful! I wish that I could paint a picture of this yardage. If you will think of the prettiest single pink rose you have ever seen, add a couple of lovely green leaves and a tiny stem, and then lay that one rose on a pale pink background, you will have a swatch of the cloth. Now think of dozens of this same lovely pink rose, and you will have the yardage which I chose. Mama liked the fabric, too. I could tell by the light in her eyes and her big smile. But she frowned slightly when she saw the price per yard. It was more expensive than she had wanted to pay. Mama felt the cloth and studied it carefully. I knew she was taking a thread count. I didn't pester about buying this certain piece, but stood close by, with my eyes squeezed tightly shut, and said a silent prayer, ever so hopefully, that Mama would decide on this lovely rose fabric for my very own dress. When the clerk came up and asked if she could help, Mama said, "We want a length of this material, but I want to buy a pattern first." My heart did some flip flops, I was so happy. Going through the pattern book was fun, too, and then we saw the exact pattern we wanted. Mama had the clerk get the pattern which was my age size, and we went back to the fabric counter. I was glad to get there because I feared someone might come and buy the whole bolt of lovely rose fabric while we were picking out a pattern. A DRESS FOR SHERRY LYNN The clerk was about to cut the cloth the length the pattern called for when Mama. Said, "Please give me an extra yard." I knew what Mama was thinking. Mama wasn't right sure of her dressmaking ability yet, and if she should make a mistake, she wanted enough cloth to cut another sleeve, or waist, or whatever might be needed. Mama let me carry the package after the clerk wrapped up the fabric, the zipper, the thread, and the pattern. I don't know when I have been so happy, as I was walking out of the store with it tucked under my arm. WHEN we went to the grocery store, Mama bought only the essentials. And I didn't tease for goodies, as I have sometimes. Valentine's Day was on its way, and Mama promised she would get the dress made by then. I could hardly wait for Mama to start working on the dress. Then one day, after Mama was caught up with the washing and ironing and the mending and darning, she started cutting out the dress. Since the pattern we had bought was just my size, Mama sewed while I was in school, and didn't have to fit it. When Nancy and Margaret Ann and I came home from school Mama said happily: "Well, I have your dress all finished, Sherry Lynn." It was beautiful hanging there on a hanger. The dress had a fitted bodice, and a really full gathered skirt. The sleeves came almost to the elbow with a ruffle around the edge. Because the dress had the lovely rosebuds all over, it just didn't need extra 657 SEPTEMBER 1965 slipped into the Sisters and Moth A dress just Couldn't have fit anyone better than that dress fit "Tt's yours, Nancy," I Said, I was happy for her to let's face It, I was so disappointed I could hardly Stand jt. Ancy stood Sort of Primping in front of the big mirror, byt She Said, "Sherry Lynn, I just could not take it from you, Mama, let's put it away until Sherry grows into it," Mama's Mind was Tacing ahead of all of us, "T bought extra fabTl just use some pal I'll desj you a dress out of what Is left, and it wil] be really clever," ama picked P a penci] and Started sketchin Oo envelope. € aress she desi » I wish into, as T hurried to take off my brown plaid dress, "Nancy! I'm Smothering, J can't get through!" "Oh, dear, it's too little," Mama moaned. A J - She looked 4S cute and beautify] and lovely u so disappointed I knew I would cry like a baby if I stayed there a second longer. I ran clear upstairs and hid myself deep in the closet. Hidden away all by myself, I cried and cried. After all the tears in my system were cried out, I started to analyze myself. I wasn't crying because Nancy and Margaret Ann had new dresses. I had wanted that all the time. I was crying because I had told all the girls in my class that on Valentine's Day I was going to wear a dress Mama had made for me. I just couldn't face the girls at school with my same old dark brown dress. But there in the closet, I decided I would have to, and I crawled out of my hiding place and washed up and went down for supper. THE next morming Nancy turned over in our bed and looked at me. I could tell she hadn't done much sleeping either. Then she spoke sort of timidly and softly so no one would hear. "Sherry Lynn, do you mind if I wear the rose petal. Dress for Valentine's Day?" "Of course not. I want you to wear it. It was made to be worn on Valentine's Day, and it is yours to wear." Margaret Ann, sleeping in the little single bed next to us, turned over then and spoke to me. "Sherry Lynn, is it all right if I wear my new dress today, too?" "Of course it's all right, Margaret Ann. I'd feel bad if you didn't wear it." I laughed and shrugged my shoulders, as I pulled on my same old plaid dress, then slipped on A DRESS FOR SHERRY LYNN my work apron. I hurried down first to help Mama with the breakfast. As I walked into the dining room there hung my white Sunday blouse. I should have known Mama would stay up and wash and iron it so I would look nice for Valentine's Day, too. But can you imagine my surprise when I saw beside the blouse a bright red corduroy jumper! Mama was smiling ever so sweetly when she spoke. "Sherry Lynn, I've stayed up half the night making this jumper, and if it doesn't fit, I'll chew the whole thing up like our billy goat would." I didn't have to be told to take off my dress and try it on. As I unpeeled my old brown dress Mama stood ready to slip the jumper over my head. I smoothed the skirt and moved in front of the big mirror and then just gasped. It fit perfectly, and I looked really neat and tailored and trim. I had thought lately I was too big for kisses, but I knew then that no one is too old to show love and appreciation. I turned and hugged Mama hard, and kissed her on the cheek. As I did, her salty tears and mine blended into great big tears. But we didn't care, we just hugged each other even more. As we left home to go to school with our valentines in a box, Nancy and Margaret Ann and I were singing, "My Funny Little Valentine."" And in my heart I was thanking my Heavenly Father for giving me such a wonderful mother, and giving us all three Valentine dresses at once. 659 Shirley Thulin Chapter 5 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, is criticized by her roommate Kathy Kirk, and by Dr. Desmond, for trying to shock Tom, a young patient, out of his despondency and to think of his possibilities. Kathy invites Joan to spend a week end at the Kirk family farm. While there, Tom's mother, Mrs. Aines, tells Joan that she is following the wrong course and is doing harm to Tom, instead of helping him. @ As the months passed, Joan found herself enjoying her visits with Kathy's folks more than she felt she should. She enjoyed the big bright moon and the clean fresh air, but, most of all, she was growing very close to little Joey. Today, however, Joan wasn't thinking about the farm. She was having a hard time concentrating on much of anything, because she knew that David had been trying to get Tom to show some interest in studying. "If you want me to, I'll coach you in English," she had heard David tell him. But so far, Tom would not commit himself. Joan kept watching for David to finish his morning's work and come to her floor, because she had a surprise for Tom. If only it 660 works, she thought... But it will... It's just got to. By noon she still hadn't seen David and was beginning to wonder if he were at work, when she saw him waiting for the elevator. "David!" She hurried down the hall. "David, guess what? I had a sudden inspiration yesterday. I went to a bookstore and got an English workbook... You know, the kind they use in high school? What do you think?" "I don't know, Miss Morgan, but it sure is worth a try." "I want you to take it to him. Are you sure it's English that he needs help with the most?" "No, I only guessed. It's English for most of us fellows. I'll take it in to him on my lunch hour. Thanks, you're great." As the elevator doors closed be- hind David, Joan smiled to herself. I'm far from being great, she thought, but still, I feel I really am accomplishing a great deal here. I feel that I am an efficient head nurse. She walked with a confident step to the end of the hall where the second floor nurses' station was in quite a hum of business. As she approached, the voices died down a bit. The quiet laughing stopped. "Two-forty-four is in quite a lot of pain. When did she have the last hypo?" Joan asked, reaching for the chart wheel. Then she caught sight of the look in both Miss Jackson's and Kathy's eyes. She didn't need to look up to know that Doctor Desmond was somewhere near. She busied herself with the writing on the card and pretended not to notice. I hope it doesn't show in my eyes as it does in theirs, she thought. By now, she knew her heart gave an extra little sigh whenever he was near, and this upset her. I'm too old for a schoolgirl crush, she kept telling herself. And she felt sure that's all it was, just an attraction. She also felt that he had made her feel this way on purpose. The way he had of looking at her, of teasing her... Just the same way he did all the others, she knew... Still, she felt he was especially attracted to her. Sometimes when their eyes met, she could feel he wasn't teasing... Even when he was scolding her, the message was there. Doctor Desmond was talking to Kathy now, and the sound of his voice, so deep, so sincere made Joan all warm inside. That's RING AROUND HER HEART pretty good, she thought. He's talking medical terms to another girl, and I get all flustered! She put the chart in its place and turned to go when he spoke her name. "Miss Morgan." She turned toward him. "Have you finished your rounds?" "Not completely." She didn't want to tell him that she still had Tom to visit, but was purposely waiting until after David had been there. She knew that to mention Tom's name always brought a strained feeling between them. "Doctor Niles wanted me to ask you to come in and see him when you're through." "Oh, thank you. Did he say what he wanted me for?" The young doctor smiled. "'No, he didn't. Have you been breaking any hospital regulations?" Joan quickly looked at Kathy and Miss Jackson. She couldn't tell for sure if their smiles were like his, good naturedly laughing with her, or if they were secretly laughing at her. As Joan stepped into Tom's room, she was disappointed. She had thought he would be busy with the exercises in the workbook. She had pictured him all smiles, all enthused. But, instead, the shades were still drawn, and the workbook was on his night stand. "Hi, Tom," she said. "Hello." "How would you like to sit in your easy chair for a little while today?" "How would you like to quit being so impossible? You know 661 SEPTEMBER 1965 I can't sit up in a chair." "Oh, but you can. The casts come off today." "Really? Why didn't somebody tell me?" "You didn't ask. Usually the first thing a patient in a cast asks is, 'how long does this thing have to stay on?' but you haven't asked, so nobody thought to tell you." "Miss Morgan... What will it be like? I mean to have the casts off" "Well, for one thing, you will weigh a lot less, and it will be easier for the nurses to make your bed, and we can help you to sit in a chair because with the casts off your legs, your knees will bend. Your back will feel weak where it has been supported by the cast, but you'll feel a lot better." Tom was smiling. For just a brief moment, he was smiling. Then the old cloud came back to his eyes. "Yeah," he said, "big deal. So I can sit in a chair. Then what?" "Then you can put the tray across your lap and put your English book on the tray, and..." "Oh, so that's it. You gave David that book to give to me. Well, you can take it back." "Now, Tom, it's not going to hurt you to just do a little each day. It will help to pass the time away. The exercises start out real easy, see?" she picked the book up and walked towards him. "Yeah. I know... Real easy. Well, I can't even do the real easy ones. Now, what does that do to your theory, Miss Morgan?" Joan pressed her lips together. She felt like shaking Tom. She 662 felt like shaking him real hard, and she felt like crying. She did neither. She just quietly placed the book back on the bedside table and walked out. Joan started to walk down the hall toward the nurses' station, but Doctor Desmond and the nurses were still there, so she slipped out the hall door and went down the steps. She was discouraged about Tom, and she was angered at the way all the young nurses made such a fuss over Dean Desmond. What makes me the most angry of all, she thought, is the way he just stands there enjoying it so much. Who does he think he is, anyway? She asked herself. After all, he isn't the only doctor in this hospital... But he is the best looking one, she had to admit. JOAN opened the outside door and felt the warmth of the afternoon sun on her, giving comfort. She hadn't stopped for lunch, and now she was too upset to be hungry. David was watering the roses by the south entrance. She went over to him. "This part of your job, too?" she asked him. "Oh, I do a little bit of everything. Have you talked to Tom?" "Yes. He isn't interested. He makes me so angry." "T know. When I was there, he told me I was just wasting my time. Said he'd never be able to pass the entrance exams. I told him that's what I was there for, to help him." "Oh, David, there has to be something we can do." "Maybe he's worried about money for college. He didn't say so, but I bet his mother doesn't have much money, what with be- Wi oor en she Temem- "Oh, D S it. Bere tha Doc 1 Why didn't | think of that? He Wanted to see her. She Wondered naturally Wouldn't Say anything. What he ed. I € wouldn't Want us ell, we can fix 4M going to find out about,. Pv here, ] Just hay So * oan, I wish you were right, 4; Want you to look Over. We — » Joan, money has need two fe) Nothing to do wi 'o> VOlsarg doing a fine job, » Lhere jg plenty Miss Morgan," of Money for his Schooling., "Could be that e just wants hig &aze held ers. Sh felt as if eeps telling you." More, but he di Mt, € took "Kat > can't quit. I just the Papers he handed to her know there's Way to get him i these back on that farm," "Wel 4pplications TeCent?" she asked, "Yes, [ think you should look } Y, you are asking th I for g lot of e. Ve me the Names, T four yoy think Sound TY not to become the best," too attached to your Patients" » will, Doctor Niles," She took 4N couldn' answer that one. The Papers and Stood up. Hadn't f S though sh "Oh, 18s Morgan I have just ™M, not until Ka Y mentioned seen him for a Couple of days, W she could See that it was What ve y done to that boy?" Joan was on her Way to the "There is money? Then why?" you to leave h; alone, as he he Want were becoming Docror Niles Ooked at her and Say Something ttached © been in Tom's room, [| hadn't SEPTEMBER 1965 up at the Doctor. His eyes were soft, and it seemed to her that he was almost ready to smile that big smile of his again, but it was just a pleasant smile... A little smile. "Do you know what he was doing when I got there?" "No." "He was sitting in a chair with some kind of a schoolbook on his fap."' "He was?" "Yes. He said you had given him the book." "Wiese... J...." "T wouldn't get my hopes up too high, Miss Morgan, these cases are changeable, but I think you have made good progress." "Oh, thank you, Doctor. I hope so." "Now, if you'll just look those papers over this evening, I'll expect a report in the morning." Joan thanked him. "T'll have them ready," she said and tried to hold her voice calm, though there was a happy little tune trying to bubble from between the words she spoke. Suddenly Joan felt hungry. She hurried to the lunchroom. I hope they haven't closed, I'm so late for the lunch hour, she thought. She also hoped she would see someone to talk to. Doctor Dean Desmond would do just fine. She wanted to tell him how Tom was.... She wanted to let him know that, at last, she was getting through to Tom. Joan entered the room and looked around. There were a lot of late diners. She spotted Miss Jackson and Doctor Desmond sitting in a corner of the room. She decided not to bother them. She had picked up a tray when she heard it—the piercing sound of the ambulance. At first it was so small a sound that she knew the ambulance was still blocks away from the hospital, then as it came closer, the sickening scream filled her whole being. She quickly looked around her. No one else had seemed to hear it. Everyone was still eating and quietly talking. Why shad the sound cut through her like this? She certainly had heard sirens before. She put her tray down and hurried towards the emergency entrance. The ambulance was carrying someone she knew... She was sure of that, for long ago, in the night, she had heard the siren just like this. (To be continued) SED French Twist June F. Krambule Little hands with sculptor's way, What fame you'll someday win. | find it evidenced each day: The shapes | find my hairpins in! 664 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. May Case, of Clovis, California, has been a newspaper woman longer than any other in the United States. Now ninety-one years old, she still writes a weekly column for the Clovis Independent. She began to work seventy-eight years ago, and at sixteen she started helping her just-wed husband on the Purcell Register, Oklahoma Territory, which he was just founding. She was interviewing Indian chiefs when Nelly Bly (supposedly America's first woman reporter) was sailing around the world in a balloon. She was a good friend of Geronimo. Miss Eva B. Adams, of Wonder, Nevada, director of the United States Mint since 1961, is the woman who will oversee the first major change in American coinage since 1792. Probably about thirty million coins will roll off the mints. A great deal of nickel and copper will be used to relieve the shortage of silver. Mrs. Ann Slattery, a Utah woman, became America's champion professional ladies' bowler fast winter and has received many honors. Patricia Hunt has been editor of the Nature Department of Life for more than ten years. She goes to endless trouble to search out nature's strangest and most interesting specimens, which have a scientific bearing. In order to get underwater pictures for a story on whales, she rented a private submarine with a picture window. Dr. Marie A. Valdes-Dupena has been conducting autopsies on cases of unexplained baby deaths in Philadelphia. More than 200 mystery ''crib deaths" have occurred in Philadelphia in recent years, and also all over the country. Some unknown form of disease appears to be responsible for many of these. So far, Dr. Valdes-Dupena and her international colleagues have been unsuccessful in determining the causes, but they are hoping for a_ breakthrough. Dr. Elizabeth M. Drews is a nationally esteemed authority on gifted children, who has been working closely for the past three years with Michael Grost, the eleven-year-old freshman at Michigan State University, considered ''one of the most spectacularly productive minds in the history of the human race."' He is also one of the "nicest" children imaginable. Mrs. Helen Waterhouse, eminent journalist of Akron, Ohio, who won a firstplace national award for her articles on highway safety, was killed on June 12, in her home town, in an automobile accident on the highway. Mrs. Waterhouse, an expert pilot, was one of the first women aviation editors of a newspaper in the United States. Many of her articles, written on assignment from Korea, Japan, Indo-China, Formosa, Hong Kong, Manila, Cuba, and Dienbienphu, were syndicated all over the United States. 665 EDITORIAL Belionginc Alone one comes into the world and alone one leaves it, but, while in mortality, the soul longs for understanding, companionship, and to have a sense of belonging. In the days of one's youth with the family as rather a reserve group, still it is necessary for one's rounded happiness to have peer companions. Literally hours may be spent in conversation and confidences of vital importance to the young girl. A mother is concerned about a daughter who seems to have no friend of her own age with whom she can associate. When such a friend is found, a happier relationship develops. The need for belonging sometimes results in too early dating, with attendant evils. It is essential that one be friendly with those of the same high ideals. Sometimes this need to belong to the crowd leads young people into foolish fads. But if there is nothing degrading about it, a wise mother accepts it for what it is—an expression of the need to belong, to conform to the appearances of one's schoolmates. The joy of belonging reaches its epitome as a bride is sealed to her husband. Hereafter she does belong, and she knows it will last throughout eternity. Then the young wife needs to cherish and nourish the spirit of belonging. She needs to study her husband's righteous wishes and desires and do all in her power to strengthen and bind their eternal relationship. ''They twain shall be one flesh,'' and she needs to make her life a part of his. The children who bless their union, and the joys and sorrows bind them ever closer together. A remark will be made in a crowded group. It strikes an answering the Advocate with the Father. The greatest belonging will be to belong to the celestial family. The Lord has Said, "'It is not meet that the things which belong to the children of the kingdom should be given to them that are not worthy"' iN MEMORIAM Leah Dunford Widtsoe February 24, 1874 — June 7, 1965 Leah Eudora Dunford Widtsoe, wife of the late John A. Widtsoe, a member of the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, June 7, 1965. She was the daughter of Dr. Alma B. Dunford and Susa Young Gates, a gifted pioneer writer, a former editor of The Relief Society Magazine, and a daughter of President Brigham Young. Sister Widtsoe attended the University of Utah, Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York, and was graduated from Brigham Young University in 1889. She was a gracious and cultured woman, carrying out the many responsibilities which came to her during the time that her husband studied in Europe, served as President of Utah State University, and the University of Utah, as well as traveling with Dr. Widtsoe to his many assignments as a General Authority of the Church. She was the author of several books and many articles in the field of domestic science and arts, and was co-author of The Life Story of Brigham Young. Among her many honors were an honorary Doctor of Humanities Degree from Brigham Young University, and her election as a member of the Utah Hall of Fame. She will long be remembered as a distinguished daughter of pioneer families, and as a loving and devoted wife and mother. The General Board of Relief Society extends sympathy to the two daughters of Sister Widtsoe, Mrs. Ann W. Wallace and Mrs. Eudora W. Durham, to their families, and to the wide circle of friends who have known and loved Leah D. Widtsoe. From a Schoolroom Window Bernice Ames The teacher asked Jane to spell ''foretold,"' But meadows below her are brimming with gold, And the voice in the room is drifting again As cicadas shrill like a scratchy pen. Tom should explain the Civil War, But a groundhog hole, unnoticed before In the field outside, makes his fingers itch, And two crows hang over a muddy ditch. The window stays the spirit's return From summer fields to facts children learn. 668 RECORD WITH COMMENTARY FOR LITERATURE LESSONS AVAILABLE Through Brigham Young University A twelve-inch, long-playing record (33% rpm) containing selected excerpts from the poems and short stories included in the 1965-66 literature course of study, is now available. Included, also, is a brief commentary describing and analyzing the selections. The record is packaged in an album, with label and dust jacket, price $3.50 postpaid, and may be obtained from the Media Development and Marketing Department, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601. (See advertisement on page 719 of this issue of the Magazine.) Creek in Autumn Ethel Jacobson Tumbling from distant heights, The creek careens and lurches, Roistering on its way Between the copper birches. Where burnished trunks bend low, White water swirls and falls, And a tawny chipmunk chatters And a tanager calls; And the spendthrift, hurrying stream Flings largesse left and right, When autumn rains down birch leaves, New-penny bright. 669 w@ A spring garden, like anything worthwhile, needs some foresight, intelligence, and a bit of work. For the experienced gardener and for the best results, the planning for next year's garden commences when this year's garden is in bloom. At that time a person can see the successes and failures and plan _ accordingly. Then, too, it is necessary to start early to get the plants ready. Even with bulbs, it is advisable to order in May or June, if one is to be sure of getting what he wants at good prices. Also, with other plants for a spring garden, it is necessary to get them underway before summer is too far advanced. For example, if you are going to use pansies or violas, which are generally next to bulbs, as the main feature of a spring garden, then the seed must be ordered and planted before mid-July. If you are going to use primroses in next start to divide the plants after —- they are through blooming. So a year ahead. However, if you are one who has not started until now, do not despair. If you take a few definite steps at once you can get along very well. 4 | Preparing for a Springtime Garden Irvin T. Nelson Director of Landscaping, Temple Square, Church Historic Sites, Foreign Temples, Mormon Pavilion, World's Fair Member, White House Conference on National Beauty LIVAPOUVLPOLPOOLPOOLP VLPVAP LP! LPL PVLPOO LDV LPO LPO PLP LPL PAPO PV LPO LPL IN LPL LPVLPV POV APVLPOVLP APO! LP VAPVLP VLD VAP VAPOVAPOVLPVLP VL VAP VLA PVLPOLD VLD OL PLP? SELECTION OF PLANTS You must first decide what you want in your spring garden. Usually bulbs of some sort are an immediate choice—hyacinths, tulips, daffodils, narcissi, and a score of others. If you are uncertain of what you really want, get some good bulb catalogues or books, or talk with some experienced gardeners for ideas. Visit nurseries or stores featuring bulbs as soon as they are on display. Here you can get ideas and, which is often important, find out how much various things are going to cost. Remember, for the small garden, great numbers of bulbs are not necessary. By proper selection of varieties and colors, and by wise grouping, you can get splendid results. I 670 Transparencies by the Author i estiennditmsinnss year's garden, then you should it is usually good to plan about PROMISE OF SPRING remember several years ago when the bulb growers of Holland offered some very choice prizes, including some trips to Europe, for the best pictures showing the use of tulips. The picture which won first prize was of a single tulip. Beauty is not necessarily in great masses of color. Usually solid colors give the best results. The good gardener seldom uses mixtures. The one exception to this is in the use of pansies, where mixed varieties will give the desired effect. Most seed growers are very careful in the selection of the seeds which make up their mixtures. Highly skilled workmen rogue out any colors in a given planting which do not harmonize with what they want for best effect. But even when using mixtures, some gardeners select colors which are alike and which harmonize, and place them together so, in effect, they are following the principle of using solid colors. Of course, height of the plant is another thing which must be considered in your planting. If you do not know how high varieties grow, you can usually find out. As a general rule, the tall varieties will be placed in the back of a bed. But even in the bed as a whole some variation in height adds great interest. There is not much difference in the texture of plants grown from bulbs, but, usually, in the shape and size of the flower there is a decided difference, so when plants are properly selected you get the pleasant feeling which comes from this important element in design. PLANTING BULBS All bulbs require soil reasonably well drained. Most any soil is good enough to grow bulbs the first year, if they have drainage. The ordinary bulb has sufficient food in it to produce a good blossom, so that feeding of the soil is not too necessary if other factors are satisfactory. Among these factors, in most places, is the proper application of water. When the bulbs are placed in the ground there must be a certain amount of moisture in the ground so that the roots can properly develop. You can plant tulips anytime from October to December. It is good to plant daffodils earlier in the season. All during the fall and early winter months, the bulb is sending out roots so that the plant is ready to go early in the spring. Therefore, keep the soil moist. Daffodils are especially responsive to the proper amount of moisture in the ground. In the springtime, however, is when you must be especially careful regarding moisture content of the ground. Make sure the plants have sufficient moisture all during the growing season. As soon as the buds start to show be especially diligent in the application of water. Here you must use good judgement because a heavy soil, of course, will require less water than a sandy soil. The blooming period of bulbs can be prolonged ten days to two weeks and sometimes longer by the proper application of water. Tulips can ordinarily be left in the ground for three or four years or longer, depending on how long they continue to give satisfactory bloom. Be sure to remove the seed pods after blooming and let the 671 SEPTEMBER 1965 leaves die away naturally. After digging, some of the bulbs might be large enough to replant the following fall. Hyacinths, which are usually planted six to eight inches deep, can remain in the ground for long periods and give good resuilts—eight, ten, or twelve years. Daffodils can be left in the same place almost indefinitely. When put in the right place, they tend to naturalize themselves. I have seen them in woodland gardens for over twentyfive years. Some good varieties of tulips (among the thousands) which harmonize in color are: Pink—Eros (lovely double), Smiling Queen, Geo. H. Recks, Princess Elizabeth, Pride of Zwanenburg, Barbara Pratt; Yellows—Niphetos (lemon), Mother's Day, Mrs. Scheepers; White—Mt. Tacoma (double), Zwanenburg; Blue—The Bishop (still good); George Grappe (tall lavender). GROWING PANSIES AND VIOLAS It is generaly difficult to get a wide selection of pansies on the market. Most growers have only mixed varieties. So some gardeners grow what they want. If you are going to grow your own plants, you must sow the seeds about the middle of July. The seed beds, which are usually shaded, must be carefully watched. After you have scattered the seed on the ground, we suggest that you cover it with sand. It isn't too difficult to keep the sand moist, and it is especially effective when the plants start to grow. Wilting off seldom occurs when the ground is covered with sand. When the seedlings have four leaves on them, they can be transferred to temporary bedding boxes and planted six inches apart. They can then be left in these beds until early spring when they should be transferred to the garden. In the fall, after the first heavy frost, it is a good thing t cover the seed beds with clean straw or salt hay. This will preven: the ground from alternately freezing and thawing, which tends to lift the plants out of the ground. It requires some skill and care to grow pansies and violas from seed, but it is done by many gardners and is a very rewarding experience after you learn how to do it. Pansy seed can be obtained from most ordinary seed houses, but one of the best places for you to contact, I think, is Harold's Pansy Gardens, at Grants Pass, Oregon. These people prepare some instructions for amateurs which are very helpful in the growing of pansies and violas. So when you write for the catalogue be sure to ask for planting instructions. Some choice pansies are (consult catalogues for colors) Lake of Zurich, Ullswater Blue, Beaconsfield, Heaven's Queen, Paydirt, Luna, Jungfrau, Raspberry Rose. Among the best violas are: Jersey Gem, Blue Perfection, Chantryland, Papelco. Remember in growing pansies and violas that they are very heavy feeders. They need plant food. If a little barnyard manure can be (Continued on page 674) 672 A Spring Promise Is Kept—Seven varieties of pansies and violas, five hyacinths, and a few rocks complement each other. The Abundant Generosity of Spring in a Lovely Setting. é o lin ca neg eS. Left: Shape, Texture, Color, and the Pleasure of Sunlight and Shadows at the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair. Right: Wallflowers and Forget-menots at the London Temple. Worked into the soil before you transfer the plants to the garden, the results are good. Feeding with commercial fertilizer, of course, gives splendid results, also. But in any case remember that these plants need to be properly fed. FORGET-ME-NOTS AND WALLFLOWERS Forget-me-nots can be a very important and pleasing plant in the garden and are used by many people. When once grown in places where there is shade, and where the ground is not disturbed too much, they seed themselves from year to year. There are pink varieties, as well as blue, which add to the interest. Wallflowers, in different colors, are coming to be used more and more in the home garden, as is also the little English daisy. European gardeners get splendid results from these plants. Forget-me-nots and wallflowers can generally be obtained from any commercial grower; however, you can grow these also. "Singing Trees." <j A Welcome Home °. —— 7. Me.. A ay @ y = ati '. 9 4 ae Reward ' | | |., al \ > @ On December 4, 1964, many hundreds of hours were climaxed by a decorated Christmas home tour, during which 700 women toured five Latterday Saint homes. Early in 1964, Whitney Ward Relief Society, under the direction of Joyce Lund, had the idea of selecting five homes, decorating each with a different holiday theme, and inviting the public to see the homes. Behind the tour idea was the purpose of exhibiting and selling the year's work in handicraft —in other words, a dressed up showcase for the annual bazaar. Realizing that this was a large undertaking for one Relief Society, nearby Arden Ward, with Uarda Crockett as President, was asked to join in the project. HERR HOH HY Ciiristmas Home four Whitney and Arden Wards, American River Stake, California Lois S. Fife, President, American River Stake Relief Society ORM MO OR KH TPT eee ee eee eee eee Se eee S eM RM MH MY HM HH HOF Robert Larson Home, Arden Ward Theme — Formal Christmas Dinner An arrangement by the door, consisting of a styrofoam tree, with the base wired to a rattan basket covered with artificial greens, red satin, bells, pine cones, and beads. Articles sold in this home were dish towels, pillow cases, sweaters, aprons, and other sewed articles. - oe ~~ se - _ StS: H. Holling Lowe Home, Arden Ward Theme — "Deck the Halls" This is a very modern home, and so the decorations were modern. The tree above the fireplace and the ornaments hanging from the stairways are fashioned in shapes of Christmas ornaments, cut from cardboard and covered on both sides with burlap in pastel colors to complement the furnishings of the home. Designs on the ornaments were constructed of assorted sequins, silver and gold sprayed toothpicks, doilies, jewels, rickrack, beads, braid, felt, gold and silver seals, and ribbon. Table displays handmade items for sale. Ronald Andrew Home, Whitney Ward Theme — Old-Fashioned Children's Party To bring out the children's party idea, the drummer boy motif was represented, beginning at the entry to the home. The drummer boy in the picture is made of plywood and boughs. Accordingly, three homes in Whitney Ward and two in Arden Ward were featured. White tree markers were used on the lawns of the five homes for identification. Tickets were sold at $1 each. Over 1500 handmade bazaar items were on display. Each ward had a coded ticket and received the money from the sale of its own items, as well as the money from its own ticket sales. Mutual expenses were shared. Local newspapers were most cooperative, and over a dozen pictures and stories were used. Reactions of the women making the tour were highly enthusiastic and full of praise. More important, however, was the fact that each ward noticed an increase in attendance and participation. Inactive women and working mothers called up and volunteered to make articles. Each home was decorated in accordance with a particular theme and in keeping with the decor itself. The decorations were also sold, to be picked up after the completion of the home tour. Because one of the purposes of Relief Society is to help make our homes more attractive, an "idea" sheet was distributed to guests, telling how to make the decorations. 678 Tablecloth fashioned to resemble a drum. Soldier favors made from waxed paper tubes. The table, later, was set with red, white, and blue cups and plates, with streamers running from the soldiers to the ball above. The ball is made of chicken wire, covered with boughs and decorated with twinkling lights and toy items. Natural green tree decorated with red velvet bows and candy canes. Five matching handmade stockings hang above the fireplace. The train (to hold small packages) is made from cardboard cartons of various sizes and shapes, covered with Christmas wrappings. Vern Swanson Home, Whitney Ward Theme — Christmas Delicacies Christmas baked _ goods were sold in the family room of this home. Highlighting the theme was an old-fashioned cookie tree. Notice the star on top and Santa in the center. The mantel in the living room carried out a religious scene of Mary and Jesus cut in paper sculpture, with heads in gold foil, mounted on turquoise velvet, and surrounded by a lovely white angel's hair wreath, pink balls, small pink flowers, and gold leaves. Boughs and _ twinkling lights completed the arrangement. Cliff Ekstrom Home, Whitney Ward Theme — A Christmas Wedding The tree in the living room represented a bride's tree, with ornaments made of plastic doilies cut in half and sewed into cone shapes, accented by gold doves and balls. The tree has a satin skirt with velvet bows. Gift items — bags, dolls, toys, and colorful decorative articles for the home. swetis Weaving An Ancient Art Peggy Tangren @ This lovely needlework is known as Swedish huck weaving, as Danish darning, and Jugoslay darning. It is an ancient art form, and the variety of names suggests that it originated in either the Scandinavian or Slavic countries and has become identified with these people. We, too, may add its beauty to our linens and wearing apparel. I have found pattern books in art and needlework departments in stores, in needlework magazines, in catalogues issued by needlecraft mail order houses, and, to my delight, I found some very old designs in books on weaving in the public library. After I learned the technique, I was able to create some new patterns of my own. Dress Created by Emma Snyder Model Elise Elggren Transparency by Hal Rumel Huck towels are quickly and easily woven and I recommend them for beginners. Those shown here are 16" x 30". Huck can also be purchased by the yard in many colors and widths, from 16" to 36". If the towel is finished, it is necessary to rip out the hem, pull threads to assure evenness, and turn the hem the other way. This makes the back of the towel become the right side, and it is on this side the weaving is done. Each prominent pair of threads in the huck represents one stitch. Weaving is done by running a six-strand embroidery floss, or a heavy pearl embroidery thread under these double threads, taking care not to go through the towel. To center the design, fold the towel lengthwise down the middle. With a long thread, work the first row from the center to the left edge of the towel, leaving half the thread to work from the center to the right edge. All other rows can be worked from right edge to the left. Pull the ends of thread through to the wrong side of the towel, and leave them loose until the design is finished. Then go back and weave them under. Huck is ideal for towels, place mats, porch and living room pillows, knitting bags, and purses. But why stop there? By using a lighter weight material, such as waffle weave pique, this beauty can be added to the clothes we wear. The apron shown here is made of organdy, with a woven pique band set in. The pique band on the bottom of the skirt is now gracing its second dress, having outlasted the first dress for which it was made. A full six-strand embroidery thread was used for all these pieces. Children's clothes are given a gay, old-world charm when skirts and jackets are trimmed with this weaving. Pique is a cotton material ribbed by a single raised thread creating small squares, about fifteen squares to the inch. Weaving is the same as on huck, with this exception: one square is skipped. Every other raised thread represents a stitch, and the weaving thread goes under the single pique thread. A sharp needle 682 has to be used on pique, and I find it does just as well on huck. 9 HH }j first row < Oo =] = cate: PIQUE 1-H |-—_ jp__ | 26 I i ——t —— I py Fr 1 jy ——}1—__ i ST ane tales ate ee ee Pana di. Pitt fio i SRE REY first row;: i H i 2 el aes eee ee "+ Pm ae a Wee $ Poe a Sen oe ee ee Oe tae ee ee eee rj pote: i+--+ H i i i: am | H ori irae one ~dne. 1 tee an Pom aoe ee i ppt i z: i ee 684 Make a Drum Tree for Holidays Florence C. Williams Transparency by Hal Rumel A many-branched miniature tree, decorated with a half dozen or so drums, makes an attractive and unusual decorative feature for the holidays—any holiday—Constitution Day in September, Columbus Day in October, Thanksgiving Day in November, the Christmas season, or into February for Lincoln's or Washington's birthday. For the summer season, a Fourth of July or a Pioneer Day occasion can be made colorful and festive with a drum tree. If you want the drum tree for a table centerpiece or for placing near the fireplace or on a mantel, it may be a small tree, but if you want to place it in the hall to speak a welcome to your guests, or if you wish the tree to brighten a corner of the family room or the living room, then it may be larger, such as an oak tree branch, an elm tree branch, or an apple tree branch of suitable shape and coloring. Cut the branch in length and shape to suit your purposes and place it in a can of sand to hold it upright and solid. If the color and texture of the wood are not particularly attractive, the branch may be sprayed with white enamel or gold paint, which will make a contrast with the red, white, and blue colors of the drum. The decorative drums may be made large or small to harmonize with the tree, and, if it is for a children's party or a dinner party, smaller drums make colorful and unusual favors. The following directions are given for making a drum 8 inches in diameter: From a circular-shaped core of styrofoam (3 inches in diameter) cut a piece 2144 inches wide to make the drum. With strong, clear glue, attach a circle of white felt to each end of the drum shape. Cover the circumference of the styrofoam with dark blue velvet and glue narrow red velvet ribbon to each edge, leaving a loop (114 inches) of the red velvet ribbon for hanging the drum to the tree. Then glue an edging of gold-colored cord between the blue velvet and the red velvet ribbon, and, for decoration, attach the gold braid to form triangles around the drum. Hold the points of the triangles with dark blue headed pins. For drumsticks, cut swab sticks in lengths of about 314 inches and glue the sticks into round wooden beads. Cross the two drumsticks and glue to the white felt at the side of the drum where the loop is attached. Make as many drums as you want for decorative purposes or favors, and then make some extra drums for Christmas presents for the children, or some very small drums to decorate gift packages. 685 686 Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Four-Year-Old Walker of fences Percher in trees Bearer of bruises And torn dungarees, Talker to robins Searcher of loots Sharer of cookies With Boston-bull brutes, Lael W. Hill Learner of blossoms Bringer of song Sleeper not often And never for long, Spurner of grown hands Clinger to hearts Keeper of heaven— In bits and in parts. ENG GGG OGOGGGNGNG.. One RRRRRK a @ Have you considered inviting ' friends over for a late summer = breakfast or brunch? There is a special charm about morning gettogethers—a freshness of atmosphere, a lilt of spirit. As the last into autumn, for most families it means the approach of school, loved ones departing, and a OOOO O™ ——— LS RRR x) 7 "| 7 E. Cannon It is usually less expensive also. Morning parties, however, can be pretty as you please, whimsical as you wish, and can call forth your most original ideas. Many doahead foods may be used (it is surprising how many partial food preparations can be made the day before); the table can be set and: glorious days of late summer ebb change of pace and activity. So why not set aside a "lazy" morning to extend hospitality? This type of entertaining is fun for the hostess as well as for the guests, snee the preparation ls essentially simple and informal.: Hazel S. Cannon Former Member, General Board of Relief Society Transparencies by Hal Rumel Adults' Table: Accessories, Carole Children's Table: Accessories, Jane S. Tibbals and Doralee D. Madsen often the centerpiece arranged, leaving just last minute preparations for the morning of the breakfast. If the meal is held closer to lunchtime it becomes heartier, partakes of both breakfast and luncheon foods, and is called brunch. Late Summer Brunch Fresh Fruit Bowl Creamed Breast of Chicken Rice Ring or Jane's Elegant Rice Casserole Broccoli Parmesan Carrot Posies Celery Federal Heights Cinnamon Rolls Butter Apricot Marmalade COME FOR BREAKFAST There is no greater bargain for your morning meal than summer's bounty of luscious fruits, flavor-best vegetables, and lovely, home-grown flowers. Used for the above brunch is a basket of late summer garden roses in yellow tones on an inexpensive, striped India madras cloth. Danish china with a blue flower motif and bright blue glassware hold the brunch fare. A bowl of icy cold fruit makes a perfect starter. Why not serve a medley of fruits—fresh peach slices, green grapes, pear pieces (canned or fresh), rather large cantaloupe balls, grapefruit segments, and plump, well-drained frozen blueberries in a slightly sweetened orange juice? You may wish to concoct your own juicy goodness to accompany the fruit, using a very thin sugar syrup as a base, adding lemon juice for tang, and a whisper of wintergreen or mint flavoring for that subtle something. If guests are seated together at one table, it is a gracious and pretty gesture for the hostess to ladle the fruit into individual dishes right at the table, and it helps to make the occasion a special one. The breast of chicken, in its quick-to-make, satiny smooth, and superbly seasoned sauce, is a gourmet dish. It is served over fluffy white rice, seasoned lightly with butter, packed in a buttered mold, and kept warm until serving time. Punctuating the center of the rice mold are perky carrot posies stuck in lettuce pieces (it is simple art), and buttered broccoli bundles with a sprinkle of Parmesan cheese frame the ring. To make the carrot flowers, choose a rather fat carrot, and cut about four shallow wedges the length of the carrot. Then thinly slice the carrot crosswise in rounds. If you desire the posies to cup or curl cut almost paper thin and chill for several hours in ice water. Place each flower on a green plastic pick. For variety, add tiny, unnotched carrot slices to some of the flowers to produce a double effect. The creamed breast of chicken may also be served over Jane's elegant rice casserole, a jewel in any recipe collection. Add a little extra water and tuck this excellent dish beside Sunday's roast as you leave for church. The starchy vegetable will be ready for lusty appetites upon your return. For a nostalgic brunch fill your house with the tantalizing fragrance of baking cinnamon rolls as your guests gather. "But," you protest, "hot bread for breakfast requires rising at dawn." A refrigerator bread is the perfect solution, and Federal Heights cinnamon rolls, mixed the evening before, are easy, delicate, light-hearted, and with a bit of jelly or preserve are a delectable finale to your brunch. A rule worth remembering is: "Make your guests wait for the hot bread, but never make the hot bread wait for the guests." CREAMED BREAST OF CHICKEN (Courtesy Helen L. Goates) 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 4 c. Mayonnaise (scant) dash of garlic salt 14 c. Sour cream 3 chicken breasts, cut in halves 4 c. Nippy cheese, grated Method: Wash and salt each one-half chicken breast. Line a 9" x 18" baking pan with metal foil, leaving ends long enough to cover pan. Place chicken in pan and bake in oven for about 114 hours or until tender. Cool and remove skin and bones. Leave liquid in pan and return breasts to pan, placing upside down to prevent drying out; cover again with foil and keep in warm oven until serving time. Combine all the sauce ingredients in a double boiler, with the exception of the mayonnaise. Add the mayonnaise just before serving to avoid curdling. Pour hot sauce over chicken breasts. Serve over plain rice or Jane's elegant rice casserole. Serves 6. 689 SEPTEMBER 1965 JANE'S ELEGANT RICE CASSEROLE (Courtesy Jane S. Tibbals) 1% c. Uncooked white, converted long %, c. Celery, cubed grain rice (not instant type) Y, tsp. Onion salt Y4 c. Wild rice Y, tsp. Garlic salt 1 can consomme % lb. Canned mushrooms, buttons or 1 can cream of mushroom soup slices, and liquid 2 c. Water Y% to % c. Toasted almond slivers, if 1 pkg. Onion soup mix desired Y% to %4 green pepper, chopped 1 c. Sour cream Method: Mix all ingredients together with the exception of the sour cream and almonds. Put in a 2 quart capacity casserole. Cover with lid or foil and bake in a moderate oven for 2-214 hours, or until rice is cooked and moisture absorbed. It may be necessary to add more water. Toward the end of the cooking period stir in sour cream and sprinkle toasted almonds over the top; keep warm. May be made in advance or reheated. Serve as a starchy vegetable or as a base for creamed fish or chicken. Water chestnut slices may be added.. Serves 10 to 15. May be frozen for a short period. FEDERAL HEIGHTS CINNAMON ROLLS 2 cakes compressed or 2 pkgs. Granular yeast 2% tsp. Salt 14, c. Warm water 1 c. Warm water YZ c. Soft shortening soft butter % c. Sugar cinnamon 3 whole eggs sugar for sprinkling on dough 44 to 5c. All-purpose flour Method: Dissolve yeast cakes in 14 c. Warm water. In electric mixer (or mix by hand) put soft shortening and sugar; cream well. Beat in eggs, one at a time. Measure 41% c. Sifted flour and mix with the salt. Add dry ingredients alternately with 1 c. Lukewarm water, and softened yeast. Last of dry ingredients will have to be beaten in by hand. Dough will be much softer than for regular rolls; will be more of a stiff batter consistency. Add additional flour if necessary. Put in greased or plastic bowl, cover tightly, and store in refrigerator. Leave either for a few hours or from about 12-24 hours. If left for a few hours let begin to rise before refrigerating. Divide dough in three portions; flour slightly. Roll from 1%, to % inch thick, depending on size desired, keeping corners square. Spread with soft butter, sugar, and cinnamon (keep cinnamon mild). Roll up jelly roll fashion, cut in 1 inch pieces and put in individual muffin tins, buttering tops. Let rise for about 2 to 214 hours, depending on temperature. Bake in 400 degree oven for about 15 minutes. Do not overbake. Makes about 50 medium-sized cinnamon rolls. This dough also makes delicious plain rolls in various shapes. Freezes well. BREAKFAST FOR THE CHILDREN Late summer can be fun for the children also with a breakfast party of their own. In addition, it provides an opportunity to develop little social skills. Children love "theme" parties; they delight in bright colors and attractive settings; they adore surprises and a variety of appealing shapes and garnishes. BACK-TO-SCHOOL BREAKFAST Blushing Apples Humpty Dumpty in a Nest Turtle Pancakes Honey Butter Butter Maple Syrup Milk Apples and slates carry out the theme of this rather simple break- 690 COME FOR BREAKFAST fast. A manzanita branch is painted white, and artificial, shiny red apples are fastened to it. A slate nestles among the apples. Apple place mats of bright red terry cloth, machine finished around the edges and with snap-on felt stems and leaves, are a boon to busy mothers. They are so practical. Napkins are of the same matching fabric. The slate place cards, made of black construction paper and edged with large overcasting stitches of white yarn, are stuck in a schoolboy apple to be taken home. The menu is one which should please mothers and children alike. The blushing apples with gumdrop or mint leaves can be done the day before, bacon can be partially cooked and placed in the greased muffin tins, and the flannel pancake batter mixed. Flannel pancakes, leavened with yeast, are a scone-type griddlecake. Young fry dote on animal pancakes, and a little practice will enable you, as well as the children, to produce a whimsical facsimile of the real thing. Turtles, bunnies, cats, and gingerbread-shaped boys and girls are some of children's favorites. Honey-butter, two-thirds honey and one-third butter, beaten fluffy with an electric beater, is a taste-treat. HUMPTY DUMPTY IN A NEST Line bacon-greased muffin tins or ramekins with lean bacon which has been shghtly pan broiled. Break an egg into saucer and slip into the center of each. Season with salt and pepper, if desired. Cover with 1 tablespoon sweet or sour cream, or a topping of grated cheese or buttered crumbs may be used. Bake in a 325 degree oven for about 15 or 20 minutes, or until eggs are set. Serve at once. FLANNEL PANCAKES (Turtles) lc. Milk, scalded 1 c. Lukewarm water 2 tbsp. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Melted shortening 1 tsp. Salt _ 2 eggs, well beaten 1 cake compressed yeast or 1 pkg. Granular yeast 2Y, c. Sifted flour Method: Scald milk, add sugar and salt; cool to lukewarm. Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water and add to cooled milk. Add melted shor_ning, well-beaten eggs, and flour. Beat thoroughly to make a smooth batter. Cover and let rise in warm place for about one hour. Stir well and bake on hot greased griddle. Makes about 18 turtle pancakes, depending on size. For overnight method: Use 1 tsp. Or 14 pkg. Granular yeast, or 14 cake of compressed yeast. Also use an additional 14 tsp. Salt. Cover and let stand overnight in a cool place. Do not place in refrigerator. Proceed as above. BLUSHING APPLES 6 medium-sized eating apples (hold shape better than cooking variety) 1 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 3 c. Water YY, to % ec. Red cinnamon candies, or red coloring may be used Method: Peel apples and remove core from each end with an apple corer. Make syrup of remaining ingredients, add apples, and cook until slightly transparent and tender, turning carefully to distribute color. Let stand in syrup until ready to serve. May be served as a fruit course, as part of the main course, as dessert with whipped cream, or stuffed as a salad. Makes 6 servings. Apples are very attractive also cut into rings. Those waning summer mornings are for remembering. Treat your friends or dear ones to a delicious breakfast or brunch. 691 Pearl Turley Frost Combines Art and Artistry Pearl Turley Frost, Snowflake, Arizona, makes quilts, crochets, knits, makes dolls and artificial flowers, and designs many other types of gifts and bazaar handicrafts. Her paintings of mountains and desert scenes, and of animals, are outstanding, and they grace many homes and public buildings in the Snowflake area. Her quilts represent a variety of designs in colorful applique and patchwork. She has crocheted and knitted ornate tablecloths and bedspreads, and her crocheted aprons have been in great demand for Relief Society bazaars. In her younger days, she was an active leader in 4-H Club work, and was one of the first women in Arizona to take her 4-H girls to a national competition in New York City. One of her most artistic hobbies is the making and decorating of wedding cakes and birthday cakes. On one occasion, President Heber J. Grant happened to be in Snowflake on his birthday, and Mrs. Frost made and decorated a large cake for the birthday party. At the age of eighty, she still attends her Church meetings, including Relief Society. All but one of her nine children are still living, and she finds great comfort and companionship in her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. 692 Relief Society Activities I ead Bakersfield Stake (California) Soloists at Singing Mothers Concert April 9, 1965 Standing, left to right: Maurine Russell, stake literature class leader, and her mother, Barbara Gabbitas, stake Education Counselor, who sang a duet "Come, Mallika" from the opera "Lakme" by Delibes; Nancy Jones who played two flute selections; seated at the piano: Bonnie Newman who sang two soprano solos, "My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice," from "Samson and Delilah" by Saint-Saens, and "My Favorite Things" by Rogers. Beryl Lewis, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "Stake chorister Jean Beesley prepared a beautiful program that gave many of our talented sisters an opportunity to perform and delight an appreciative audience. This year's concert was called 'Golden Notes.' The chorus of forty-five Singing Mothers was made up of sisters from five wards in Bakersfield, and this year we had several sisters from Porterville. Patricia Boatman, stake organist, accompanied the group. The presentations were varied and ranged from the dignity of Bach to the freshness of Mancini's 'Moon River.' A series of mountain ballads contrasted with the spirited 'Skip to My Lou.' A group of nine sang a special triple trio. Our Singing Mothers have been called upon to sing at the last three quarterly conferences. They have had a concert yearly for four years. We are truly proud of them." 693 SEPTEMBER 1965 Hillside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers fe Present Music For Stake Quarterly Con erence March 1965 Leah 0od, P esident, Hillside Stake Relief Society, Stands at th right (Wearing Suit); next to resident Wo re he ounselors Luan G €nderson and Elda ergesen: Choristey Hel Over (in Polka dot Tess) third from the left on ef OW; next to Sist Grover Is Ly p eesley © organist, and pianist Mely. Joh i ister reports: « se Sisters hav Ziven Willing] of their time and talents dur ng the Past year, to bring and; Plration + I] fortunat enough to hea them Their Most recent 4PPpearg were at the Stake quar. Terly Conference in Match, and at the gt ke Relj £ Societ 'F. Emembery' on May 14th eir rendition f 'Americ the Beautifyy Could not help but build Pride an devotion for this great Nation Y changeq th: n, tempo, to Sing 'Abide With Me,' hearts were truly filled With love and longing for our Savior." Las Vegas Stake (Nevada) Relief Society Presidency Presents Award e eachin Or 100 Pe, Cent Visiting T iS to Las Vegas Ninth Ward April 7, 1965 Left to right: Helen C. King, Work Counselor, Las Vegas Stake Relief Societ > Doroth J. Thue » Educa ion Couns Or; Tleann: Peterson, President: Sister Peterson reports: "Sister Winn challenged the forty-six Visiting teachers, asa Speciag] birthday gift to the Stake Relieg Society, to have 100 Per cent Visiting teaching for March 1965, The Ninth Ward has 184 families and twenty-three districts. I Visiting i 1 1 was Marie Flowers' eighty-second birthday, and she Was specially honoreq 4S One of the Visiting teachers Who had helped to attain the 100 Per cent 8oal, She has More than forty years to her Credit as a Visiting teacher. The day Preciation and Presented to Sister Winn a beautify] cake made in the Shape of an Easter rabbit, since the Meeting Was just before Easter." > Ware -aSS See) o Ue ie =v 695 sea1wers SEPTEMBER 1965 Carbon Stake (Utah), Festive Foods Displayed at Leadership Meeting November 1964 Helen E. Bunnell, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "An outstanding display of 'Festive Foods' was shown at the November 1964 leadership meeting. Under the direction of Theresa Frandsen, work meeting leader, and Eloise World, Work Counselor, each ward in the stake prepared an exhibit showing how creative artistry in food preparation and display can highlight any holiday occasion. "Each display was original and beautiful, the result of many hours of planning and preparation. Some wards furnished recipes with the food displayed on their tables, and others offered samples of the 'goodies.' "This was a most delightful and worthwhile occasion, an opinion concurred in by the sisters present and also the members of the Priesthood who were invited in to see and sample the exhibits, following their meeting in the same building." The display represented by the picture was arranged on a round table covered with a lovely rose-colored cloth, fringed in white. A graceful bough and fern leaves, sprayed in white, made an attractive centerpiece. The foods displayed were wrapped in cellophane and tied with ribbon so that they made an appetizing display. East Phoenix Stake (Arizona), Fifth, Eleventh, and Paradise Valley Wards Combined Evening Session Relief Society Assembled for Work Meeting April 1965 Standing back of the sisters from the Phoenix Fifth Ward, Eleventh Ward, and Paradise Valley Ward evening session of Relief Society, are leaders of Phoenix Eleventh Ward Relief Society (the "hostess" ward for this meeting), left to right: Second Counselor Edna Young; President Lucille Carruth; First Counselor Marjorie Gardner; Secretary-Treasurer Elsie Lamz; work meeting leader Marian Free; Lois L. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Sister Tanner reports: "Realizing that over one-third of the women of our stake are employed outside their homes, Stake President Glenn A. Jones sensed that these sisters, too, needed the strengthening influence and blessings of Relief Society. Our stake now has three evening session Relief Societies, each one in a multiple situation being administered according to the procedure outlined by the General Board. Through this program, in a situation where multiple wards in one meeting house make it necessary to combine the evening session, we are able to see the 'extending' of Relief Society, and we have found by consistently observing evening session Relief Societies, in addition to separate daytime sessions, that there are certain important ingredients necessary for their success. Probably most vital of all is that the plan must be carried out under the direction of the Priesthood. Another necessity is that there be enthusiastic, devoted ward presidencies and class leaders--women who recognize that their callings include all of the sisters of the wards. Phoenix Eleventh Ward evening session Relief Society brought to their sisters a highly successful 'plastic grape' project, represented in the picture." 696 SEPTEMBER 1965 ( tah), set. George Eighth War, resents "Old Ountry Store' t Birt i lay Observance March 1965 St. George Stake U Cc Standing on ¢ Douglas. He Platform > Standing; § ln front ere: Sariah Lewis, Castle Gate IV€ service: Olive Nelson (in Polka q Spring Glen Wa T years of 100 p e insky, Preside en Joyed, and elief Society Presentation "Beyo the Price lesseq"' and " > Was ve Second r Singing Moth e Bridge Builder." A I 8iven Corsages and €cond Warg a nniversary Party March 16, 19 Honors Visiting Teachers 65 698 d, twenty-fo r Per cent Armen, ettee mr ae THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 67 — The Law, Man, and the Universe (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:36-75) For First Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To realize the value of a reign of law in the universe, and to learn how man may benefit himself eternally by obedience to law. INTRODUCTION The last two lessons have come from Section 88, known as the "Olive Leaf." The revelation began with a discusson of the Holy Ghost and the "light of Christ." Following this information, the Church is instructed in matters relating to the resurrection of man and the earth being the eventual habitat of celestialized beings. ALL KINGDOMS HAVE A LAW Law and order exist in all of God's creations. In this revelation, the Lord informs the reader that 'All kingdoms have a law given" (D&C 88:36). This truth pertains to the universe 'for there is no space in the which there is no kingdom."' These kingdoms have their laws in which 700 there are bounds and conditions. (Verses 37-38.) These thoughts led President Anthon H. Lund to indicate the value of this reign of law in the universe: We believe that everything is ruled by law. We are thankful that it is so, for otherwise we would live in a world of chance, in a fearful uncertainty of what would happen next. I believe that the material laws that can be traced in the creation had an intelligent will behind them, that the laws themselves were never superior to the will of God. He made those laws, and by His power they became effective to accomplish His purposes (Conference Report, April 1916, page 12). These ideas help us to understand that in a_ world-system comprised of worlds or even in a minute particle of matter, there is order. If the conditions under which we exist were to be less than orderly, then confusion, uncertainty, doubt, and even despair, would be found. On the other hand, as the Lord has said, "all kingdoms have a law" and the laws govern; consequently, when a man lives a law the blessings or benefits of that law are his. Therefore, the Lord declares that all beings who abide in the law are justified because they cleave unto principles (laws) which bring them nearer to God. (Verse 39.) Man discovers that violation of eternal law brings greater influence to bear upon him in continuing to do wrong. No greater truth was spoken than found in verse 40 of Section 88, upon which President Charles W. Penrose had this to say about the attraction of evil to evil and virtue to virtue:... If we do evil, evil impressions come naturally, and if we love to do good a good influence, a good spirit, is with us, and round about us, and in our being and we are sustained and supported thereby; and if we are corrupt and wicked and abominable and rebellious, the effects of our acts are right in our nature, and these things will be disclosed just as naturally as the opening of books made of paper and written upon with ink (Conference Report, April 1917, page 18). GOD IS IN ALL THINGS In Lesson 65 (Relief Society Magazine, July 1965) consideration was given to the manner by which God, though personal, having form and of tangible substance, is able to be in constant communication with his creations and is everywhere, as the scriptures aver. (Psalms 139:7-12; Acts 17:27-28.) God is everywhere by the "light of Christ." LESSON DEPARTMENT (D&C 88:6-13; 84:44-47.) Be. Cause of God's omnipresence through this spirit, the Lord said that he is through all things, all things are round about him, he is in all things, and all things are before him. (Ibid. 88:41.) Not only is God omnipresent, but he is also omniscient. He knows all things. (J bid., verse 41.) The present is before his eyes, as the past may be, as well as the future. Latter-day Saints have a statement in the Lectures on Faith given in Kirtland to the School of the Prophets concerning the necessity of understanding that God possesses all of his attributes in perfection.... God is the only supreme governor and independent being in whom all fulness and perfection dwell; who is omnipotent [all-powerful], omnipresent [everywhere present] and omniscient [all-knowing]; without beginning of days or end of life; and that in him every good gift and every good principle dwell... (Lecture Second, page 18). - without the knowledge of all things, God would not be able to save any portion of his creatures; for it is by reason of the knowledge which he has of all things, from the beginning to the end, that enables him to give that understanding to his creatures by which they are made partakers of eternal life; and if it were not for the idea existing in the minds of men that God had all knowledge it would be impossible for them to exercise faith in him (Lecture Fourth, page 43). JOSEPH SMITH INSPIRED Elder Orson Pratt called attention to verses 42 through 68 of Section 88 as evidence that Joseph Smith, who had little formal schoolroom education, and while but a youth, was Inspired to give information concerning the reign 701 SEPTEMBER 1965 of law in the universe, that other worlds are inhabited, and that it is man's opportunity to be in harmony with eternal law. Brother Pratt said:... Yet these words were given to him, and they contain information and knowledge far beyond that which you will find recorded in the writings of the learned, information expressed so simply that a common mind can, in some degree, grasp it, and yet so sublime and so great that when we come to investigate its depths, it requires greater powers and greater understanding than what man naturally possesses.... -.. We are also told that God is in the stars, those worlds so distant from ours, those great centers around which, no doubt, millions on millions of opaque bodies revolve as our planets revolve around our central body, the sun; that he is in those Stars, that he is their light, and the power by which they are governed; or to come home directly to our earth, he is in the earth, and is the power and light and glory that is attached to the elements of our globe. This would seem to exhibit before us the nature of that Being whom we worship. We worship him because of his glory, greatness, goodness, justice, mercy, knowledge, and wisdom. We worship him, because he has the power to govern and control the universe, and because he has commanded us so to do. He isa personage... (Journal of Discourses, 17:324). The Lord likened the various kingdoms (worlds) to a parable in which the owner of a field sent his servants into the field at a different hour, even to the twelfth servant, and then the Lord visited each one of his servants at an appointed time. Each servant received the light of the Lord's countenance in the hour in which he was visited. (D&C 88: 42-60.) Then the revelation represents 702 the parable as applying to other worlds and their inhabitants: Therefore, unto this parable I will liken all these kingdoms, and the inhabitants thereof—every kingdom in its hour, and in its time, and in its season, even according to the decree which God hath made (D&C 88:61). We know by revelation that the Lord's creations are numerous. (Moses 1:33-35; 7:30.) In their time each is to be visited by the Lord that the inhabitants thereof will find the joy and blessing of the light which only he can give to them. In the sermon quoted above from Elder Pratt, we learn that our own earth will be visited by the Lord during the time prophesied as the millennium. As pointed out in the revelations, he shall reign upon the earth for the thousand years. (Ibid., 7:6465; D&C 43:29-30.) Thus, from world to world will the Lord visit the pure in heart, who make up Zion. (lbid., 97:21.) Elder Pratt discourses further concerning subsequent events relative to these creations. But there is another thing I want you to understand. This will not be kept up to all eternity, it is merely a preparation for something still greater. And what is that? By and by, when each of these creations has fulfilled the measure and bounds set and the times given for its continuance in a temporal state, it and its inhabitants who are worthy will be made celestial and glorified together. Then, from that time henceforth and for ever, there will be no intervening veil between God and his people who are sanctified and glorified, and he will not be under the necessity of withdrawing from one to go and visit another, because they will all be in his presence. It matters not how far in space these creations may be located from any special celestial kingdom where the Lord our God shall dwell, they will be able to see him at all times. Why? Because it is only the fall, and the vail that has been shut down over this creation, that keep us from the presence of God. Let the vail be removed, which now hinders us from beholding the glory of God and the celestial kingdom; let this creation be once perfected, after having passed through its various ordeals, after having enjoyed the light of the countenance of our Lord, in our hour and in our season, and let all things be perfected and glorified, and there will be no necessity for this vail being shut down (Journal of Discourses, 17: 332). Who are these inhabitants of other worlds? The revelations are clear in this regard. These inhabitants "are begotten sons and daughters unto God" (D&C 76: 24). PRAYERS ARE ANSWERED As indicated in last month's lesson, through the "light of Christ" men are endowed with conscience, and their ability to come to the fulness of the gospel is determined largely by their response to the light they have received. If a person will seek the Lord earnestly, the Lord has promised to draw close to him. (D&C 88:63.) If he asks for things that are not expedient for him, it shall turn to his condemnation. (Verses 64-65.) Consequently, the Lord has admonished his children to call upon him in sincere prayer that they may know his will concerning them. Prayer is not intended, said President Joseph Fielding Smith, to gratify some desire which may not be the best for us. Actually, we should not be too insistent or demanding of the Father for our own wishes, but seek for light to know the will of the Lord. (Church History and Modern Revelation 1:371.) = LESSON DEPARTMENT The Lord knows our needs better than we do. His vantage point is vastly different from ours. If Latter-day Saints would seek to learn the Lord's will concerning themselves and live by that knowledge, then the scripture would be fulfilled promising that their prayers would be answered. (D&C 88:64.) TRUTH IS ETERNAL Among the many great truths in the Doctrine and Covenants are those expressed in the following verse: Behold, that which you hear is as the voice of one crying in the wilderness—in the wilderness, because you cannot see him—my voice, because my voice is Spirit; my Spirit is truth; truth abideth and hath no end; and if it be in you it shall abound (D&C 88:66). We are shut out of the immediate presence of God, therefore, we are in a "wilderness." We can, however, hear the voice of the Lord through his Spirit, which is truth. There follows in the revelation a statement that truth is absolute. Truth is eternal—it has no end! It does not change. Man's conception of a truth may change, but this does not affect the truth. The fundamental principles of the gospel remain the same. They do not change. The principles that will sanctify people in the past will sanctify the people of our dispensation. Elder James E. Talmage asked the following question and then answered it:... Have you ever found a single passage in Holy Writ that indicates in the least degree any revision or alteration of the fundamental laws and principles of the gospel? Have you ever found it necessary for God to 703 SEPTEMBER 1965 amend Himself and His words? Men make constitutions and enact laws, and then have to repeal and alter them, but the fundamental laws of truth are eternal; they will never be amended, they will never be changed. As declared to Adam, so is it declared unto the world today: Except ye have faith in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, as the one and only Saviour and Redeemer of mankind; except ye repent of your sins with a real and genuine repentance; except ye be baptized by immersion in water, at the hands of one having authority, and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost by the authorized laying on of hands, there is no possibility of your finding place in the kingdom of God.... You have never learned of any revision, amendment to or alteration in the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in the form of the Church. Like the gospel itself, the Church adapts itself to the necessities of the times, to the conditions of life, but without the alteration of a single vital principle revealed of God (Conference Report, October 1918, pp. 60-61). KEEP YOUR MINDS SINGLE TO GOD "If your eye is single to my glory," and "sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God," are keys to successful Latter-day Saint living as indicated in these verses: And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things. Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will (D&C 88:67-68). Does the instruction to keep one's mind single to God mean that all of one's thoughts should be about God? This does not seem reasonable, in view of one's 704 responsibility to care for children, earn a livelihood, and the multitudinous other things that require concentration and attention during a day. But do we as a people think enough about real issues in life, or is our attention on less important things? President Joseph F. Smith decried the many hours spent by Latter-day Saints on matters which are wasteful when more important matters might be considered:... Think of it, how many hours, how many days and months we spend, as the children of God, in the pursuit of the temporalities of life, in devoting our thoughts to those things which pertain to the present temporal life or existence, not the spiritual existence, or that portion or particular part of the temporal existence which pertains to, and is a part of, the spiritual existence of man. Men and women talk, they use their tongues and their lips very much in conversation and in the expressions of their views and thoughts which pertain only to worldly things, to trivial matters, of no value, to the groveling things, so to speak, of the world, and devote very few moments to useful and uplifting thought and very few words comparatively, are spoken by them which pertain to the eternal, everlasting growth, development and happiness of mankind. We think of the world, of the present... More in regard to the temporalities of life, than we think about the principles of eternal truth that make for the salvation, happiness and well-being, temporally and spiritually, of our souls (Conference Report, October 1913, page 3). Single to God? Two suggestions follow as helps: (1) Undertake the daily practice of studying the scriptures, alone, or with your husband or family. A_ regular, systematic practice of study will be of great worth in accomplishing this objective and in bringing a spiritual influence into the home. (2) To bring one to a realization of basic truth concerning himself and his relationship to God, every Latter-day Saint might often ask himself these three fundamental questions: Where did I come from? Why am I here? What shall be my place in the future life? LET YOUR EYE BE SINGLE TO MY GLORY It is the will of the Lord that the Latter-day Saints apply their minds faithfully to understand his will. President Lorenzo Snow, after reminding the saints that Jesus was dependent upon the Father and he sought "but the will of the Father" (John 5:30), applied this principle in the following way:... Our eye should be single to the glory of God. That is what we have left the other life for and come into this. We should seek to promote the interests of the Most High God, and to feel as Jesus felt, "I can of mine own self do nothing." Inasmuch as we act today and tomorrow, this week and next week, in the interest of God, and have our eye single to His glory, there can be no failure.... A man's mind should be single to the glory of God in everything that he starts to accomplish (Millennial Star 56: 451-452). If each member of the Church were to follow this counsel, truly, the heavens would be opened to him, for all mysteries would be unveiled, even the wonders of heaven. (D&C 76:5-10.) Then the promise of the Lord would be fulfilled, wherein he said that by continuing in God, more light is received, "and that light groweth brighter and brighter until the perfect day" (Ibid., 50:24). LESSON DEPARTMENT IDLE THOUGHTS AND LOUD LAUGHTER Twice in Section 88 association of laughter, idle thoughts, and light-mindedness is made. Remember the great and last promise which IT have made unto you; cast away your idle thoughts and your excess of laughter far from you. Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings (D&C 88:69, 121). Does the Lord condemn laughter and expect his saints to be sober and serious all of the time? Upon other occasions, he has counseled that one should have a "glad heart and a cheerful countenance" (Ibid., 59:15) and receive merriment in the dance, song, and music. (Ibid., 136:28.) If one reads carefully the scriptures quoted above, he will be impressed with the ideas which are associated with "loud" or "excess" of laughter—idle thoughts, lustful desires, pride, lightmindedness, and wicked doings. Unseemly and boisterous conduct at any time is out of harmony with the Spirit of the Lord. Laughter motivated by impure thoughts, lightmindedness toward sacred things, and unseemly conduct are condemned by the Lord, yet, happiness, joy, and cheerfulness are earmarks of the saint. PURIFY YOUR HEARTS The elders who had been called to testify and warn this generation were to return to Kirtland to receive instructions and to be endowed that they might go forth with greater zeal to build up the Church upon the earth. (D&C 88:70-73.) 705 SEPTEMBER 1965 Consistent with this charge, these "first laborers" were to purify their hearts, and, by their delivering their message to this people, they were to be clean from the blood of this generation. (Verses 74-75.) President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Has given some thoughts to sober our thinking in the realization that we should purify our hearts:... Clean hands—clean of defilement of our fellow men, clean from the goods of our fellow men, clean from the blood of our fellow men; that must be the cleanliness which must be ours. Pure hearts—pure before the Lord; greed and lust and covetousness banished from our hearts, standing pure before God, that he may look therein and see there nothing which would cause him pain, and nothing which would make us blush. I have often said: "I wonder how we would all stand, and individually how I would stand, if I were told that God was yonder in the mountain and I could go to him if I wished." I wonder if my life has been such that I could go and stand before the Being who could look me through and see my secret thoughts and hopes and ambitions. Unless and until, my brothers and sisters, we could stand that test, we are not living as the Lord would have us live (Conference Report, October, 1935, pp. 90-91). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the value of the concept of a reign of law throughout the universe? 2. What does Joseph Smith say is the need for accepting the truth that God knows all things? 3. What is the meaning of the parable of the master and his servants in Section 88:42-61? - 4. According to the lesson, what is of major importance in having one's prayers answered? 5. Discuss the two practices, which, if followed, will assist one to keep his mind single to God? 6. What is the blessing to be received by those whose "mind is single to God," and whose "eye is single to God's glory'? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 67 — "'See That Ye Love One Another; Cease to Be Covetous; Learn to Impart One to Another As the Gospel Requires' (D&C 88:123). For First Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To show that love is the most important ingredient of an abundant life. The charge we have been given to love one another is, without doubt, one of the greatest of the Lord's commandments. He him- 706 self described it as the second great commandment only superseded by the charge to love the Lord. We all remember the incident described in the scriptures when the lawyer of the Pharisees asked Jesus the question, tempting him, saying, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law?" Jesus answered, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Matt. 22:37-39). Why is this the greatest of all commandments? Why do all the laws and the prophets hang on this commandment? Why did Jesus say, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you'? (John 13:34). The obvious answer to these questions is that true love fulfills all other commandments. A person who really loves the Lord would not think of taking his name in vain nor of having any other gods before him. If one truly loves another, he would not steal from him and, certainly, not covet what he has. He would be, moreover, sympathetic, understanding, kind, generous, -. Cour-. Teous, unselfish, of good temper and sincere. For, as the apostle Paul wrote: "Charity. Suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth 'not; charity vaunteth not itself, - isnot puffed up, Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not 'easily provoked, thinketh no evil" (I Cor. 13:4-5). In addition, through true love, all of us would "impart. One to another as the gospel requires." Paul classifies love as_ the greatest of all influences. After describing the gifts of the spirit, LESSON DEPARTMENT and the power of faith, and contrasting charity (love) with eloquence, prophecy and all knowledge, he says that charity is greater than all of these. (I Cor. 13:1-3.) How can we learn to keep this commandment to love one another? In answer to this question, someone has_ remarked, "You learn to speak by speaking, to study by studying, to run by running, and just so, you learn to love by loving." If any of us should find it difficult to develop and express our love for someone else, we might begin by thinking about all of the good qualities the person possesses and practice these same virtues in our association with him or her. As the Prophet Joseph Smith once said, "It is a time-honored adage that love begets love. Let us pour forth love —show forth our kindness unto all mankind, and the Lord. Will reward us with 'everlasting increase; cast our bread upon the waters and we shall receive it after many days, increased to a hundredfold" (DHC V:517). When one truly loves he gets love in return; moreover he builds, strengthens, purifies, and ennobles his own character and motivates similar attributes in the person loved. This thought was beautifully 'expressed in a poem entitled "Love.". I love you, Not only for what you are, But for what I am When I am with you. I love you, Not only for what You have made of yourself, But for what, You are making of me. 707 SEPTEMBER 1965 I love you, For the part of me That you bring out... And for drawing out Into the light All the beautiful belongings That no one else had looked Quite far enough to find. I love you because you Are helping me to make Of the lumber of my life Not a tavern But a temple; Out of the works Of my every day Not a reproach But a song.... (Author unknown) If we truly wish an abundant life, we must fill it abundantly with love. Love is the secret of health and happiness. It is the essence of faith, hope, and charity. Love is the greatest thing in the world. Most important, it is readily available to each of us. All we need to do is to reach out and practice it. Let us strive constantly to "love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires." Suggested cross references for the mothers in the home to the Family Home Evening Manual: Lesson 18— "Jesus Taught Us to Love Our Father in Heaven," page 138; Lesson 19 — "Jesus Taught Us to Love As He Loves," page 147; Lesson 20 — "Jesus Taught Us to Love. One Another," page 158. WORK MEETING Molding a Happy Life Winnifred C. Jardine (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness For Second Meeting, December 1965 Objective: To discuss the need of improving one's power of It is important for mothers to take a "little walk around themselves," to hear themselves as others hear them. Today, let's talk about ten hobgoblins of speech that, in spite of us, seem to creep into our lives. By recognizing them, we can persist in efforts to weed them out, 708 expression as an asset to happiness. Making room for seeds of happiness to flourish. 1. Poor Grammar Of all people, Latter-day Saints should make an effort to improve their speech grammatically, especially because we are a "speaking people." Incorrect grammatical 'i expressions used within the home become such a deep part of the children's speech that it is almost impossible for English teachers to correct them. Three commonly used errors in grammar are: I seen (saw) You was (were) It don't (doesn't) 2. Slang Expressions Latter-day Saints should never swear nor use vulgar language and should be careful in the use of slang expressions, for they are crutches for a crippled vocabulary. 3. Loud Talking A sage bit of advice for family members is this: Speak not loudly to each other unless the house is on fire. Soft, gentle tones are always appropriate, and if they are used by parents in the home, like bread cast upon the water, they will come back to them. Family members should resist the temptation to shout from room to room; if something is worth saying, it is worth the short walk. Brigham Young, who recognized the unladylike quality of shouting, installed in his home in the early days, tubes from floor to floor for communication purposes. As for shouting in anger, he quoted from scripture: "A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger" (Proverbs 15:1). 4. Nagging This is an ugly-sounding word with an ugly meaning. Irritation by persistent scolding and urging can dampen happiness in any home. Repeating things over and over is a bad habit. If a thing is LESSON DEPARTMENT said once or twice and must be adhered to, then action should follow. Otherwise, let the matter drop. | 5. Interrupting This practice can _ spread through a family like wildfire and should be stamped out before it gets out of control. From infancy, children should be taught to refrain from interrupting a conversation, and the best teacher is example. Not only does this mean interrupting a conversation within the room or on the phone, but also interrupting one who is studying or reading. Let adults always remember, too, that to talk while entering a room or a group may not only be interrupting but destroy the spirit of communion that may exist. 6. Quarreling This matter slips into homes unbidden, and parents can be drawn into it almost without realizing it. Brigham Young said: "TI will give you a few words... That you may have children that are not... Quarrelsome. Always be good-natured yourselves. Never allow yourselves to become out of temper." A good antidote for quarreling is putting children to work. 7. Hurtful Retorts Mothers should exercise every power to keep hurtful words from passing between members of the family. Each time these words slip out, they make it easier the next time, and once they are said, they can never be retracted and permanent damage may result. One of President McKay's most persistent messages to members of the Church is the need for 709 SEPTEMBER 1965 courtesy and consideration in the home. Hurtful words are darts thrown by Satan to destroy the sanctity of the home, and _parents should avoid the use of them. 8. Gossiping If they are engaged as they shouldbe, Latter-day Saints would not have free time for gossiping. In fact, if they are in the right spirit, they would refrain from speaking unkindly about anyone. "Nay, speak no ill; a kindly word can never leave a sting behind; and, oh, to breathe each tale we've heard is far beneath a noble mind.". 9. Criticism Criticism, unless it is constructive, is eroding, wearing away at the character of the innocent, but even more at the one who criticizes. Let words of criticism never escape our lips, for once they do, more surely will follow. 10. Talking Too Much In the busyness and fullness of a mother's day, it is a temptation indeed to talk as hard and fast as she works. Happiness within a home often results from simple silence. "The factor of omission is often important in human relations," wrote Alex Osborne of advertising fame (Your Creative Power, page 211). It is well to ask ourselves, "What could be left unsaid?" To keep all of these things in mind all the time is difficult. Why not try to work at it as Benjamin Franklin did with his Thirteen Virtues, concentrating on one virtue each week, but marking himself on all? The important thing is that we set good examples for our children. Like a mirror, our children reflect back to us exactly what we are. We will view the reflection with pride or shame, depending upon the example we set. SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 12 — Home Is a Harbor For Third Meeting, December 1965. Objective: To emphasize the influence of the mother within her home in keeping the observance of Christmas in het with its spiritual significance. INTRODUCTION This December lesson will focus our thinking upon life values which are closely linked with 710 those relating to Christmas. The blessings of motherhood, the joy of sharing, the love and understanding which can make a home a place of peace, are all facets of gospel teaching. They also are associated with Christmas. The relationship of the mother to these facets and her influence in preparing the heart and the home for Christmas are the concerns of this lesson. QUESTIONS TO ASK * Which Christmas of your past do you like best to recall? Why is it memorable? Perhaps you already have asked your children the question, "What makes a _ Christmas happy?" If so, do you recall their answers? Did they mention the house decor? The cost of presents? Ask your children over ten years of age, "What do you like best about Christmas at our home?" Their answers to this question may indicate to you the general type of Christmas memories that are being made in your home. Many Christian families: today fear that the real message of Christmas is being submerged in an increasing surge of commercialism. Do you? Since the attitude of the mother is an important factor in creating the general atmosphere of the home, is it possible for her to offset, within her home, this commercialized approach to Christmas? What can she do? Will these suggestions be helpful? 1. Endeavor not to emphasize the monetary value of Christmas gifts (and still be practical about money to be spent). 2. Emphasize the spiritual aspect of Christmas by general attitude and by specific comments. 3. Engage in activities of service to others in which the children may participate. LESSON DEPARTMENT BUILDING CHRISTMAS TRADITIONS Traditions that originate in the festive Christmas celebration may create happy memories, but they have significance only when they illumine the "human spirit" with love and faith. They have real significance as they acknowledge Jesus of Nazareth as the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. Since Latter-day Saints firmly believe that this is true, surely every Latter-day Saint mother will want this truth to be central in the Christmas memories her children will carry throughout their lives. If specific family activities, carried out each year, are added to this central theme, a family Christmas tradition may be built which will enrich the memory of all family members. How may this be accomplished? Suggestion: 1. Of first importance will be the actual gospel teachings planned and outlined in the Family Home Evening Manual, for they remind all that Jesus Christ is our Savior and remind all (see lesson 46) that the Christmas celebration is in memory of his birth and mission. 2. By carrying out each year, such special family activities as the following: a. Having the children trim, or help in the trimming of the Christmas tree. B. Having the story of the first Christmas night read from the scriptures on Christmas Eve. C. Hanging up the Christmas stockings. D. Singing Christmas carols. E. Retelling of favorite family experiences relating to Christmas. F. The boxing of cookies and the making of special foods to be given to neighbors or farther-away friends. Many other activities might be added, for Christmas family customs vary widely in different countries. What special Christ- 71 SEPTEMBER 1965 mas activities were carried out yearly in your home? What special Christmas activities do you carry out in your own home today? PREPARING THE HEART FOR CHRISTMAS Many mothers may feel that they know what the principles of the gospel are. All, however, may need to be reminded, often, in order to keep these principles in mind. All may need the motivation that direct suggestions for application of the principles can give. The Christmas season offers opportunity for an evaluation of the general atmosphere of our homes. It is a good time to be reminded that through concrete, though often small ways and acts, gospel truths are made active in our lives. Many commandments, generally familiar to us, may be given new and special meaning as the family makes preparation for the celebration of Christmas. The mother holds a central position in the family preparation for Christmas. If she is to help family members to approach' Christmas with an attitude which is in harmony with its spiritual message, she, too, must be in harmony with this message. Many mothers already may be carrying out the activities suggested in this lesson and many similar suggestions. Perhaps all Latter-day Saint mothers, however, may profit by being reminded of certain attitude-building commandments and how important their own attitudes are at this season. Is it possible that social engagements, special Christmas decorations, innumerable household 712 details may crowd out the real spirit of Christmas? Even make of Christmas a burden instead of a blessing? May some engagements need to be canceled or postponed? THE SCRIPTURES LEAD THE WAY How may the mother's attitude be kept in harmony with the real spirit of Christmas? Would being reminded by the following commandments be helpful? The scriptures lead the way. SCRIPTURE This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you (John 15:12). Although we cannot comprehend the extent and fulness of God's love, we know that it blesses each moment of our lives; we know that love is the very heart of the gospel of his Son, Jesus Christ. We know that love for one another is an indispensable factor for happiness. SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Plan and carry out some kind and unexpected service for a friend or, better still, for someone who is not a particular friend and from whom you expect no service in return. It might be to visit someone who is living alone or who is ill. Share a treasured spiritual experience with someone whose faith is wavering and needs to be strengthened. Invite some person who otherwise would be alone, to share your home at some time during the holiday season. SCRIPTURE "Blessed are the peacemakers... (Matt. 5:9). " The world is much in need of peace. How does an individual acquire that inner peace which fortifies against the turmoil of the world? SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Where prone to speak sharply, speak gently and kindly, remembering that "a soft answer turneth away wrath." Mend a quarrel by expressing regret, or by apologizing or in some other way remove the barrier which poor communication may have caused. SCRIPTURE Wherefore, I say unto you, that ye ought to forgive one another; for he that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses standeth condemned before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin (D&C 64:9). At some time or other, all individuals have need of forgiveness from those with whom they associate, and most certainly do they need to be forgiven by our Heavenly Father. We should strive for that divinity referred to in the familiar maxim by Alexander Pope, "To err is human, to forgive divine." SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Forgive an enemy (if you have one). Try to understand the motives and circumstances which caused the estrangement. Tf possible and feasible let your enemy know that he is forgiven. Search your own motives. Perhaps you are partially to blame for the disagreement. SCRIPTURE _.. Cease to be covetous... 88: 123). Perhaps no attitude is a greater deterrent to a joyful Christmas (D&C LESSON DEPARTMENT than that of being covetous. The desire to have as much or more than someone else, or what someone else has, often may apply to an adult as well as to children. It discourages parents when children are not satisfied with what they have. If and when a mother achieves the state of maturity which precludes this undesirable trait, she should help her children to be happy and grateful for what they have and not to want the gifts or possessions of their friends. SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Refrain from saying, "My friend Maude has a much nicer... Than I have—much nicer and more expensive." Even refrain from such wishing (if you can) as, "I wish I had my sister's. - - for I know I shall never have one like it." SCRIPTURE _,. Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive" (Acts 20:35). The ability to share willingly is a character trait which blesses the giver immeasurably. This is a quality which many mothers seem to possess inherently, for they give expression t0 it so naturally, as they constantly share with others. Contrast the facial expression of a woman at a bargain counter as she struggles and reaches in order "to get," "to have," "to receive," with the expression on the face of a woman who is presenting a gift to an individual who is less fortunate, or when she is giving of herself in unselfish service to someone in need. What makes the difference? 713 SEPTEMBER 1965 SUGGESTED ACTIVITY Give to some person who would really appreciate it, something you would really like to keep for yourself. Help children to see the difference between giving as a gift something they do not care to have, and in giving a gift they would enjoy keeping for themselves. Will the effort to comply with. These divine commandments help prepare the mother's heart for Christmas? PREPARING THE HOME FOR CHRISTMAS Preparing the home for Christmas may become an enjoyable, cooperative, and memorable experience, if 1. Adequate plans are made. 2. The project is kept within the financial and time resources of the family. 3. There is cooperation between parents and children. The excitement of making plans for the Christmas Week Family Home Evening, the aroma of holiday cooking, the welcome of holly wreath upon the door, the trimming of the Christmas tree, the wrapping of gifts, all may be an integral part of a child's memory of Christmas. The mother, however, will not want the emphasis tivities, of shepherd and star Christ child, born in a manger. FRAGMENTS FROM THE CHRISTMAS SCENE The following is a fragment of a conversation in a home where the Christmas preparation is not a 714 family project and where the real spirit of Christmas obviously is absent (at least temporarily). House A. The family room. Mother is addressing the last of the Christmas cards. Mother: " 1 surely be glad when Christmas is overWith so many cards to send, shopping for presents, parcels to mail, last minute sewing, and you children going in every direction, with no time even to speak to anyone. Tm already worn out." "Well, what is Christmas for, if not to go places—an get presents, of course?" (Entering preathlessI going to do about Sue? I must give her a year that cost $4." Mother: (Not looking up) "We'll just have to settle that later. Bother me now." Son: (Age twelve) "I hope I get a new bicycle, not a hand-me-down one from Bob. I think Christmas is for NEW presents." Father: "I say it's for paying bills. (Looking gloomily through checkbook.) They'll be mountain high this (Still not looking up) "Everything is So expensive." Father: "And everybody wants more. Do we have to have this and that just because someone else has it?" What does this conversation forecast for the Christmas day atmosphere in House A'? HOME IS A HARBOR House B. It is Christmas day in the Father and Bertie and husban Charles, wit four small children, enter. Bertie: (At the door) "Mother, the tree is beautiful! Simply peautiful! I knew it would be—with red apples. Charles, (Kisses Mother and Father, as children warmly.) you could come, even for a ay. Effort, but it's always worth it to come ho especially at Christ mas." Charles "JT don't think she's ever been away. Our house seems to have Ls " pout the same things here at home— cookies the neighbors an all that. Even our little ones helped with our tree." Father: "Carrying on the family tragitions—that it, daughter?" Mother: "You may take your things Bertie: "why, that was my room. Are the other 'children coming?" "AL of them. Their letters are here. Mary Ellen and Carl and Bertie: "7'm so glad!" Later that evening. All have been singing Christmas carols, with daughter-in-law Margaret at the piano. The Family Home Evening jis over and the grandchildren are now asleep. Amily, for our. "Mother | ls right. There's nothing quite like a family. Just what is a family?" Jim: (Finishing college and unmarried) "Guess you better not look to isn't a dull moment. - "You wouldn't want one." Anthony: ( should—marriage. And the are to be forever. Time, even geologically speaking. Father: "Theres a i immortality 4 parent may right here on earth—seeing how LESSON DEPARTMENT ents take special care about what they b lieve and teach in their homes." Father: "Makes you wonder, 2? SomeCharles (Son-in-law say its @ place tor dispensing pumped-knee bandages. (All laugh.) But speaking seriously, T'll say it's: "If you want a comment from I don't get the job say that home ls 4 place for 'healing your wounds." " Margaret: (Daughter-in-law) a home is a place for love, for children, and tell-it-again stories." I was away at Carl: you re "T say home is a harbor. When almost grown UP out—get rough, you _ son. 1 think 2 home can be a piace of refuge, 4 place of wellief, the children get a pretty good anchor to take with them into deep _ sea. Carl: "Even when you're old—thirty to be exact—it is good to come back home an talk things over. Did you think of my question: "J have your (Takes a letter from smal; He scans What are the it this way—knowledge that there is divine purpose in life; 4 good family; friends to cherish here and here- SEPTEMBER 1965 after; service to one's fellow man and—a modest amount of this world's goods." Mary Ellen: '""We knew from the first what you would say." Jim: (A _ little facetiously) Faith, family, friends, service—and a modest amount of money—theme song for the Martins." Bertie: "We've heard it taught all through the years." Carl: "I know. But it's good to come back to the harbor and hear it again." FOR DISCUSSION Questions in the lesson. FOR HOME DOING Have a joyous Christmas, keeping ever in mind that it is a special day, a holy day, commemorating the birth of the Savior of the world. LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. COOK ELECTRIC a Pots and pans stay ''white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY HAWAIIAN TOUR October — 15 days ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES Nov. 11 Will be time for those who wish to go to temple Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 716 In a few years—a slide rule? Your children who are cleaning erasers for elementary school teachers today will soon be making decisions on their college courses. But Now is the time to prepare financially. Money for advanced education for your children represents a major investment. There is a way to be 5 Ba ready when your children are. Consult your Beneficial agent for expert "Planned Futures" help. Beneficial Life Insurance Company * west so. Iemrte + satt Lar UTAH « "SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS LEARN THE WAY, S. S. A. 200.2.2---2scceeeeees$.30 Shelton (composer of COME, FOLLOW CHRIST, solo)..........60 Scott (composer of FORGIVEN, words by Widtsoe, solo)............ 25 AQUAMARINE, piano solo................ 1.00 Nielsen (composer of ALICE M'DRUIY, Solo)...022.22...-. Ceseeeeeenoee.30 ONLY YESTERDAY, solo or S. S. A. (for missionary farewell).........30 Gunn (composer of SOMEWHERE ALONG THE WAY, S. S. A.).......30 THIS TESTIMONY, LAST OF ALL, SOLO ooo... Eeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.60 Pond (composer of AS | GO ON MY WAY, S. S. AL) ooceececceecceceeeeee.30 SEEK YE OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, S. S. A. W.. Eecesseseseeececeececeeee.25 McAllister (composer of THE VISITING TEACHER, S. S. A.)....25 WELCOME HOME, MISSIONARY, S. S. A Everett (author of GATE OF "MUSIC FOR MORMONS BY MORMONS" Write for free complete brochure and price list SPECIAL OCCASION SONGS 1365 East 4800 South Salt Lake City, Utah 84117 HAWAIIAN TOURS October, November, December 1965 AUTUMN TOUR TO EUROPE Leaves September 3, 1965 WORLD'S FAIR NEW ENGLAND and CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 16, 1965 ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 - The Fabric of Our Years Pearle M. Olsen Dear old friends! Burnished golden threads Weaving love through mellow. Patterned years! F Dear new-found friends! Silver filaments ~ Now giving luster To our forming days! Designs of varied measurements Enrich the hours as each arrives— Unfolding fabric of our lives! 718 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25. Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all! Orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.. 55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 5.......... 80 DESERE jEws PRESS MAGNIFY YOUR OFFICE, S. A........... ETERNITY, temple)......-..-.2...--.000-+-- one 3........,. 60 Zone 4.......... 65.25 225 Zone 7........:-1.05 Zone 8..........1.20 "The Tiger Of the Anc of Heaven y "Sonnet #94" "ea ient Mariner" 4 "Tithonus Proud" "P Clip AND MAIL COMMUNICATION SERVICES 719 Books of Inspiration OUT OF BEST BOOKS No. I Vol. I The Individual and the Human Values by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas An anthology of significant literature-poems, stories and essays by noted authors which should provide most provocative answers to modern-day challenges. Prominent approaches to Faith in God and Man, Right and Wrong Attitudes, Good Versus Evil, The Place of Suffering in Life and Facing Death supply illuminating and completely satisfying reading. Out of Best Books has been adopted as the literary lesson source for the Relief Society for two years assuring wide acceptance throughout the Church. Plus 15 cents postage $2.95 HOME MEMORIES OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY No. 2 compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay A delightful collection of intimate stories of the first family of the Church compiled by President McKay's second son, Llewelyn. From the stories of President McKay's early life, one can see the fruits of his maturity. A book to be read aloud within the family circle and a must for every Latter-day Saints library. $2.95 A CONVERT'S TRIBUTE TO OUR PROPHET, DAVID O. McKAY No. 3 by F. E. Schluter A prominent businessman who finds himself captivated by the powerful personality of the prophet, joins the Church and pays tribute to the beloved leader of Mormondom in this exciting book. A Convert's Tribute to Our Prophet, David O. McKay makes a marvelous addition to your family home evening _—. _ = wh 50 T Deseret Book | COMPANY wet 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY _ 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN | 717 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah NAME.....................0.0.. 0.0.00 000005.. Gentlemen: Enclosed please find a check C] money order C] I have an ADDRESS..... 0000000000 00000 ee account, please charge [_] Amount enclosed.............. Fortheencircled CITY................ STATE........../))) Seep eee numbered books: 1 2 3 Residents of Utah please add 3'2% sales tax School days are here again! And healthy young bodies need the pure food energy that U & I can give! Children can't survive on foodless foods and drinks with no energy value. Serve energy-high U & | sugar treats to your family often. Energy High U & i the sugar from our land. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Reli Soci < Se c 3 = ta) Oo Nn 23 oad 3 oO i) = _ le) oO ie) ot oO lox oO 4 any is) fe) ol Lessons fof January Magazine The ef ety called me into her apartin the wisdom of her eighty-nine years, asked me to hear a "beautiful article." With firm, clear tones, she read the Luacine C. Fox article (June 1965) on "Thoughts of a Mother During a Family Home Evening.'' I, too, was inspired and fed by those tender words and wished that every mother might live them. Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah My mother ment, then, | was thrilled with the picture of the Jamieson River, Victoria, Australia (the cover for the April 1965 Magazine). We live within one hundred miles from there. Our branch is still small, but our enthusiasm is in the opposite ratio. Hilda M. Curtis Shepparton, Australia | live in a community where there is no electricity. Everyone carries water. There are no other members of the Church here. Seward is sixty miles away. | do not want to be without the Magazine, because there is too much life-giving substance contained between the covers. It is a source of much hap-. Piness, and gives me rich thoughts to pass on to my five children. Stella W. Powers Hope, Alaska The sisters of our stake appreciate the Magazine very much. It is beautifully prepared, and it enriches our lives and brings much 'to our understanding and development. Reading about the work that is carried on in ail parts of the world makes each of us fee! Close to these sisters. Fern L. Hatch, President Philadelphia Stake Relief Society My most sincere congratulations on the Magazine. It is really outstanding in looks and content. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah 722 | just wanted to let you know how much | love the Magazine. It always has a much-needed message' tucked in its pages—stories that bring tears to the eyes, delicious recipes, and excellent lessons. | especially appreciated the story ''Don't Feel Sorry for Me," (by Alice Gubler Sabin, July 1965). She has found what | am looking for. Mrs. Melva McKenzie Cambridge, Massachusetts | extend sincere appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine, with its inspirational and worthwhile articles and poetry. They have helped me to grow in the gospel, and have strengthened my testimony of truth. | am nineteen, and have read every issue of my mother's Magazine since 1955. | especially enjoyed Amelia Everett's 'The Nature of Thought," in the April 1965 issue. Charlene Gold Payson, Utah It was with joy that | read the sweet poem "Prodigal" by Carol Clark Ottesen in the July issue of the Magazine. My joy was great because Carol and | were in the same English class at the Springville, Utah, high school. | dearly love the Magazine and the riches contained therein. Valene Thorn Bateman - Etna, Wyoming The editorial ''A Goodly Heritage," by Vesta P. Crawford (July 1965) gives SO much substance to what I've been seeing and thinking about and working on that | must say thanks for it. | try to visualize my paternal grandfather, from England, who was thirty years old in 1860 and the difficult task of finding enough to eat in this area. A letter written by grandmother in 1869 tells of "peas ready on May 10th and potatoes growing in the garden." Dr. Sedley Stanford Utah State University Logan, Utah The Relief Society Magazine Volume 52 October 1965 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 The Covenant and the Promise Alvin R. Dyer 733 My Happiest Year Vanta Quintero 742 The Voice of Music Ora Pate Stewart 742 Tribute to the Singing Mothers Karen Crane 748 Consider the Nectarine Helen Hinckley Jones 750 Relief Society Means Opportunity Carol C. Hansen 752 Turning of the Road Enola Chamberlin Fiction 736 Mama's Retirement Florence B. Dunford 746 A Great Lady Margery S. Stewart 768 Ring Around Her Heart—Chapter 6 Shirley Thulin General Features 722 From Near and Far 743. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 744 Editorial: On Beginnings Louise W. Madsen 773 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 753 Poetry Writing—A Favorite Hobby 755 Sweeping Out the Cobwebs Maxine T. Grimm 756 New Sweaters for Old Alta Williams 760 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions Part II—Salads Rosa Shurtz 764 Every Day Is the Same Gene Prentice 766 Gleanings From the Season of Harvest 797 Hurry, Hurry, Hurry Janet W. Breeze Lesson Department 780 Theology—Knowledge and Events of the Future Roy W. Doxey 786 Visiting Teacher Message "Cease to Be Idle" Christine H. Robinson 787 Work Meeting Lesson for January to appear in the November Magazine 788 Social Science—Priesthood in the Life of Every Latter-day Saint Woman Alberta H. Christensen 792 Literature—Growth Through Experience Bruce B. Clark Poetry 721 On Eagles' Wings Helen Hooper Parable and Promise, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 731; Dear Loved One, by Marilyn Miller, 731; Inland, by Lael W. Hill, 732; Blue October, by Etta Robbins, 735; Season's End, by Linda Clarke, 741; Supplicacién, by Beatrice Lopez, 751; An Apple, by Rowena Jensen Bills, 754: Housewife Confession, by Alberta H. Christensen, 759; For Three on an Autumn Beach, by Katherine F. Larsen, 763; Combing a Granddaughter's Hair, by Christie Lund Coles, 765; Perennial, by Marian C. Anderson, 767; Symphonies, by Grace B. Wilson, 791: Carpentry, by Kathryn Kay, 796; A Gift, by Elva T. Cowley, 797; The Mystic Glacier, by Bertha A. Kleinman, 797. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIEIY ot the Church of Jesus CUnhrist of Latter-aay Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Saints. 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main sr? EETTSSI pas te - ° ". « ' - and the Promise Alvin R. Dyer Assistant to the Council of the Twelve @ The laws of faith and repentance, as we have shown, are principles of light, or intelligence, and will ever be associated with man's eternal progress; but in and of themselves they are not completely effectual, until, by volitional promise, a sign is made with God the Father signifying that without reserve, having understood good and evil, and having chosen good over evil, in sincerity and confidence, man stands ready to make a covenant and promise of what he intends to do. Of such nature is the ordinance of baptism by water. Such declarations as: "Teach all nations [faith and repentance], baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost,' "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved,''? "Repent and be baptized,'"® (italics added) 'Repent IMatthew 28:19. 2Mark 16:16. 8D&C 18:41. 4Moses 6:52. 724 of all thy transgressions, and be baptized,'"'* designate the culminative aspect of receiving a remission of sin, the desire to do better. It is natural for man who has committed sin, who, having been awakened to his wrongdoing is repentant, to desire to promise that he will not follow that sinful path again. Here, then, are the elementary gospel steps of faith, repentance, and baptism. Baptism Is a Sign to God Baptism by water, as an essential element to the redeeming processes from spiritual death, is just as fixed and permanent as a divine law of salvation, as the immovable laws which govern the planets and the stars. Of this the Prophet Joseph Smith declared: God has made certain decrees which are fixed, and immovable, for instance: God set the sun, the moon, and the stars in the heavens; and gave them their laws, conditions and bounds which they cannot pass, except by his commandments; they all move in perfect harmony in their sphere, and order, and are as lights, wonders and signs unto us... Upon the same principle... Baptism is a sign ordained of God, for the believer in Christ to take upon himself in order to enter into the Kingdom of God, for except ye are born of water, and of the spirit ye cannot enter into the Kingdom of God, saith the Savior... Baptism is a sign to God, to angels, and to heaven that we will do the will of God.5 The Extent and Reality of the Sign In the same interview which Adam, the earthly father of the human family, had with the Lord, following the banishment of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden because of their transgression, he had been told by the Lord that their transgression that had invoked temporal death was forgiven, "the Son of God hath atoned for the original guilt,"® but as to redemption, or reconciliation from _ spiritual death concerned with the individual and _ personal transgression of Adam and Eve and all of their earth-life natural descendants, the Lord gave 'another law and commandment,' to be absorbed by themselves and to be taught freely unto their children. This other law and commandment invoked the principles of faith and repentance, and the ordinance, or sign, of baptism by water and of the Spirit. Here is the commandment: That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the 'Times and Seasons, Vol. 3, pp. 751-752. ®Moses 6:54. Ibid. 6:56. 8Ibid. 6:59. *Moses 6:62-64. THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten: that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory.® Concerning the Use of Water and Complete! Mmersion Needless to say, within the ranks of Christendom there are many modes of baptism, and many concepts of the use of water. But in the restored Church of Jesus Christ, by virtue of divine instruction on the matter, there are no mutations of that mode and use of water that was revealed in the beginning unto Adam our earthly father. The actual baptism of Adam is the pattern for all mankind, and the words of counsel and instruction given him at the time by the Lord, are significant to the importance of this symbolic method, of "new birth" unto reconciliation with God. And now, behold, I say unto you: This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the Meridian of time. And behold, all things have their likeness, and all things are created and made to bear record of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are spiritual; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth, both above and beneath: all things bear record of me. And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water.? 725 to their Purification by Water, 10 r to answer to the like. Ead, tha One prinSpeaking further of immersion, 48 the more complete Symbol of q | lID., Tigha oun 7 Page ]} "Times and €asons Page 935 Times and Seasons Vol. 4 age 320 *Moses 6:64. *Matthew 3:13-16. John 3:23: Acts 8:39 Romans 6:3-5 acs Nephi 11:23-9¢ "Fourth Article Of Faith See 84 25-27 726 eginnin; Symbol of "cleansing" nd " ashing" Peralning to €Mission of Sin. Even When th ulness of the 80Spel Was n among m n, because of their ickedneg nd re. Bellion against God, the Practice Of baptism Sole] Tepentance Mission of sin has been Practiced. Ls Of this nature were the baptisms Christ,» in ¢ fulness of aptism, j additio to the remisS10n of sin f those who Worthily Y faith *epentance, obtain is Ordinan » there js the coy €nant a Promise, Which the Prophet Joseph Sm > 4S alread Stated, Proclaimed to be » Who hath With God, having €en forgiven Teconciled ys to himself by Jesus of his sins, has the Promise of the hrist, and hath 8iven ys the gift of the Holy Ghost, In conMinistry of Teconciliation, To wit, firmation Of the Steps he has that God Was in Christ, reconaken in behalf f his Persona] cling the World Imself Salvat not imp tin their Tespasses unto them: and hath Committed The Baptism Of the Spirit unto us the Word of reconciligWhen A » the first man, was tion" (NT. | Or. 5:18-19 upon him, and "¢ was born €come sons nd hters of the spirit and became duickGod, in y demption fro SPiritua] €ned in the Inner man " he death Spirit of God descended upon him, Covenant and Promise in the symand thus he was born of the Spirit,. Became quickeneg in the Inner bol of bap tism b water and the And he heard a Voice out of heaven, Sought out at the Jordan River, Saying: Thou art baptized With fire, "os.. And with the Holy Ghost. This ig the and Who, "ecognizing his sinless record of the Father, and the Son,. Condition Proclaimed, ave | from henceforth and forever. Need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?"). + ffey And thou art after he Order of it to be SO now US it be. Behold, thou art one in me, a son, of God: and thin may ait become "ance for the remission of Sin, MY sons. Amen: Thus, we see the Pattern of Covenant unto God the Father the actual Teconciliation of the that he Would be completely SubSpirit chilg inner an), and Missive t ill, and that he d the Fa er, Ich, hence. Would fulfil] Pose as the forth and forever, is the lay that Redeemer of Mankind, the ordiPertaing to the deaths, and the nance of baptism Was necessary Tedemption thereof, of the spirit for him, Personally, to fulfill aj] children of God who became esnighteousnesg, "Moses 6:65-68. Ae! "Matthew 3:13-15, came up Straigh OCTOBER 1965 water... Lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God [the Holy Ghost],?2 descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And loa voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." (Italics added.) The Firstborn Son of God had covenanted and promised in the pre-mortal councils that he would come to earth to redeem mankind, but, then, when he possessed the body of a man, and - was himself subject to physical death and also capable of committing sin, it was necessary, being in the flesh, to rise above all things, and, while in possession of a mortal body which could be susceptible to the enticings of the Evil One, for him, through the eternal law of baptism, to r°- affirm his premortal coveriant. Because of this, God che~Father was pleased; and then he, too, affirmed the mission of the Lord, his Beloved Son. Lucifer Seeks to Take Advantage There appears to be no question in the evil mind of Lucifer, the arch enemy of the chosen Firstborn and Beloved Son of God the Father, that the conditions of mortality into which the Lord had _ been placed, made him liable to sin and disobedience, but to neither of which did he yield. Nevertheless, Lucifer, the devil, pressed what he thought was an advantage, to cause the chosen Son of God to deviate from his assigned mission, and thus frustrate the design of God in the earth-life purpose of Luke 3:22; 4:1. 23Matthew 3:16-17. "See Matthew 4:1-7; see also Moses 1:12-22. Ibid. 4:8-10. 2See Ether 3:14-16. 728 man. But the Lord, the Firstborn in the Spirit and Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, met every attempt of Lucifer to deceive and destroy him.** Being the prince of the world, he offered Jesus all of the kingdoms and glory of the earth if he would but worship him. The Lord's denunciation was final, "Get thee hence Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve."'?° The Still Small Voice of the Holy Ghost The influence and power of the Holy Ghost came to a responsive and worthy Adam after baptism; this same power and influence came to a divine and _ sinless Christ, who sought guidance and influence as it emanated from God the Father; and this same pattern is for all of the sons and daughters of God, who shall be obedient to it, "to fulfill all righteousness." It is a power that intercedes in the mind of the inner man, with all of its administrative force; it is, then, for the physical mind through restraint and obedience to become of one mind with the inner man. The Holy Ghost, as we have learned, is a personage of spirit, the same as the Firstborn Son of God was, in singular form, before birth into mortality. The image of the Holy Ghost is the same as God the Father and the Son. The brother of Jared saw the spirit person of Christ the Lord before his mortal birth; the body of Christ's spirit was the same in stature, image, and size as that of a man, for man was created spiritually and physically, after that same image."* From this we come to know of the person whom we call the Holy Ghost, who is a spirit, in full stature and size as that of a man. Under the administration of the Holy Ghost, mankind can be and is influenced, in the manner described by the Master unto Nicodemus, as the listing and blowing of the wind, "and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit."?' As man obeys the gospel principles of faith and repentance, and fulfills all righteousness in being baptized by immersion, symbolizing death, burial, and resurrection, and all is done in worthiness by the covenant and promise, then he becomes the beneficiary of the promise of the Father in receiving the guiding and enlightening influence of the power administered by that appointed holy being, called the Holy Ghost. This great power is a guiding light, a comforting influence, a testifying power in every walk of life to the righteous man. Its manifestation to each person, as described by the Prophet Elijah, is that of "a still small voice."" The witness of this, the greatest power upon the earth, was invoked upon Elijah, the Tishbite prophet, who, seeking refuge in the caves of Mount Horeb, while the Lord God demonstrated the many physical powers of destruction that could be visited upon the enemies of this great prophet of the sealing 27John 3:7-8. 31 Kings 19:8-13; See The Lord Speaketh, by Author, pp. 303-305. 2D&C 93:38. "Moses 6:54. *"lD&C 93:39. THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE power, witnessed, "a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and broke in pieces the rocks.... But the Lord was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake; And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.' (Italics added.) Accountability and Infant Baptism In a revelation from God unto the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in May of 1833, the innocence of the spirit of man in his infant mortal state was affirmed: 'Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God."'° It was revealed unto Moses, as previously referred to, "that the Son of God hath atoned for the original guilt,"°® thus relieving any man of accountability for the transgression or the sin of another. The innocence of the spirit of man in his infant state continues until he reaches a time of accountability, wherein he comes to know good and evil, at which time, as the Lord further revealed, covering the conditions which actually develop in each personal life: "... That wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men and because of the tradition of their fathers.''*? It can be seen, therefore, that the spirit of man, in his earth life infant state is without sin, and continues in this condition until, through experience and growing 729 OCTOBER 1965 knowledge of good and evil, he becomes accountable. Until then, baptism by water for the remission of sin would be ineffectual. Under this condition, there would also be no need for the covenant and promise, for sin and transgression would not have entered. But there comes a time in the growing years of each child's life, "according to the tradition," or in accordance with the law of perceiving good and evil, that each spirit son and daughter of God tabernacled in a_ natural body, reaches an age of accountability; and from that youthful age until mortal death each is in need of the ordinance of baptism by water and the spirit to be reconciled to God. As the revelations from God clearly state: "For all men must repent and be baptized, and not only men, but women, and children who have arrived at the years of accountability."*> The New Testament record of the Holy Bible, when understood, proclaims that those who are to be baptized must be capable of being taught;** and thereafter are to have the power of perception so as to believe;** possessing the capability of repentance;*° and of bringing forth fruits of repentance.** The Age of Accountability That there need be no disputations as to the proper age for the baptism of children, the Lord gave this commandment to the Prophet Joseph Smith, as a law: x3D&C 18:42. *See Matthew 28:19-20. 4See Mark 16:16: Bread 8:12, 36-37; Acts 10:34-35; 16:32-34; 18:8 *See Acts 2:38-39. 3See Luke 3:7-8. "D&C 68:27. See also 20:37; 20:68. *Moroni 8:7-8. 3s°Tbid. 8:9, 11, 14. 730 "And their children shall be baptized for the remission of 'sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of hands."'** (Italics added.) Baptism of Infants Condemned Not only would the baptism of children who have not reached the age of accountability be ineffectual, but it is condemned by the Lord, as a challenge to him in the design and purpose of earth-life experience; and, therefore, a flaunting disregard for the will and commandments of God. Concerning this, Mormon, a prophet of God unto the ancient people of the American Continent, proclaims the mockery and error of baptizing infants, or any child before that child reaches the age of perception and accountability. Here are some excerpts from his strong writings on the subject, to his son Moroni (about 400-421 A. D.):... The word of the Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying: Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the righteous but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician, but they that are sick; wherefore, little children are whole, for they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them. I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.. He that supposeth that little children need baptism is in the gall of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity.*9 Conclusive Evidence Space will not be taken here to prove from ancient historical accounts, which could effectively THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE sprinkling of infants is a manfant baptism is false in concept made doctrine for which there is and a mockery to God in its no scriptural warrant. Perhaps function. Said he, "It cannot be the singular statement of Martin proved by the Sacred scriptures Luther, the great reformer, wil] that infant baptism was institut- "Manuscript in Articles of Fai Possession of Author (See first Christians after the Aposth, JaAMEs E. TALMacE, pp. Parable and Promise Dorothy J. Roberts Hold him—whom Sovereign point of spear could never slay— By the cold, eternal memory of. Metal in the palm, And by some vigil in the heart that keeps him, strength and citadel, Guarding against the lash of years which would Scourge him from the inn of the Mind, From the room of memory into Oblivion. Parable and Promise let him live, and twin rows of yews He walked between, and Pilate, waiting. Dear Loved One Marilyn Miller Quebec, Canada True words of love come easy Like a shaft of blossoms before a cherry, Soft floating. Glad whispers Carry Like Perfume, The heart has room For love words. And in lonely moments, words are tender Flowers of smiles, once near; Cherry blossoms in December, Grown dear: Words to remember, 731 be done, that the baptizing and give evidence historically that in- —_— - —_——: - _ Where the white e And the gulls are: — And now | For the loud wa\ And sharp in Of sea-birds' aind are 1 leap to the — Wind from a far s Miy Happiest Year Vanta Quintero Talk given by Vanta Quintero at special Placement Program meeting held Thursday, May 6, 1965, at Provo, Utah. M"The-la na go tha woo, she wont de tha she sh lah go show go th." I just said in my native Apache tongue "This year is my happiest. I am very, very happy, for in two weeks I will graduate from Provo High School." I have been in the Latter-day Saint Indian Placement Program for five years. I first came to Utah to start school in the 7th grade. My new foster parents, Brother Lloyd Bird and Sister Marge Bird, drove from Springville to Provo to pick me up. I was so afraid of white people that I lost my voice and couldn't even talk to my foster parents. I believe the reason I was so afraid was because at home our houses are very simple —the furniture is older and inexpensive. Up here the homes seem so elaborate, with lovely furniture, delicate figurines, and so many expensive things that could be so easily broken. On the reservation, the standards and restrictions are different. We are able to run around like 'fa bunch of wild Indians." Here, in our homes with white people, we are expected to conduct ourselves politely and with Vanta (right center) visits with her own family—the John Quinteros of Ft. Apache, Arizona and the Bishop John Martin a s of Provo, Utah. Sat. Ge er —. restraint, and ¢ eck with Our TI was to ew Ome, I felt Oster Parents before We do anyPanic-stricken S almost thing. SO, at home lived in ike Starting Il over again, @ smal] community Where | had When | first met Bishop Maralways known everyone There tin, his wife Dona and their famThen, al] ofa Sudden, J Must learn Voice 4gain and could hardly to live With al] the wh t was very terrifying to me. Told me later jt Was the first time The minute J 80t to the Bird's She had ever seen an Indian turn home and wag Shown My new Pale. This didn't seem to bother 4 tearful let} i Own par me into th Car, and the children ents telling the to come and get a Spoke to gj Next to Th me. That w th Ceinning of Wo litt] won out the cry har. St, I w, Tun to the tl err fave me fi Plano and p] y "Mary Had a Litquick kisses on the Cheek, J; did tle Lamb," foster mother got not take long f to fee] at SO tired of e € piece th t home She tay Me to play "ChopThe first year I liveg With the Sticks" a d " er, Peter Pum Martins, My foster her Do a, In Kater " and | ere Careful with €ach Cried for two Weeks unti] my other's f, elings th ever Parents ca © and took me back even h Toss word between Ome Ster par, Nts were SO US e after two Miserable Weeks, my Careful to avoid any trouble. Own parents came all the ney trom Then 1 don't know What hap. Ft. Apache (over 609 miles) and Pened, but One day we both had took me back. It out. JT told her What J thought, I had Only been home a Short and the told m hat she ime wh Tealized my Mistake hought ecided then J had and determineg to come back to etter "sh € up." tah the next year, Which J did, © Were both Surprised to find Was so hard because I was go that I ha ev d more like Shy, but the Irds he] d me and a Member of th ily, and SO many £00d friends that right then, € decided to talk Was no y to last the things out Set our feelings year out, J €ven lear to enjoy Out into the Open metimes | i ved with Irds for have had some d days and lots Sary for the Caseworker to find Parents has made them all work me a new home. When | learned Out. T think this is the Secret of a good relationship between the Indian child and the foster parents—talk things over, tell them whatever it is that is bothering you. The foster parent should also tell the Indian child what he or she is doing that doesn't fit in with the family plan. I am so grateful for this wonderful Placement Program. I think that above all it is a great missionary plan. Six years ago I was the first member of my family to join the Church. Since I have been in the Program, my two sisters and my parents have all joined the Church. My father was the last member of our family to join, and he came all the way to Provo, Utah, to be baptized for my seventeenth birthday. It was a big surprise and the most precious birthday gift I could ever receive. When I look at my family and see the difference the Church has made in our lives I can hardly believe it. Our standard of living, our way of life, our relationship with each other have all changed so much for the better. I am grateful for the two wonMY HAPPIEST YEAR derful foster families I have had, the Birds and the Martins. I am thankful for the wise advice I have received from the caseworkers I have had, and for the counsel from the General Authorities of the Church. Now that I am graduating from high school and ready to start college at the Brigham Young University, I think back, and I can truthfully say it was worth it—all the tears and sacrificing from everyone involved have been well worth it. It has been a great and wonderful blessing to us all, and if I could pray for anything I would like, it would be that more Indian children could be given these same opportunities that I have been blessed with. The Indians, according to our Father in heaven, have a great mission yet to perform here on earth, and, with the help of our foster parents, these things will be fulfilled. I want to say "Thank you" to the Birds and "Thank you" to the Martins and most of all a "Thank you" to my Father in heaven. Blue October Etta Robbins Bush and tree, with feigned reluctance, Parted with their heavy yield, Pale and brittle stands the stubble Where was once the fertile field.... Earth is bathed in blue October, Gone are spring and summer days; Leaving bounteous gifts to autumn With her consummating ways. 735 g@ "And that's all," I told my five-year-old Joey. '""What's all?" Joey was round and dark, right now his dark eyes were pleading. "That's just it, darling. We can't go to Grandma's today." Joey frowned. When Joey frowns... Well, he is like his father so much that it almost kills me. With love, I mean. 'What is Grandma doing now?" "Grandma is cleaning." I ran my hand through his thick, soft hair. "She has the cleaners there doing her house. You remember it is Grandpa's birthday this Saturday." "What are we going to give Grandpa?" "Darling, we have his gift. You know, some knitted ties. What wotries me is that we should give 736 aan | We ~Retiroment iPiorence B. Dunford Grandma something. She is always killing herself (that word again), doing things for others." "Grandpa does things, too. He takes Kelly for a walk." "I know. But Grandpa is retired. I think Grandma works harder than ever, though. Grandpa is pretty much underfoot." 'Sometimes I step on Kelly." "IT know. It's too bad, but little black poodles have to learn to stay out from under people's feet." "Like Grandpa." Joey laughed. "Well, he tries. He busies himself as much as he can. But Grandma is impatient. If he isn't there, she moves things, heavy things, all by herself." "Like the closets." "Yes." I pushed the dark hair off Joey's wide forehead there in our sunny, small kitchen. "Grandma was going to let the cleaners do the closets. But then she decided she didn't want so much cleaning and confusion all at once. And she figured, too, it would save Grandpa fifteen or twenty dollars. But she has all the closets done now. And the cupboards, too. The cleaners were to come today." Today was Monday. How long will the cleaners be there? Who are they?" "Will and Howard. Two or three days." "Two or three days, what?" "Tt will take them two or three days to do the walls and woodwork, the windows and all the floors." "Then Grandma won't have to do anything." "That's what Grandpa thinks. Or that's what Grandma thinks he thinks. But there is a terrific amount of work to do, what with the pictures and the knicknacks, polishing furniture, and things like that. And Grandma likes things orderly, like most women." "What is order?" Joey wanted to know. "Well...." I hesitated. Sometimes Joey's father thinks I try to explain too much, too fast. But it is surprising the things Joey seems to understand. "Well, the other day I was at my poetry group." "Do you know some poetry?" "TY don't write it myself. But I like to go. Anyway, a girl was reviewing, talking about a book on poetry. And it said the first desire of our minds was for order. Like picking up your toys when you are through with them." Joey's eyes brightened. 'And MAMA'S RETIREMENT not leaving my dump truck in Mr. Gir... Gir...." "Mr. Giraldo's driveway." "And he ran over it with his car." Joey brushed a tear out of one eye with a fist. "He never. Never got me another." "That's because it wasn't his fault. We must not leave our toys in other people's driveways." "T know." Joey nodded wisely. "Daddy is getting me another." "Not until your birthday in October. This is April." "Maybe Grandma will get me one for...." "This birthday is Grandpa's."' "Is Grandma giving him a party?" "Well, sort of. She always does. But this time, what with the cleaners, she hasn't said." "T want a truck," Joey said. Tuat night when Big Joe came home from his work downtown, we discussed the matter over our dinner, there in the small dinette off the kitchen. "Did you go over to your mother's today?' He caught my hand and squeezed it as I set the platter of steak on the golden maple drop-leaf table. "T wanted to go. I really did. But you know Mama. She doesn't want help, but then she feels put upon." "Sometimes I think she gives your father a bad time." "Oh, not really. I believe he deserves it. Mama just likes things orderly, and she doesn't like to wait." The telephone rang just then. "T'll get it," I said, sliding back my chair. I'm sorry to call you away from your dinner,"' Mama's voice said. 737 OCTOBER 1965 "But I wanted you to know you're invited over here to dinner on Saturday night. I didn't want Joe making plans to take you someplace else." "Oh, thank you, Mama," I said. "But I think it's going to be too much for you. All that cleaning and the dinner, too. Why don't you and Daddy come over here?" "Because I've always had your father's birthday dinner at home." I sighed. But there was no use in arguing with Mama. "Can I bring the dessert?" I make a really superb lemon cream pie, if I do say so myself. "TI always have my raspberry shortcake,'' Mama said. "But, Mama... This is only April" "Well, there are frozen raspberries." I decided to change the subject. "Did the cleaners get there today?" "They won't be here until Wednesday." Her tone was grim. "Oh, I thought they were coming today." "T decided to do the closets and some other things, myself." "T know." "Well, your Aunt Nell came and stayed five days last week," Mama reminded me. "And you know how much waiting on she takes." "T think you just spoil people, Mama." "I don't know how you're going to help it. Especially anyone who is so indolent as your Aunt Nell." "Maybe that's because she's 738 afraid she can't please you," I said. AMA snorted. "She won't lift a hand. Or a foot. Anyway, I might as well do what I have to do before the cleaners get here, as trying to do it at the same time, or afterward." "I think you're a perfectionist, Mama." "Well, maybe." Mama's voice sounded pleased. "But, I don't think so. I just don't like confusion. I like to clean up as I go." "Tf there is anything I can do, Mama... Or Joe. "Isn't Jee re "Of course." "How can he help?" "He could come over in the evening. He'd be glad to come. We don't want you lifting any heavy furniture. Did the men come for the rugs?" "Yes. They came first thing this morning." "Did you send the pads, too?" "No. They weren't very dirty. I can do them, myself." "Tf you have any lifting to do, or moving, you should ask Papa. He's still young and strong." Mama sniffed again. "Maybe that's the reason. He takes his time so about everything." "Sometimes, Mama, I think that house is too big for you. What with all those nice apartment houses going up all over town, don't you think...?" "No, I don't think," Mama said. "Your father and I both hke room to move around in." I did not hear from Mama the next day, Tuesday, nor on Wednesday. Thursday... A bit worried, for I had phoned twice, MAMA'S RETIREMENT truck out front. One of the en, Severely « hat appened?" a slim, nd, youn Ish man But ama see ed Suddenly answered y ting, "Pm Harriet," not to Want to tell. And tighte; "th ama "" "Oh. § oi bed, and took: e's in her bedroom? I He nodded j her and. "Tell,": "T'm all right," he Taised her. N that Irection, "T Self on her Pillows, but then h Suess she isn't feeling go Well," ace contorted With pain, «7,5 he called after y My back and Y Night side» I found ama Propped up in "T Want know Now what bed. The Canary yellow Walls happeneg " yellow an gold Mese silk the qd e drapes that I loved so Were at the e soft beige ry > the rubb those Tug pa er pad folded I under the Mahogany bed. Apa was Sitting j; "Your fat learned on when he Was a boy. He always SAYS it js better than » Whatever happeneq>" any grand." her's Piano that he t's - +. You Surely didn't,. A 8lanced toward Papa, Managed it all Ma insisted. "The mat Was just und nd with 4a But the Piano! Y didn't OK Joey's hand in you ask Papa to help yi Joey Wanted pathy with the idea. He Said to let the Cleaners do it. T He Makes you mother nervous." agree. Specially under the circums ances," 739 Phone did not answer ey and I took the bus Over, here was a janitorja] Service Said. Som Ow, I clasped Joey's looked bright 4nd clean The One of his, "We'll take Kelly and 80 for a Walk.": When €Y were Out of th om, I turned to Mama. « ow, ama, go With It," | Sai "Mama!" "Well, it wa "T did Mention it to him the night before. He Wasn't in symYr Grand- OCTOBER 1965 "When I ask a person once...' Mama began. "Well, then, your father had to go downtown in the morning, and so I just got busy. It wasn't so much lifting the piano," she went on. "I had to somehow kick the mat from under the leg at exactly the same time...." "And so you wrenched your back...." "T'm afraid...." She looked up at me. "Have you had a doctor?" "You know our old Doctor Landis passed away." "But, the new one...?" Mama pulled herself upright again. "Every time I go to him, it's up to the hospital I go, for all those expensive X-rays. Besides, it's just a sprain." "You haven't told me exactly how it happened." "TI was just trying to lift the piano and push the mat out at the same time. And I... I'm afraid I was a bit angry with your father for going downtown and leaving me all the heavy work to do." "You weren't even careful. You went at it too fast." "T know." Mama's voice was more than usually contrite. 'All of a sudden, I just felt something. Well, sort of tear... In my side. At the same time my back began to pain. But, I got the pad out from under the piano," she finished in triumph. 'And I carried it out to the patio and swept and vacuumed it on both sides." "And now you're paying for it," I reminded her. 'Mama, when are you going to learn?" Mama turned her face away from me. When she spoke again, 740 her voice was muffled. "I'm all right. I feel much better today. And I've done something like this before, you know." "T know. But not this badly." "No," Mama agreed. "Harriet," she confided, "you know, this time it scared me. I can just feel..." she shuddered, "that ripping feeling... Or sound." "Mama, I hate to say this, but sometimes I feel you bring these things on yourself." "That's what your father says. I don't think it's very sympathetic of you." "T'm sorry." "You don't realize what I have to put up with. I like things orderly, and I like them done when they need doing. And your father..." "TI know he seems easygoing. But he has the best health of any man his age I know." Tears came into Mama's round blue eyes. "At my _ expense. Sometimes, I think he's just lazy." "Mama, you know better than that. You say yourself that Daddy polishes your kitchen better than you do." "In his own time," Mama said. "Well, I suppose that's his right. Not many men like to be bossed."' "Your father, especially." "Mama, people are different. It's a peculiar thing, but sometimes we seem to marry our opposites. I mean a slow person falls in love with a person who is impatient. I suppose we're looking for balance, the golden mean, or something like that. I suppose it's like the poet said, it's our way of finding order." "What do you mean by that?" MAMA'S RETIREMENT Mama's Voice was contrite again. "We're 80ing + like that "Oh, Nothing. Everything It There's a first time for verydoes Mean thoug that we've got thing. Aren't We going to like jt 8ive wa to Necessity, to difOey?" T ked, as he and his erences jn People. Tha We can't Srandfathey came back into th Tush in Pell-mel], and our 0 room. Way the Minute we want it. Now, "Grandpa IS going to give me the Cleaners Would have been dump truck f, hi birthday," glad to Move back the pad » Or Joey Cried, al] aglow, « nd I'm take th UP altogether » never, __ never €ver going to "T kn >" Mama Said "That's ave it in a driy again. Not What the told me. 'You Should €ven our ow.' never lift anything heavy, You ama's eyes Were Closed. But Can always leave those things to there Was a g ntle Smile around us,' " €r mouth kn She was "T hope you']] Temember that thinking Somewhat along the Mama." Same line, but h_ doin too much, rather than too litt] Mama Ifted her chin, "Oh, I Order der; households will, Ha Tiet This has really Our Persona] lives, and in our Scared me Il never. Never Spiritua] lives, Was a 800d lift anythin beyond my Strength thing, but w, d to 80 about it again," In an orderly manner. "Not e en Pproaching it "Just one thing more ama," Ou can alw ys Said. « Te going to have to in now. Not be Mpatient get along w th my lemon cream Or g independent th your ple," father and thers, p ot so Mama Mov Testlessly there young anymore." on her p lows, 0 d her eyes a "None of us is When jt comes bit, then Closed them 4gain. Fo to things like that," One Io Moment J feared Sh "Mayb your father doesn't Was foilng to renege on the Whole feel like that heay ork, either," Ing. But th nN she Opened her "T think you're ght. He just eyes and miled, though 4 trifle °esn't want to admit t." Wanly, « verything jg £0ing to "T' afraid w, ll have to come e all Tight." 2 € said. Over to your Place foy his birth. Suddenly I knew It would day din Y, after all," ama _ be Said a Season's End Linda Clarke Amber 5 4Ves stand in rank along windrows;: Life is UNPredictable. Red-blush Pples Deek above their basket-beds. It can SPana S€ason ender bloss MS courted by Spring Winds Or leeward fal] Lie as Withereq Wreaths beneath my feet, Before the Eentlest breeze. 741 The Voice of Music Ora Pate Stewart Where wast thou when the morning stars sang together, as taking their pitch from the voice of God, they found their places in the universe? The angels who accompanied the Christ Child brought him with music, and remained to bear their testimony in song to shepherds. Were we among that choir? Had we a voice in it? Music is the first language a baby learns; perhaps it is a remembered transition. When a child goes to sleep it is his comforter. Through music he learns to love. When a man is of an age to marry, it is the rhythm of his mating dance. He praises his God in hymns. He pledges his patriotism with his national anthem. When he dies, a funeral psalm accompanies him back to his home country. Music carries men's praises up to God. It is the joyful noise he has required. He has stirred us with the rise and swell of oceans, and has calmed us with the quiet movement of clouds. He has sharpened us with lightnings, and has been known to speak with the chastening voice of thunder. He has soothed us with the whir of cricket wings, the cadences of waterfalls, the wind in trees. If stars can sing, and mountains shout for joy—if birds can communicate their lives through song—why need we put a voice into cannons or whining missiles? Music, more than flowers or jewels, conditions the heart to love. More than fire or frost, it refines the soul. As rain, it blesses rich and poor, the restless and the near-content. It is the rainbow bridging the finite with the infinite. Be still and listen: It could unify the world. Tribute to the Singing Mothers Karen Crane From a letter to Wilma Sorenson, Director, Singing Mothers, North Sevier Stake, Utah I want to express my feelings about belonging to the wonderful Singing Mothers chorus. I feel such a tremendous spiritual uplifting while practicing for each conference that I know without a doubt that it is the work of the Lord and that we are doing missionary work. A year ago, my husband and I went to the temple to be sealed and had our children sealed to us. Prior to that, on February 2, I sang for the first time for conference with this chorus. It was a wonderful experience not alone for me, but also for my husband. He was so thrilled with the singing, he said he had never heard anything so beautiful, and I feel without a doubt that this experience, together with what was said at that conference, helped in getting us to the temple, something we had thought of for some time, but kept putting off. You are a wonderful, inspired leader, your patience and kindness to all are greatly appreciated. If, at times, I should miss being to any of the practices, it is because I just can't be there for reasons beyond my control. I love the chorus too much to want to miss a practice. Thank you for the opportunity of belonging. 742 Ramona W. Cannon Selina Mann, President, Apia Stake Relief Society, a convert to the Church in 1947, was chosen by the Government of Western Samoa to be their representative at a United Nations Human Rights Seminar held in Mongolia August 3-17, 1965. Mrs. Mann _ traveled through Australia, New Delhi, Moscow, and Irkutsk before arriving at Ulan Bator, Mongolia, on August 2nd. Included in the agenda at the meetings were the meaning and importance of participation of women in public life; factors which affect such participation; measures needed to increase the contributions of women to public fife; and the action which might be taken to achieve the objectives considered. Ivy Houtz Woolley, Las Vegas, Nevada, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has recently had a collection of her poems, Sifted From the Sand, published by the Exposition Press, New York. Mrs. Woolley, an accomplished musician, has long been active in volunteer social service work, and has spent many hours reading to the blind. The former Hope Cook, once a New York debutante and a graduate of Sarah Lawrence College, where she majored in Oriental studies, married the Crown Prince of Sikkim soon after her graduation. Now mother of a year-old son, Palden, she was crowned Queen when her husband was crowned King of Sikkim on April 4, in Gangtok, capital of the high Himalayan little kingdom. Her broad education and interest in the problems of the people have made her a helpful person in her new country. Maria Ferriero is considered America's finest Aida. She is a member of the New York City Opera Company, and has sung many difficult and exacting operatic roles throughout the country. Her remarkable voice is especially noted for its depth and vibrancy, and for its enunciation and breath control. Her impersonation of Aida, an Ethiopian princess enslaved by the Egyptians, has been described as ''majestic, glorious, unforgettably tragic." Miss Elizabeth Meehan is an expert in garden lighting, a delightful new fashion which is really an art. She is the color and lighting design coordinator with the Sylvania Electronics Products Company, Salem, Massachusetts. There should be one focal point in a lighted garden, the same as in a painting, she advises. Miss Meehan has won many awards in her field. Helen G. Russell of Gorham, Maine, Professor of Mathematics at Wellesley College, is also a photographer of note. Recently in a World Travel Photo Contest sponsored by the Saturday Review, she won the grand prize for color photography for her appealing picture of a child in a sampan. Her award was a round-trip to Hong Kong, with all expenses paid. Ellen-Ann Dunham, Vice-President of Genera! Foods Corporation, is an expert on designing kitchens. Her unique and original ideas on the arrangement of cupboards and storage space have won acclaim by home economists throughout the world. 743 EDITORIAL be accepted and receive acclaim. Orators USE their Opening Sentences to bring their listeners to a Willingness to listen. Teachers find that gain the desired response. Volume 52 October 1965 Number 10 ® Belle s. Spafford, President e Marianne Cc. Sharp, First Counselor © Louise w. Madsen, Second Counselor ® Hulda Pp. Young, Secretary-Treasurer With the arrival of October, a full scale of activities resumes and new courses of study are introduced. Each Relief Society presidency is responsible for each yearly beginning. So much depends on making it an eagerly anticipated event. Never should the opening of Relief Society be a dull and humdrum thing. An uninspiring beginning is a handicap difficult to overcome. The responsibility to stimulate and motivate makes it necessary to have the opening social and opening meetings right in spirit, attractive in presentation, and reflecting cherished sisterhood. Each class leader is responsible for making the initial yearly class periods vital, helpful, interesting, thought provoking and _ inviting to participation in learning. By affirming her conviction of the worth of the subject she teaches, and by her enthusiasm, she makes the beginning meaningful. A good beginning becomes the foundation upon which success is built. ''Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase' (Job 8:7). Relief Society had its beginning in this last dispensation 123 years ago. Its auspicious organization is the foundation for its growth and achievements. As a pebble thrown into a pond breaks the calm surface and causes the water to ripple in everwidening circles, Relief Society, from its start, has spread in everwidening waves to influence and uplift women of many lands. Come with us, begin with us, be one with us, Relief Society calls. Let the beginning of this year's work find every sister in her place in the organization the Lord caused to be created for his daughters. —L. W. M. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Etsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson trene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith — | ep ee w There was a great lady who could make songs of her own. When she sang the songs in the evenings, all the townspeople gathered outside her windows to listen. The lady sang her songs softly, but so sweet was her voice and so gentle her fingers on the harp strings that listeners were moved to weep. At first the woman was delighted at the praise and gratitude of the humble village people, but as her fame spread, and more wealthy people came to listen, she began to grow impatient with the villagers. At last, the lady, who now was asked to visit distant cities to 746 Margery S. Stewart sing her songs, became angry with the villagers and built a high stone wall about her house, so they could no more press her windows. "Only those who pay shall hear me now," she said. One day the lady decided to give a great recital for many important men and women who were visiting the island. For days her servants and gardeners swept and dusted and made ready the garlands of flowers for the guests. The great feast was made ready for the earth ovens. On the day of the recital everything shone. The sun was its brightest, the air most delightfully scented, the garden bloomed with lavish beauty, and the many lawns were green and tender to the eye. The lady stood in her purple robes with a crown upon her head, for many had told her she was a queen among women. How beautiful and grand she felt... How proud to think of all the people who would soon be walking about admiring her gardens and flowers. Suddenly someone bowed over her hand. The lady looked up in surprise. It was an uninvited guest who stood there. Though he was very tall and handsome and gentle in manner, still he was a stranger. "Who are you?" asked the lady in wonder. "T am the messenger and the physician," said the stranger. "But I am not ill," cried the lady in some alarm. "Only your eyes," said the messenger and physician, and with that, he took a powder from his robes and blessed each of her eyes. After the small smarting was over, the lady opened her eyes and saw things very clearly. She saw her beautiful gardens, but everywhere she looked she saw the patient hands of her gardeners and the tears of the maids she had scolded. "Your guests are arriving," said the messenger and physician. The lady looked up and cried aloud, for each guest was supported by a pair of crutches, and on these crutches each one limped carefully. "Oh, how terrible!" cried the lady, but then she was silent in some astonishment, for as the guests came nearer, she saw they were not at all sad because of their affliction, but rejoiced in their crutches. Some of them had taken great pains to make them especially beautiful and had had A GREAT LADY them inlaid with gold or silver or precious stones, and some were ivory and beautifully carved. "How strange," murmured the lady. "Behold them," said the messenger and the physician, "for they are all named." And so they were. Some of them were named "Beauty," some "Wealth"; some were named "Pedigree" and some ''Wisdom"; but each had a name. Suddenly there was a commotion. The lady looked toward the sound. She saw that one of the guests who leaned on crutches marked ''Beauty"" had stumbled and fallen to the ground. The broken crutches, which had betrayed her, were fallen beside her. "Alas," cried the lady, watching her stricken guest being carried away, ''alas! That one should rely on such crutches as beauty. I rejoice that I am without such crutches." "Look," said the messenger and physician. The lady looked down and beheld that she also leaned upon crutches. The name. Of her crutches was "Talent," and they were of pure silver. With a cry of dismay, the lady cast the crutches from her. She stumbled and could not stand. The physician knelt beside her. She looked at him in fear. "Why can I not stand without the crutches?" "Because you have leaned upon the gift and not the Giver." The lady wept, for with her new sight, she saw that it would take great pain and endurance and self-denial to learn to lean upon that which would support her forever. 747 fe) inkler, Is t-growi Se blushes en [ returned ater the Sprinkler, the eautify] tree lay on Its Side, its roots pulled e Water-softened earth. J simply cou Idn't elieve What [ trees on't just fall Ver, Specially When there jg no Wind. Ent q neighbor, from - the Wind-swept Plaing of South €r run too long, € to offer both ad- vice and muscle. ''What happened?" he asked. Both Ivan and I lhfted our shoulders in a magnificent display of actual ignorance. Then Ivan tried for an answer. "I guess we gave it too much water." "See that down side?" Mr. Dakota asked. "Note how much more growth there is on that side than on the up side? The tree wasn't balanced." And then he added, "Trees don't root deep here in California as they do on the plains. Growth is too easy and too fast. There aren't any winds to buck, either." Mr. Dakota and Ivan lifted together. I put my weight on the rope and slowly the tree came to an upright position. Quickly I tied the rope to a metal support that was none too firm itself. While Mr. Dakota balanced the tree, Ivan went for boards to use as temporary props. "You better prune off all that heavy side and leave it propped for a couple of months," Mr. Dakota said as he placed the boards where they would do the most good and guyed a wire to a neighboring fence post. I watched his expertness with envy; but still I was thinking, "TI wonder if I could make a parable out of this." Surely many of us—like the little nectarine tree—lose our footing and pull our roots out of soil that has been softened by new influences. Think of the adolescent girl who finds that her parents are not the stable people she had thought them. How easy it is for her to draw her roots out of the unfamiliar, disintegrating environment. CONSIDER THE NECTARINE Then, what had Mr. Dakota said? The tree had grown unevenly. It had put out new wood, new leaves, heavy fruit, only in one direction. Many of us are, without realizing it, growing too much in one direction. Perhaps we are growing physically but not mentally. Or, perhaps even more likely, we may be growing mentally but not emotionally and _ spiritually. The student away from the influence of his home and attending an advanced technological institute may lose touch with his church and come to believe that only those things that can be proved by scientific methods can be of worth. Or, what was that other statement of Mr. Dakota? 'Things don't root deep here in California. They grow too fast and too easily. There aren't any winds to buck, either." I often wonder what differences there would be in me if I had lived the pioneer life. If I had belonged to the Martin Company, for example. But there is still another possible parable. Ivan and I saw the fallen tree. With the help of our neighbor, we set it upright. We knew how to give it temporary support. Perhaps we should watch for humans who have fallen, help them to their feet, and assist them until they are again firmly rooted. If we had the gift that Jesus had for telling parables, we might begin an immortal classic with the words: 'Consider the nectarine tree, which having put all of its growth on one side, and finding itself in soil that was no longer firm...." 749 Relief Society Means Opportunity Carol C. Hansen @ i want to tell you what Relief Society has done for me. When | was in college | had the ambition to become a doctor, and all my classes were taken with that in mind. | studied three and one-half years in pre-medical subjects, and | don't regret it, for | met and married my zoology laboratory partner. But | do regret that | was not better prepared to be a homemaker. When |! Look back on those first few years, it seems impossible that | could be the same girl. | was so inefficient | would just tron a shirt if my husband was going someplace and needed one. | would wait for him to come home at night before | would bathe the baby, because | felt so inexperienced. Then came another baby, and then I did start learning how to manage better, out of necessity, but then came the trapped feelings. | asked myself, had | been right to give up a Career in medicine to stay home all the time and take care of children and do housework? | even told my feelings to our family doctor. He said, "Carol, you need to get away from the house regularly. You need an afternoon each week to which you can look forward, that is yours to do with as you wish.'"' | took his advice, and also the advice of my good husband, "'Why don't you start going to Relief Society?" The meetings were held then at one o'clock in the afternoon, and | really had to work and plan to get everything ready so | could go. | hired a baby sitter as | thought the children would be happier at home. | loved Relief Society, every minute of it. It was like a new world to me and | came home stimulated and enthused. Soon | found that if | could get everything cleaned by one o'clock on Wednesday, | could do it every other day, too. In Relief Society | learned many new ways of doing things, new recipes, new shortcuts in housework, and wonderful ways of working with children. All this, and even more, from participating in the wonderful lessons that made me read and study. Then the time was changed to morning, bright and early at ten o'clock. But | couldn't give up now. So | worked around the house at night when the youngsters were in bed, so | could be ready for Relief Society in the morning. What a sense of accomplishment it was to go off knowing things were in order at home. Oh, yes, | almost forgot—now the children were going with me. They didn't want to stay home from the Relief Society nursery. Another challenge came. | was called to teach the social! Science lessons. What a wonderful blessing! | suppose teaching is in my blood. Both Father and Mother taught at Utah State University, but | had never taught before. How | studied, prayed, prepared, and fasted. It was one of the most thrilling experiences of my life. It still is! | can hardly wait for my lesson time to come each month. | am now teaching the theology lessons, and they are an inspiration to me. | have a wonderful husband, seven precious children, and a life that is so full and good | feel blessed beyond my fondest dreams. | am able to enjoy these blessings because | have learned to manage time wisely, eliminate the things that aren't really important, and have learned to love and appreciate and really enjoy my family. | know that motherhood is the noblest calling in life. These lessons | learned from Relief Society. | love it from the bottom of my heart, and will spend my life trying to help other mothers appreciate it and see what it can do for their lives. 750 Sixth Year | Eva Willes Wangsgaard Littlest angel is entered in school. My! He's grown inches, so tall and so wise. Leastwise, he has if you use his own rule And read the new measurements through his own eyes. Littlest angel's a student brand new— Head up, chin in, and shoulders held square. He speaks of new friends and homework to do, "Two-times.. Something inside me says, ''Mother, let go. Never let loneliness show in your face. Step out to meet him and let your heart grow. This year you launched a new man into space." Supplicacion Beatrice Lopez.' and "'two plus'' and ''something to share." éPorque te Ileva esos vientos? Cuando s6lo por pedir, es cierto. Esta Vida, dulce y dolorosa. Pide que sea cumplidora. Deja que murmure ese viento. Siente este corazon viviente. Esta vida te of rece tanto. Solo, cumple ti segundo estado. éPorque te lleva esos vientos? Cuando solo por pedir, siento. Que en Tus Manos yo reposo Libre de peligro, yo gozo. éPorque te lleva esos vientos? Cuando solo por pedir, es cierto. Translation Why let the winds take you? When for the asking, it is so. This life so sweetly painful Ask that you find fulfillment. Let the wind whisper to you. Feel this living heart. This life offers you so much. Only, keep your second estate. Why let the winds take you When for the asking, | feel In your hand, | rest, Finding happiness, free from harm? Why let the wind take you When for the asking, it is so? 751 EEE ee ee @ There was a time in my life when, as I washed the dishes or the floors, or ironed the clothes, I counted the things I didn't have and pressed resentment for not having them deep down into my heart. I totaled the troubles I had and pressed them down as well. I added up my losses and made a pile of them over which to brood. While I was doing all of this I was a very unhappy person and probably not agreeable to be around. I do not do those things any more. One day I stood by a very dear friend who had lost her child. Suddenly I clutched my own child in my arms, and found I had everything a human being could desire, that I had never lost anything, and the only troubles I had were those I was making for myself. That was a turning of the road for me. I grieved with that family and did everything I could for them. It is asad commentary on my Christianity that sorrow had to come to someone to make me realize I had been living in an un-Christian manner. For dwelling on troubles and losses and limitations is as far from Christ's teaching as anything can be. It leads away from God instead of toward him. So now, as I wash the dishes or iron the clothes, my mind is as busy as it always was; but now my mouth is pulled up at the comers, where it used to be drawn down. J spend the time counting my blessings, counting what I have to be thankful for, and giving gratitude to God. In this process of self-examination I am amazed at the many things I have to be thankful for, amazed at the few small troubles which come to plague me. I'm sure that since I've changed my attitude toward life, life has changed its attitude toward me. I do have more blessings than I did before. I have fewer troubles without just ignoring or belittling them. I find I'm closer to God as well as being more in tune with the heart of humanity. I'm happier, I make others happier. It is good to turn one's road to happiness and joy. 752 Nancy W. Wilcox, Ogden, Utah, has expanded her interest in letter writing into composing poetry, which she has found to be a rewarding and challenging activity and an "'insurance against loneliness.'' She expresses in her writing the good things of life—family, home, community, and Church. ''Poetry writing cultivates a new awareness and interest in all cultural activities. It mirrors my own philosophies of things which | love and understand. It lifts the spirit and increases faith —the most potent weapon known to man.'' Mrs. Wilcox has served in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church, and is now a Relief Society visiting teacher. She is the mother of four sons and has fifteen grandchildren, and Joves to keep records of the important happenings in her family. She has made many albums, using kodak pictures, honor awards, and other important mementos. Each son's life story has been recorded in pictures, from his infancy to his wedding day, and each daughter-in-law has received the record book as a wedding present that no one else could give—— priceless and beautiful. The Crown of Years Nancy W. Wilcox Could | but tread the paths I trod, It pleases change to follow me And hear the music that was sung, And like my shadow round me clings, Relive the busy, wholesome hours Dictates and molds my destiny, When time and years were young, Unfolds life's fairest things. Rekindle all my lofty thoughts Time treads the earth with rhythmic pace, Born of youth's impatient yearning, Nor stops, nor waits, nor hours reclaim, I'd feel the glow, the magic touch He stamps his mark upon my face Of springtime returning.... Writes years against my name. 753 inside and out An Apple Rowena Jensen Bills An apple is fulfillment! Lt is matured blossoms from shading trees, Spring's ball of green—sour, and quickly tasted, Red crabapples—jellied in jars, Crunchy lunch around a seeded core, A yellow transparent, honey-sweet in dew, The nectar of cool October and November, Fresh apple pie and apple sauce, Symbol of a bushel basket, Saucy, juicy grin of youth, Smell of winter basements and small markets, An apple is a green, red, or yellow skin Enclosing nature's bounty! Sweeping Out the Cobwebs Maxine T. Grimm @ You don't have to return to a neglected or vacated house to find cobwebs—the spiders are busy all the time. After all, they have more time than we do, and, too, they have their houses to build. Nevertheless, as I was sweeping the cobwebs from my ceiling, I conceived another 'Household Sermonette." It might be a good idea to start sweeping a few cobwebs, not only from our ceiling, but from our lives to clear our vision to the beauty of God's world. There are endless cobwebs—ignorance, temper, stubbornness, procrastination, neglect, laziness, impatience, exasperation—you could go on and on. Does the cobweb of ignorance keep you from enjoying the great achievements of man? Does it make you accept less than your due on earth because you don't fully understand the scriptures? Can you observe the beauty of a sunset till it stirs you inside and sends chills up your spine, or does the cobweb of impatience cause you to see only the passing of time and a late appointment? Can you respond to the joy of your son making his first home run, or have you shackled yourself with the cobweb of stubbornness and insist that he wipe his muddy shoes first, and so spoil a magic moment? Did you cheer up a lonely neighbor as you had promised, or are you enmeshed in the cobweb of procrastination—you have too much to do, you haven't the time—there are shopping and cleaning and children and meetings? Can you give your Relief Society lessons with true inspiration, or are they clouded by the cobwebs of neglect in preparation and research? When your husband looks as if he is carrying a problem, do you draw him out to see if you can help, or do you let your cobweb of impatience for getting household things done promptly, interfere? Do you waste precious time complaining about a torn ironing cover, a lost hammer, a cracked window, rather than admit that the cobweb of neglect has entangled your action? Let us dispel these cobwebs of ignorance with learning. Our Church sponsors this. There are endless opportunities. Relief Society meetings are an excellent beginning. Dispel the cobweb of temper with control, the cobweb of procrastination with action, stubbornness with a consideration of others, neglect with interest, impatience with patience, laziness with activity, and exasperation with inspiration. What are your cobwebs? List them, and one by one dissolve them with their own dissolving agent. To help us the beauty of God's world to see— Sweep out the cobwebs wherever they may be. 755 New SWEATERS for Old Alta Williams @ Have you ever had a sweater that you really enjoyed wearing? When it finally developed a few small holes, did you wish that you could mend it so that the holes would not be noticeable? Well, you know the old saying "Where there's a will, there's a way." My favorite sweater is beige. When I noticed some small holes in it, I was very reluctant to part with it. This is what I did, and you can do it, too. 1. Mend the holes with matching thread. 2. Lay the sweater on a newspaper and cut pattern pieces 4 inch bigger than the sweater. 3. Buy sufficient lace to cover the sweater or to make designs to cover the holes. 4. Cut off the buttons to be re-sewed later, if you are covering the whole sweater. 5. Hand stitch the lace pattern pieces to the sweater. 6. To give your sweater a more finished look, roll the cuffs and bottom ribbing under and hand stitch. This project was such a success that I covered all of my old sweaters with various designs, using matching lace or contrasting lace. You can create many fascinating sweaters which will have that personal touch and be very different from others that you see. Some sweaters can be successfully camouflaged for as little as thirty cents. Just cut out the flower motifs from the lace and make an attractive pattern on the sweater. If you have grown tired of a sweater, try this: Make a plaid skirt that will coordinate with the sweater. Use the scrap material from the skirt to trim the sweater. Try springy flowers made from yarn to give an old sweater new interest. Put one piece of yarn the length of a pencil, slitting the eraser and end of the pencil to hold yarn. Wrap more yarn twenty times around the pencil-length yarn. And the pencil, horizontally. Take the two end pieces of pencil-length yarn and tie them tightly around the wrapped yarn in a square knot. Slip this off the pencil and it springs into a lovely flower. Trim off the excess yarn and attach it to the sweater with a contrasting French knot. Embroider some green leaves for these flowers, and presto, you have another new sweater. This do-it-yourself project really helps perk up a back-to-school wardrobe and is so easy on the budget. It brings hours of enjoyment to the creative person who can always think up new ideas for old sweaters. 756 tee pattern lace variations \ 1 ] Ne, POA a ~% slit to anchor yarn oD we Oe Lael rer oratt Mi] c. Fi h j Bes A Seo bar of ih, y sweater trimmed to match skirt st sion qi 4 af Fe y whe a Si OS ai a ' Bi ee Bi BR a = +. W o 2 n x ee ° > Cc - 5 > > -O fe) 2 iS 2 = = 758 Dorothy J. Robert Housewife Confession Alberta H. Christensen One self of me is disciplined And orderly her ways, Keeps figure neat and diet-thinned, Time-budgets weeks and days. In thrifty mood the fruit is canned, The sock is darned, each menu planned; With curtains crisp as springtime salad, She thinks of neither ode nor ballad. The other self, refusing tether, Would walk no charted lane, Saves heart-space for the scented heather, Would socialize with wind and rain. She lingers on a greening hill Where broom has never swept, nor will. Can she who hears the door of autumn turn Be much concerned if sometimes carrots burn? 759 y (luantity Cooking lor Relief Society Functions ——____ Part |. Salads Rosa Shurtz ressing. Greens should be washed and dried so the dressing will cling better hours, drained, and then mixed with other Ingredients, This gives POTATO SALAD 534 ats. Cooked, diced Potatoes 1 tsp. Pepper 1 qt. Chopped celery YS c. White vinegar le. Chopped green onions 1 c. Salad oil 2c. Thinly sliced radishes 1 dozen €ggs, hard-boiled 1 qt. Chopped cucumbers I c. Hot dog relish 3 tbsp. Salt 1 c. Salad dressing Toss first nine ingredients together. Marinate several hours. Add eggs and remaining ingredients, Chill. Yielg: 50 Servings, VY Cc. Each. CURRIED RICE SALAD 14 c. Cubed cooked turkey or chicken 7 Cc. Chopped celery C. Uncooked rice 134 «¢. Chopped Breen pepper 134 ¢. Minced 8reen onions (use tops) 414 c. Salad dressing % c. Cider Vinegar 1 tbsp. Salt, or salt to taste 1 c. Salad oil 2 Cc. Sweet Pickle relish 2 tbsp. Curry powder together and edd celery and green pepper. Serve 2/3 Cc. Per Person, in lettuce Cups. Yield 50 servings. THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT CARROT SALAD SUPREME 7 Ibs. Carrots, ground coarsely and 1 large pkg. Miniature marshmallows drained 1 qt. Light cream 2 pkgs. Golden seedless raisins salt to taste Soak raisins and marshmallows overnight in the cream. Fold in carrots, salt to taste, and add some sugar if needed. If salad isn't moist enough, whip cream into salad dressing and add until right consistency. If too moist, drain slightly. Yield 50 servings. EASY PEACH SALAD 50 peach halves, drained 1 tsp. Salt 1 pt. Cream, whipped 2 tsp. Vinegar 14 c. Prepared horse radish, drained 2 tbsp. Sugar Fold all ingredients except peaches into whipped cream. Place peach halves on lettuce leaf and fill with spoonful of cream mixture. Yield 50 servings. CHICKEN SALAD 2 tsp. Granulated chicken bouillon 7 c. Diced celery 4 tsp. Hot water 16 hard-boiled eggs 1 qt. Salad dressing 1 small jar pimentos 114 Ibs. Cooked elbow macaroni 1144 qts. Cooked frozen peas 3 Ibs. Diced cooked chicken Dissolve boullion in hot water, beat into salad dressing. Chill cooked macaroni. Add to other ingredients and mix thoroughly with dressing. Serve in lettuce cups or in scooped out tomatoes. Yield 50 servings. TOSSED SALAD 10 heads lettuce, torn in bite-size 1 medium-sized green pepper, pieces thinly sliced 5 bunches radishes, thinly sliced 3 bunches celery, diced 2 Ibs. Coarsely grated carrots 1 bunch watercress, chopped 1 medium onion, sliced thin, separated 8 medium-sized tomatoes, cut in thin into rings wedges and drained 3 medium-sized cucumbers, thinly sliced Toss with favorite oil and vinegar dressing. Season to taste. Yield 50 servings. NOTE: toasted bread croutons; quartered, hard-boiled eggs; bacon, fried crisp and crumbled, may be added. RICE FRUIT SALAD 2 qts. Uncooked rice 1 large pkg. Miniature marshmallows 1 family size pkg. Vanilla pudding 114 qts. Diced raw unpeeled apples Cook according to directions 3 c. Sugar 2 no. 21% cans crushed pineapple salt to taste drained 1 qt. Whipped cream Cook rice according to directions. Mix together with pudding and pineapple and cool. Add marshmallows, apples, sugar and salt to taste. Just before serving, fold in whipped cream. Yield: 50 servings. Variation: use petite macaroni in place of rice and add chopped maraschino cherries and nuts. 761 OCTOBER 1965 CREAMY LIME SALAD 1 no. 10 can crushed pineapple, 2 qts. Creamed cottage cheese drained 1 qt. Mayonnaise 1 c. Lemon juice 1 qt. Finely chopped celery Drained pineapple juice and water to 1 pt. Chopped nuts make 2 ats. 4 tsp. Salt 1 qt. Lime-flavored gelatin 4 tsp. Grated lemon rind 4 tall cans evaporated milk, chilled Drain pineapple. Add lemon juice and enough water to pineapple syrup to make two quarts. Heat half of liquid to boiling. Pour over gelatin and stir until dissolved. Stir in remaining liquid and milk. Cool until partially set, stirring frequently to keep smooth. Blend cheese, pineapple, mayonnaise, celery, nuts, salt and lemon rind into gelatin mixture. Chill until firm, serve in squares on lettuce leaf. Yield: 50 servings. PEAR SALAD 1 c. Whipped cream 1 no. 2 can crushed pineapple, 14 c. Sugar drained 4 c. Mayonnaise 50 pear halves, canned and drained Whip cream until stiff. Add sugar. Fold into mayonnaise. Fold in pineapple and mix carefully. Serve on pear halves placed on lettuce leaves. A sprinkle of finely chopped nuts or a maraschino cherry may be added for decoration. CRANBERRY CREAM SALAD 1 Ib. Miniature marshmallows 1/3 c. Lemon juice 114 qts. Whole cranberry sauce 1% tsp. Salt 114 qts. Crushed pineapple, well 1 pt. Heavy cream, whipped drained Combine marshmallows, cranberries, pineapple, lemon juice, and salt. Mix thoroughly and fold in whipped cream. Chill several hours before serving or freeze to serve if desired. Serve in lettuce cups. Yield: 50 servings. LEMONADE SALAD 34 c. Unflavored gelatin 1 no. 10 can pineapple chunks, 1 32 oz. Can frozen lemonade drained concentrate 2 12 oz. Pkgs. Frozen strawberries water and pineapple syrup to make or 3 qts. 24 oz. Maraschino cherries mayonnaise with whipped cream added Soften gelatin in concentrated lemonade for five minutes. Heat water and syrup to boiling. Add gelatin and stir until dissolved. Coo! Until it begins to set. Add pineapple and berries or cherries which have been well drained. Pour into flat pans and chill until set. Serve in lettuce cups with mayonnaise to which whipped cream has been added. Yield: 50 servings each 2 in. Square. NOTE: For variation fruit salad mixture may be used in place of crushed 'or tidbit pineapple in any salad recipe. DATE MALLOW SALAD 10 c. Pineapple chunks, well drained 1 1/3 c. Mayonnaise 31% c. Dates cut in tiny pieces 5 heads lettuce 1! B. Miniature marshmallows 1 c. Coarsely chopped pecans 1 c. Heavy whipping cream Combine pineapple, dates, marshmallows. Whip cream until stiff and fold into mayonnaise. Fold into fruit and marshmallows. Chill. Place one-half cup of mixture on lettuce leaf for each serving. Sprinkle with tsp. Of nuts. May be decorated with a sprig of mint if desired. Yield: 50 servings. 762 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT BASIC JEWEL SALAD 8 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin 2 c. Mild white vinegar 2 c. Cold water 14 c. Lemon juice 2 c. Hot water salt to taste 2 c. Sugar 6 c. Pineapple juice Soften gelatin in cold water. Add hot water and stir until gelatin dissolves. Add sugar, vinegar, lemon juice, salt, and pineapple juice. Stir well and chill until it begins to thicken. Fold in combinations desired. Pour into pans and chill until set. Cut into squares, serve on lettuce leaf, garnish with mayonnaise. Combinations 8 c. Chopped cucumbers 8 c. Finely shredded cabbage 8 c. Canned pineapple tidbits 8 c. Fruit salad mixture or 1 pkg. Miniature marshmallows 8 c. Grated carrots or or 6 c. Diced celery 2 c. Chopped nutmeats Yield: 50 servings Katherine F. Larsen May each child's sun-blessed world be beautiful For him alone; May each find unique treasure hour by hour— A polished stone, Sand dollars, starfish, cool shells shaped like ears, A rubbery strand Of wave-strewn kelp, gull feathers, driftwood chunks, Etchings in sand.... And may! Cherish each eager look, each smile Turning my way; Each proffered marvel brought from abundant seas— Gifts of this day; Long silences filled with surf sound, shouts of joy Wafted on wind; - Small running footprints erased by water ae Downward thinned.... And may each child meet swooping, curling waves Laughing, nor fear Rough-tumbling surf; then, red sun gone, When stars appear, Pricking a darkening sky, let brown toes spurn The swirling foam; Sunned bodies turn from those vast, chill seas To my hands—and home. 763 8 c. Pineapple tidbits 8 c. Diced apples, unpeeled Every Day Is the Same Gene Prentice w@ It was a beautiful day some years ago, when IJ said to a neighbor woman, "Good morning, how are you?" Without any hesitation or jest, she answered, "Every day is the same." I don't know if it was her Boston accent or her tone of complete despair, but, somehow, this remark became locked in my memory. Could she have referred, I wondered, to the sunrise and sunset... To the repeated tasks... Three meals to fix... Babies to be fed... Husband off to work and home again... Always at the same time... And finally, bedtime? My thoughts, however, were soon lost in the din of laughter of my small children. I recalled this incident recently when we had a series of unfortunate events in our home, the last of which was a broken water heater. After unhappy days of inconvenience, my husband completed the repair of the tank. Once again, the water ran hot and clean into my washing machine, as I prepared to do the long overdue family laundry. Suddenly, the thought came to me, 'How grand it is to be able to wash clothes!" The smell of the fresh, clear water, the soap foaming in eager abundance, plus the quick churning of my machine, filled my heart with gladness. It was then that my thoughts turned back to that little woman. I saw again her wistful little face, as I recalled her bleak and empty answer. Once again, I wondered why the windows of her life had been so tightly closed as to admit no sunshine at all. Though each of us is, perhaps, guilty of feeling that life is sometimes dull and monotonous, if we were to reverse our thoughts, how great would be our joy. Do we really appreciate the sun which rises to brighten our day... Our eyes with which to see it... Our ability to enjoy it? Are we thankful as adults for our husbands, who share our lives... For precious children whose care brings such happiness... For the day so hot our lungs are scorched, the better to appreciate the rain... For the wintry winds to sweep the landscape clean... Are we aware of these things? 764 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Are we grateful enough for simple joys like the first sign of spring as a narcissus breaks the brown earth... The song of a bird... A waterfall... The sound of a distant train whistle... The bright little face of a pansy... A baby's sweet breath... The fragrance of clean clothes... The sparkle of a fresh-washed window... A glowing fire _.. Buttered popcorn... A nursery rhyme... And Santa Claus? Do we take for granted the homes in which we live... Our Church... Our countries... Our schools? Finally, I thought, if every day is the same, thanks, dear Lord, for this, too. Thanks that I am able to grow by repetition... For my role as wife and mother... Thanks for the grass so green and trees so tall. Thanks for the noise and disorder of children who brighten my home. Thanks for their kisses and confidences. Thanks for my two hands with which to build. Thanks for the love in the eyes of a husband so fine and strong, and for the happiness which is ours. Thanks for our priceless Family Home Evenings. Thanks for the gospel and for God. How meaningless our lives would be without these blessings. And, as my thoughts winged on, I said softly, "Thank you, God, for that bright morning years ago and that wistful little woman." "Every day is the same," came the words again... And today I was privileged to grow a little. As I kneel tonight, I shall pray that she has somehow learned to enjoy richly the sameness of each day. And, dear Lord, may I add, "Thank you for prayer." Combing a Granddaughter's Hair Christie Lund Coles Like red-brown wings, the touch _ Transports me backward to When | combed your mother's hair, How it lifted, flew Like softest milkweed fluff Blown by the wind, in sun, So warm, so soft, oh, child, Thus is a memory begun: Her young impatience, too, Her fair face lifted, turned; Her cheek close to my own. Such is a memory learned. And then, your smile of pride, Your kiss with love distilled; Your arms encircling me... Thus is a hope fulfilled. 765 Gleanings From the Season of Harvest "Lovely Growing Old'' or lovely growing old" like an old house with a granite foundation and filled throughout with the patina of fond memories would be satisfying. There is loveliness in a face wrinkled and shadowed, in hair thinned and silvered, in hands roughened and blemished, when all are mellowed with gentleness and love coming from long service. Eyes that show suffering and forbearance, wet with tears of sympathy and understanding of the vicissitudes of life, and of the goodness of God in spite of all, are beautiful in a sense that young, sparkling eyes can never be. Shoulders stooped a little with life's storms, bodies thickened with hard work and the bearing of children are marks of a beautiful character. I have been known to say in times past, "I don't want to grow old, to show the wear of years, to be gray and wrinkled." Am I inconsistent? For I love old lines, old furniture, old houses, old laces, old silver. If I can be lovely growing old, I am sure I shall be ready for it as I see it approaching. —Caroline Eyring Miner The Hardy Ones | es us not laugh at the small, scrubby flower living precariously away from a flower garden. It has had to fight for its chance with weeds and drought. It may be small and gnarled, but it smiles brightly in a hard place. It is the hardy one, and it has seeds that may grow tall and strong and straight, bringing beauty down the generations. Such hardy ones among people were the pioneers, who came to the hard places and made them beautiful for us, their children. —Celia Luce imperishable Splendor | WALKED once in Bohemia's aged forests, through the wild-rose scented grove, through hovering leaves. I found earth's beauty, oh, so grand! My soul was touched by its imperishable splendor. I knelt in a prayer of reverence for this glorious bloom of spring, the handwork of him who has also enriched our hearts with song, wisdom, and undying faith. It is through life's difficulties that we receive our greatest education and are made to realize its values. In later years we can make the greatest use of this education as we live in the golden sunset of harvest time. Let us strive always to know ourselves — our gifts and our talents, however small — and to use them for the enrichment of all. —Pauline M. Bell 766 The Diligent Gardener A certain man planted a good seed, cultivated, and irrigated it. Soon it flourished and spread. The results were profuse growth in every direction. Other plants and forms of life with which it came in contact became more healthy and alive. But, in another place, a man was not particular in the choice of seed which he planted. Nor did he irrigate and weed his field. The results were smaller plants, hardly surviving in spots, and certainly not giving much beauty to plants with which they came in contact. So it is with the gospel of Jesus Christ and its effect upon our lives. By an active desire to increase knowledge and serve, our lives may become abundant. Others, too, will benefit. But by personal indifference our lives and the lives of others with whom we come in contact will be much more barren. —Colleen Layland A: ]: ae y 4 Be ~ os a ' * F. '. A - q yy = Heart "\% Chapter 6 Shirley Thulin @ Joan was at the door of the emergency entrance almost as soon as the ambulance was. Her heart was pounding frantically, Who is it? She kept asking herself. Oh, why don't they hurry? It seemed as if it took so very long to open the doors at the back of the vehicle and lower the stretcher to the cement driveway. It's someone little, she told herself, for she could just see a small head against the whiteness of the sheet. It's a little boy, she now knew... Aloud she said, "It's Joey." Joan was still inside the big glass doors of the hospital, and she knew she must stay there. She had no business running out to help them roll the stretcher as she wanted to. She knew she couldn't go too near until after 768 SL he was admitted properly, though every part of her wanted to take the child and hold him close. Kathy, she thought. I must get Kathy. And she was about to, when she saw Mr. And Mrs. Kirk pull into the driveway. Mrs, Kirk was crying. Not a heavy cry, but a silent one, and her eyes were swollen. They got out and followed the men and the stretcher through the doors. "Mrs. Kirk, what happened? Do you feel like telling me?" Joan put her arm around the woman, who just shook her head. "He fell from a horse," Mr. Kirk said. "Tl go get Kathy." Joan hurried toward the elevator. The second floor nurse station was as it usually was, two or three nurses writing, phoning, questioned, but J, 'He fel] from a horse. He's still UNConscious, * Tight Words, "Th; Worse at first," ¢ they Sot to ¢ figure Now on the hospita] bed in RING AROUND HER HEART "Oh, Mama," Joan Suddenly didn't belong there. Little Joey Was her fy; nd, but s €& was not Part of his I nd had no y any- - He hurried Into the Toom and closed the door behind around her neck, he Couldn't Just sit and wait, OCTOBER 1965 tell them that he was her special little friend, but she didn't. She went about her routine with a sickness inside her, and each time the elevator door opened, she expected to see them bringing Joey up for surgery. But they didn't bring him. The afternoon became evening, and she couldn't find anything more to busy herself with, so she went back down to the first floor. She had to know. "Ts there any word on the Kirk boy?" she asked of the floor nurse. "Nothing yet. They have really been working on him." "Any order for surgery prep?" "No." "How about X-ray?" "Not yet." Joan bit her lip. This was bad, for she knew that if Doctor Desmond hadn't ordered X-rays or surgery, the child was losing ground. I feel so helpless, she thought, just like the other times. When the door finally opened, she hurried towards it. It was Doctor Desmond. "How is he?" "Very bad, Joan. He's not going to make it." He stepped over to the desk and said something to the floor nurse. Joan just stood there. The tears were spilling over, and she didn't even wipe them away. They were somehow soothing to her. She turned away so the doctor wouldn't see her cry. It seemed. Hours before the door opened again and Kathy came out with her mother and father. "You must get some rest," she was telling them, "T'll stay with Java la Joan watched as Kathy took them to a little room down the 770 hall where Mrs. Kirk could lie down. When Kathy came back, Joan hurried to her. "Kathy, let me stay with him. You should get some rest, too." "T'm all right, Joan. Thanks." "Please, Kathy. It might be better for Joey if you left." "T've told Mom I'd stay." Doctor Desmond came over to them. He put his arm around Kathy's shoulders. "Come on, Kathy, let me take you to your room. I'll tell you immediately if there's any change." Kathy let him take her by the hand, and they went down the hall together. J oAN stepped into the dim room, The little form on the bed was so still that it frightened her. She sat beside Joey and began to talk softly to him, but he did not stir. And the night passed in unreality. The nurses who came silently with their tiny flashlights, checking and changing the upside down bottles of clear liquid which dripped through tubes, were like figures in a stage play. The silent figures in white who came to take temperatures and wrap the wide gray cloth around the tiny arm and squeeze the bulb to see if there were any change in the blood pressure, were like characters from a long-ago book. Even Doctor Desmond and Kathy and Mr. And Mrs. Kirk, who hovered near through the night, seemed unreal. "Joan, you need to go get some rest." Doctor Desmond had come in again, and she felt his hand on her shoulder, gentle and warm. She felt like reaching up and putting her hand on top of his, but she didn't. She just stood up and, Close to tears, hurTied out into the hall, room, David came towards her, "yj Any change?" "No, no change" | "You look tired." | 66 "T Mean J I am. Will you report for me?: Tell them [']] [ Vv €aving wij Word, J didn't €ven let h I @Ppreciated his of. Oo 7 "Tom Ship, she thought. 80 into the business Managment of the farm. C book on his Just being there Will be a moral ap. "Hi How' € English» help." Doctor Desmond had entered the m. "Good morning, Tom." Stood UP, and Without Orgotten th OM was Kirk's Neighbor. "Yes. Joey had a little "accient. But he wil] be all right," octor Desmond looked at Joan €n back t Om. "How's that to Joey? Ig he hurt bad?' "Yes, Tom. Joan told him, "but he. -." and She tried to tell him that Would be all yj b Couldn't. 772 "But you've got to tel] me." "We don't know yet," Doctor Desmond told him. "Tt will take a little While to find oy 'i € Was Richard's st' friend They were always together,. I "And ey will be again," "T'm Sorry," Joan Said when What's done js: "Ts Richard Tom's little broth- 7??? "Yes," They walked a ]j ttle way before Doctor i hoped that Doctor Desmond didn't Say anything foy a whi turned and smiled at her, "7 dare not disagree with you've been SO right about Tom from the emergency room for Doctor Desmond, Sent them both hurrying to the first floor, To be Continued) Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in ihie department through the stuke Relief Society presidents ar mission Rell idenits or supervisers, and should be addressed tu the Fulitorial ffemartionens Relief Society Magazine. 76 North Main. Salt Lake Cit i regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field ir 1964 issue of t I 1 Beaver Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 1, 1965 Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: "In spite of a severe snowstorm, we had fifty per cent attendance. This is quite remarkable when you consider the fact that out of the 216 visiting teachers, forty of them are past eighty years of age, and 105 are past seventy years of age. Kleda Gillins, stake visiting teacher leader, was in charge of the dramatization 'The Lighted Path,' which was given very effectively. Susie Beeson, First Counselor, spoke to the sisters regarding the duties and blessings attendant to their calls. Each visiting teacher was presented with a small gift and a booklet containing the summer messages. Refreshments were in charge of Zona Myers, Second Counselor." 773 OCTOBER 1965 Santa Barbara Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert May 22, 1965 Second row, standing, left to right: Gladys B. Carmack, President, Santa Barbara Stake Relief Society; Lillian Johnson, chorister; Gloria Dixon Strauss, violin soloist; Marcine Camp Jardine, vocal soloist. Third row, second from the left: Byrdenne Johnson, organist. Sister Carmack reports: "One hundred Singing Mothers of the Santa Barbara Stake inspired an audience of about 1,000 members and nonmembers, in the high school auditorium, presenting a concert of sacred and secular numbers. The chorus rehearsed two and three days a week for several months, many traveling thirty to forty miles for each rehearsal. Not only do we feel that we presented a cultural program for the community, but the proceeds, amounting to about $1,400, will help build our new stake center." Wilford Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Relief Society Beauty School Project May 7 and June 7, 1965 "Before" and "after" pictures, left to right: Erika Rabe "top specialist'; Elsie Fudge as "Susie"; Sara Paulsen as "Friend." Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: "The two pictures represent the before and after of 'Susie' at a Relief Society Beauty School given on May 7th for the daytime Relief Society, and on June 7th for the evening Relief Society. The skit illustrates how the beauty specialists help Susie with her problems. A style expert showed Susie how to sew for herself and how to teach her daughters to sew, and thus establish a closer bond between them; a literature expert presented the poem 'Opportunity', and a talent expert explained how Susie could become more self-confident. A theology expert explained the worth of a testimony of the gospel: and a social science expert discussed the benefits of the Family Home Evening, and that all should be 'doers of the word.' "The Singing Mothers sang and other numbers were presented by special groups. Thirty sisters modeled clothing they had made in the daytime program, and thirty mothers of teenage daughters modeled in the evening. Luncheon was served to over 500 women, and refreshments to 300 working women, husbands, and teenagers in the evening. Many non-Latter-day Saint and non-active women were present at each performance." Billings Stake (Montana) Singing Mothers Present Spring Musicale May 8, 1965 Seated in the front row, left to right, members of Billings Stake Relief Society board: Alvera O. White, Secretary-Treasurer; Nola B. Larsen, Second Counselor; Helen O. Thomas, President; Nellie T. Prindle, First Counselor; Maud J. DeVore; Lucy C. Taylor; Dixie R. Marasok; Agnes C. Crow; Julaine J. Cozzens, organist; Helen J. Peacock, chorister. Sister Thomas reports: "The Singing Mothers of Billings Stake presented a 'Spring Musicale—Let There Be Music' on May 8th. From the vibrant tones of the opening number 'Let There Be Music' to the grand finale 'This Is My Country,' it was a grand and glorious experience. Most of our wards and branches and our night Relief Society furnished one number each, and the combined chorus sang the opening number, the closing number, and 'As Angels in Heaven.' The songs were in four categories: the home; semi-classic; sacred; and patriotic. Mildred Wilson was the narrator." 774 Now Let Us Rejoice." left to right: eulah Astle: Margaret Mosj d rshott; R n i Y Sisters on differen co. © evenin n entury leath Mg Was an or; €n and Produced by argaret Mosier. OMe Par Y." Here there Was 5 dancin and look at the Minnesota Stake "Relief Society Has Presents Program Omething for Everyone" April 16, 1965 Nursery Scene, left to right: Ss annah Hoffman: S; Christine Barrus:; Susan Barrus. > Patricia Zollinger: Relief Society, reports: "In 8 items Were displayed, suc + and IC Made from; ers and the Sisters of the eley Was to introduce the Ociety Mag Ww. Ica] numbers. Jane A. P 776 M Pioneer life, then the Whole STOup bec 'Family Album' Thi azine. Stake Education Coun ouNselor LaNay avis SPearheaded the Program, With the © 4 part of a aS a series Of proj Ine, and Stake W, ] OCTOBER 1965 Rose Park Stake (Sait Lake City, Utah) "Swing Into Spring" Fashion Show April 7, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right, ward Presidents: Jean M. Aird; Virginia C. Boogert; Vera R. Nielsen; Donna A. Anderson; Virginia S. Hunt; Leah D. Back Tow, standing, left to right, ward counselors: Janice J. Anderson; Dorothy B. Hart; Helen O. Callahan: Barbara P. N ewman: Dorothy B. Monson; Polly T. Steenblik: Elaine H. Madsen; Myrle P. Goff; Bergliot P. Thompson; greatly stimulated." 778 a Lesson Department Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 68—Knowledge and Events of the Future (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:76-116) For First Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To learn the importance of missionary preparation; the place of education in the gospel; and of events of the future predicted. INTRODUCTION Among the many great truths revealed in Section 88, known as the "Olive Leaf," is the promise of seeing the Savior in his own time and in his own way, provided that the Church member will keep his mind single to God that light may dissipate darkness from mind and body (D&C 88: 67-68). With this counsel before the elders, they were admonished to assemble themselves together that they might purify their hearts in preparation for their ministry assignments (Verses 70- 75). PRAYER AND FASTING Immediately following these admonitions, the Lord commanded that his people fast and pray. Prayer and fasting have often 780 been counseled with many beneficial results promised. Elder James E. Talmage points out that faith is developed with the power to do good when one follows this counsel (Jesus the Christ, page 395; see also Mark 9:14-29). Alma received a testimony of the truth by fasting and praying over a long period of time (Alma 5:46). In order to qualify in missionary service there is a need to seek the Lord humbly through this method. Alma_ records that the sons of Mosiah, through diligent study and because "they had given themselves to much prayer and fasting," had the spirit of prophecy ''and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God" (Alma 17:2-3). One of the many benefits of fasting is to prepare one for sincere and humble prayer. The Lord, through his prophets, has instituted the fast day with its opportunity for devout prayer that the membership of his Church might realize, at least monthly, the benefits of this kind of devotion (D&C 88:76; Alma 6:6; 3 Nephi 27:1; Moroni 6:5). President David O. McKay indicated that fasting from two meals once each month and giving the value of these meals for the relief of those in need is the application of Jesus' teachings. (Conference Report, April 1932, page 65). The Prophet Joseph Smith emphasized the need for all to know God through prayer and to pray over one's temporal possessions (DHC V:31). This counsel joins prayer to keeping the commandments in bringing forth the blessings of the Father. Real intent is the measure of success in prayer and in all of one's devotions (Moroni 7:6-8). TEACH ONE ANOTHER In one of the better known admonitions from Section 88 is the counsel to teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom (D&C 88:77). Following this counsel to the early Church, the Lord pointed out the need to become schooled in all things that pertain to the kingdom of God (Verses 78-79). The foregoing advice was given to brethren who had been and would yet proclaim the gospel, as is evident from the verses which follow: That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to LESSON DEPARTMENT magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you. Behold, I sent you out to' testify and warn the people, and it becometh every man who hath been warned to warn his neighbor (Verses 80-81). In terms of missionary preparation, with what should the missionary become acquainted in following this instruction to be prepared by study? It is evident from the foregoing verses that the Lord wanted his servants, who were to warn and to testify of the restoration of the gospel, to learn those things which would be of greatest value in discharging this responsibility. Here are the essentials from verses 78 and 79, above: First and foremost, to learn of the law of the gospel that pertains to the kingdom of God, insofar as it was expedient for them to know. This is the study of the principles and ordinances of salvation, which, of course, includes those great moral precepts that should ever guide the Latterday Saint. President Brigham Young said: There are a great many branches of education: some go-to college to learn languages, some to study law, some to study physics, and some to study astronomy, and various other branches of science. We want every branch of science taught in this place that is taught in the world. But our favorite study is that branch which particularly belongs to the Elders of Israel — namely, theology. Every Elder should become a profound theologian — should understand this branch better than all the world. There is no Elder who has the power of God upon him but understands more of the principles of theology than all the world put together (Journal of Discourses 6:317). 781 OCTOBER 1965 Second, subjects which further prepare the missionary to testify and warn; that is, specific topics (e) "Things which are at home." (f) "Things which are abroad." (g) "The wars and the Perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the and." (h) "A knowledge also of countries." To the elders abroad in 1833, this counsel] was given: -.. Apply yourselves diligently to study, that your minds may be stored with all necessary information (DHC T: 469). ANOTHER APPLICATION It is true that verses 77 through 79, and especially the latter, when disassociated from their context science, languages, geography, and current events (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 556). From the beginning of the dispensation the leaders of the have encouraged the membership to become educated in the things of God secular subjects, President Brigham Young expressed this in these words: Not only does the religion of Jesus hrist' make the People acquainted 782 with the things of God, and develops within them and are designed for the good of His people (Journal of iscourses, 13: 147). President John Taylor indicated his feelings Tegarding the eventual Place of the Latter-day in Prophesying that Zion will be ahead of the world even in secular learning (Lbid., 21:100). The following remarks of two later presidents of the Church emphasize the Purpose of education: President David O. Gaining knowledge is one thing and for which the Church stands — jg the application of A man may possess gq Profound knowledge of history and of matheI may be Pertaining to Seology and natural] has not with this holiness in Personal truly educated man our work is not finished, but just begun.: Doctrine, Page 269). Because Latter-day Saints believe that the temporal affairs of life have their spiritual meaning, the incentive to become educated is given greater stimulus (D&C 29:34-35). It seems necessary, always, to keep in mind that the salvation principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ save in this life and in the life to come and should never be neglected in preference to secular learning as such. MISSIONARY RESPONSIBILITY The missionary prepared to teach the principles of salvation and to lear the essentials of his environment in further preparing himself, is told that he should testify and warn the people. Today, as in 1882, all are to make known the principles of the gospel. This responsibility, so discharged, would free the missionary from the blood of his generation and leave the world without excuse (Ibid., 88:81-82). Those people who would come to the Lord early would never be forsaken by him (Verse 83; Lesson 37, Relief Society Magazine, November 1961). BE FREE To be a true disciple of the Lord is to be free (John 8:31- 32). The elders of the Church were to continue in the freedom which they had received through the gospel of Jesus Christ. The converts of 1832 had come out of the world to become citizens of the kingdom of God. To them the Lord addressed these words: Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes (D&C 88:86). LESSON DEPARTMENT In terms of the person's purpose in life, true freedom is to be free from those practices which hinder one from advancing on to the goal of eternal perfection. When the Prophet Joseph Smith defined salvation, he said: '"Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet" (DHC V:387). Examples of man's enemies are the antonyms of the virtues such as those found in Section 4—skepticism, ignorance, hate, intolerance, fear, selfishness, and so forth. Members of the Church have found a new life in Jesus Christ through the benefits of release from the bondage of sin into freedom, a freedom which must be continually maintained through prayer, activity in the Church, and obedience to the other commandments. Habits and practices which bring one into bondage are contrary to the freedom which the gospel teaches one should seek. "Entangle not yourselves in sin" (D&C 88:86). The words of Elder James E. Talmage suggest to one that the person who lives close to sin in printed material, television, movies, etc., may soon find himself in bondage. Hosts of capable souls have heedlessly put themselves into the enemy's power by yielding to the treacherous invitation to fraternize with sin. Such a one is made welcome in the camp of the foe, and at first a visitor, he sooner or later awakens to the fact that he is a prisoner, and withal a deserter from the ranks of patriotism and honor... (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 ed., page 335). UNTIL THE LORD COMES From the beginning of this dispensation, the warning voice of 783 & the urMissionaries Were Proclaimin fospel in the World » and their p Pose was Stated as: aS follows (D&C Tepresen tatives of Our return of the Prince of Peace to reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords (The Deseret News, December 14, one of which Was "the Sign of the 784 - +. There will be War: of Wars, signs In the heavens above © earth bene of Man, Which wil] © Morning cometh (DHC V: 337), THE SEVEN TRUMPS Seven angels are to Sound their mentioning Several of ¢ ' s the devi] armies Shall be cas (Verse 106). Away a their own Place, that they Shall] not have OWer over t I ALL THINGS To pg KNOWN a ne saints any more at During the millenium the solyFor ichael shal] figh tion of man exin problems ho seeketh concerning the e in- © throne of him wh Sitteth upon i © given (D&C © throne, the Lamb (Ibid 101:32.34 The Lord has re. Verses 14-115) vealed that for each f the seven With he fina] efeat o th Cusand years of the earth' evil and follo ers, they will e€mporal existence since Adam's € Cast into hell w ich wag preal', Men's acts have been recordPared foy h from he begined. The revealing of he Secret ning (Ibid:38; 76:4 ). Then acts of men and "the oughts follows the g Nding of the last and intents of their hearts"? And three angels' Tumps alr, dy men € mighty Works of od in each tioned, anno Ncing the Judgment one of these Seven Periods, will e fall of ickedness, and the occur during the millennia] period Yrlumph God Work for the of peace and Totherhoog upon Salvation of men (Thi +» 88:103 © earth (Jb; - 88:108-1 0; 77: "/,; 12; Lesgo 56, Re lef Society Wazine, February 1964), QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSsion 1. What are some benefits of fasting POST-MILLENNIAL EVENTS and praying? 2. In What way do you fee] that The last Sreat effort of Satan Section 88: 78-79 has Contributeg © ascend to the throne of God to Latter-day Saint belief regard. Will come When he jg loosed at the ing education? €nd of the millennium, 4 great 3. VY is our Tspensation a ae ivision among he people Will re —- a = am _. Sult when Sat. €lgns for a litt] 4. What diq Jesus mean hen he S€ason. He will gather together Said: « ye shall know t ls forces co prising the Spirits truth an the truth Shall mak who followeq h n the pre. Thu free"? (See John 8 32. A escribe the events Predicted as Mortal worlq hose Mortals ollowing the Who 4postatized rom the truth at 785 € most impressive serMons on the evils of idleness and | using one's away our time a dd OU use it effectively, The Portance of industry and the evil of idleness are em. Phasizeq and Teemphasized in the Scriptures. For example, in ExoPassages which warn us about the evils of idleness. For example we Tead "Tet every ma diligent Nn all things, And th Idler shal] Not have Place jn h Church" (D&C 75:29: The PPosite of idlenegg Is industriousness One who is industrious jg Steadily and Persever- py ingly active. He is painstakingly busy and diligent and is devoted to lawful and useful labor. We should all be eternally grateful for the blessings of work and for the development that purposeful industry brings to each of us. Charles Kingsley has said, "Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do that day which must be done, whether you like it or not. Being forced to work, and foresu to do your best, will breed in you temperance and self-control, diligence and strength of will, cheerfulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the idle never know" (as quoted in Marler, Ezra L.: Golden Nuggets of Thought, Volume II, page 148). Without doubt the most effective medicine to heal discontent and drive away discouragement is purposeful and diligent work. Most of us have within us the necessary power for useful, progressive and successful lives. If we apply the abilities which may lie dormant within us, our powers WORK MEETING LESSON DEPARTMENT for accomplishment will develop and grow. We are now living during a period of remarkable opportunities, when the Lord has poured out his spirit upon the inhabitants of the earth, It is a glorious and choice opportunity for each of us to be a part of this great progress, and to be able, through industry and work, to make our small, but most important contribution. For our own happiness and success, we should heed this commandment of the Lord as stated in the Doctrine and Covenants 88:124. We must not fritter away our time in useless, idle, and unimportant pursuits. If we are industrious we will aspire, plan, organize, concentrate, use our initiative, analyze, and accomplish. These are the ingredients of constructive work and _ the tools of satisfying success. Let us, then, be up and doing, With a heart for any fate; Still achieving, still pursuing, Learn to labor and to wait. (Longfellow, "Psalm of Life'') The Work Meeting Discussion for January 1966 will appear in the November issue of the Magazine. 787 SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 1 (No. 13 in Series) Priesthood in the Life of Every Latter-day Saint Woman For Third Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To show how the Latter-day Saint woman shares INTRODUCTION TO 1966 LESSONS In January 1965 the "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" lessons were introduced as a course of study designed to correlate with lessons being studied by Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. Lesson 1 also stated that the lessons supported the Home Teaching Program of the Church. It was felt that through this course and this correlation, the Latter-day Saint woman would understand more clearly her role as wife and mother and would be encouraged to support her husband in his spiritual leadership of the family. It was hoped that through this correlation of lessons, the roles of the father and the mother would be more clearly understood; that parents would work unitedly in teaching the principles of the gospel to their children and would strive earnestly to bring a fulness of the gospel into their home. An understanding of the roles of father and of mother requires a consideration of the various 788 in the blessings of the Priesthood. Relationships of the family—husband to wife, parents to children, children to children. Some obligations of each member of the family, and of the family as a unit to the Church and to the community were discussed in the lessons. The social science lessons for 1966 will continue to correlate with those being studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. They will represent, in general, the woman's position in relation to some of the subjects with which they correlate. Relief Society sisters will be in an advantageous position in the first lesson, which deals with the Priesthood, having recently completed a well-prepared and wellwritten course on the nature and function of Priesthood as an instrument for Church government. They are, therefore, generally familiar with the operation of Priesthood as the "power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately" (WipTsor, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 33). They are familiar with the statement that "the Church itself is a product of Priesthood" and the means through which the Eternal Father accomplishes his divine purposes. LESSON FOLLOW-UP Invite several members of the class to report on their efforts to make their 1965 observation of Christmas more meaningful and in keeping with its purpose, as suggested in the December lesson. THIS LESSON Since the first unit of Priesthood quorum lessons deals with the subject of Priesthood, this lesson will likewise deal with some phases of this great power. It will be, of necessity, largely doctrinal, and will consider 1. Priesthood as an eternal blessing to all of God's children. 2. The specific blessings of. Priesthood in which a woman may share. PRIESTHOOD AN ETERNAL BLESSING TO ALL President Brigham Young had this to say about the Priesthood of the Son of God:.. Lt is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions—their days, weeks, months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled up as a scroll, as it were, and go into a higher state of existence (Discourses of Brigham Young. Page 130). The power of all truth dwells in the bosom of our Father and God, which he dispenses to his children as LESSON DEPARTMENT he will, by the means of his eternal Priesthood. He is enthroned in the light, glory and power of truth.... The Gospel and the Priesthood are _the means he employs to save and exalt his obedient children to the possession with him of the same glory and power to be crowned with crowns of glory, immortality and_ eternal lives (Ibid., page 5). It is impossible for us to comprehend the full significance of the foregoing quotations. It is clearly evident, however, that all who live upon the earth, female as well as male, are beneficiaries of the blessings of the Priesthood. Men have no greater claim than women upon the blessings that issue from the Priesthood and accompany its possession. Woman does not hold the Priesthood, but she is a partaker of the blessings of the Priesthood. That is, the man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood (WIDTSOE,. JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 83). It is evident that a woman is blessed by this great, eternal power because she is a daughter of God. The following scripture, moreover, among others, indicates that the blessings do not apply to this world only. She always has been a recipient of these blessings and, if obedient to the gospel teaching, will be blessed through the power of the Priesthood throughout eternity. "Now this same _ Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 6:7). SPECIFIC BLESSINGS IN MORTALITY What are the specific blessings of Priesthood which may come to 789 bring into blessings? Il 5 her Special] blessingg 6 ersonal dowment 7. Elestia] Marriage 8. Portunity to Perform Vicarlous te ple Work fo the dead 9. Se apart Tiesthood From the above listed blessings We see th fro fancy to th end o €arth-life d into eternity, a Latter-day aint 8irl-chilg is g Tecipient umerous a Specific blessings through the Priesthoog of God. S an infant She aY receive a father' lessing and a name 5 Which she will b ©wn amon er ASSOCiates his Ordinance ls Performed Vv authority of the Priesthood. Aptism and Confirmation With the bestowa] of the Hol] Ghost admit her into the Chy These blessin S are Specia] blessings, received only through the delegate Power of the Priesthood, As her father and brothers who Priesthood, She, too, Calling jn the Church, he °Pportunity of entering the House of the Lord in receiying h own Owments and he °PPortunity f the Sacred ceremony of Celestia] alriage are two o Sveatest of God's blessings to he y the side of the Companion her Choice the atter-dg Int Woman May €xperience the ulminatin Nesthood ordinance Nn this life e efficacy Of these Tdinances ein dependent upon faithfy] ness Or those yw, ands have Not as yet embraced the 80spel truth, there are stil] blessings derived from Priesthood Which are available to th such as aptism, ¢ 9 firmation, the Patriarchal] a Other Special essing th erhaps €en co Missioned to Tiesthoo or the benefit and essing of embers of the Ward HONORED AND BLESSED Women have been greatly blessed through the role given to them by the Creator. To Mary, a "daughter of Eve," he entrusted the mothering of his Only Begotten Son. Women who joyously accept the role of motherhood and who fill it with competence and righteous insight realize great satisfactions in this life and eternal joy in the life hereafter. Women who through no fault of their own cannot exercise the gift of motherhood, directly, may do _ so vicariously. Motherhood may be exercised as universally and vicariously as Priesthood. Countless neglected children are in need of motherly LESSON DEPARTMENT care (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 85). Is there an earthly experience for a woman more soul satisfying than that of rearing to righteous adulthood a spirit child of God? FOR DISCUSSION Questions which arise during the development of this lesson. FOR HOME DOING (Children in the home) Consider the many blessings available to family members. Check to see if all the ordinances with attendant blessings are being enjoyed by family members at present. If not, endeavor to bring about this realization. (Adults only) Check your own attitude and activities in regard to blessings available through the Priesthood. Symphonies Grace B. Wilson Above conflicting noises of the earth High stars still sing together, And proclaim creation's majesty From dark till dawning. Whether The strange, confused, unlistening ear of man Can ever catch the singing, Still, eons old, across the eternal skies Heaven's symphonies are ringing. Autumn Peace Clella Holland ss you feel the calm and infinite peace that envelops your soul when you go through a painted canyon in the fall? Your eyes are completely enraptured with the delicate and fragile colors that present themselves before your eyes. Brown, crimson, gold, and green are tucked in among the hills in such a way that it is almost unbelievable. A small grove of quivering aspen, beyond the quiet and restful green of the hardy fir trees, then the shimmering splashes of crimson and gold burst forth in brilliant array. Fall, some say, is the most beautiful time of the year. I know that one comes away from such splendor with peace in the heart. 791 her regrets which were despairing, and distracted dreams. She thought of the silent antechambers hung with Oriental tapestry, lit by tall bronze candelabra, and of the two great footmen in knee breeches who sleep in the big armchairs, made drowsy by the heavy warmth of the hot-air stove. She thought of the long salons fitted up with ancient silk, of the delicate furniture carrying priceless curiosities, and of the coquettish perfumed boudoirs made for talks at five o'clock with intimate friends, with men famous and sought after, whom all women envy and whose attention they all desire (text, page 113). Although she envies those with a gay social life, she complains when her husband arranges tickets to a government ball, because, as she puts it, she has nothing decent to wear. Instead of being delighted, as her husband hoped, she threw the invitation on the table with disdain, murmuring: "What do you want me to do with that?" "But, my dear, I thought you would be glad. You never go out and this is such a fine opportunity. I had awful trouble to get it. Everyone wants to go; it is very select, and they are not giving many invitations to clerks. The whole official world will be there." She looked at him with an irritated glance, and said, impatiently: "And what do you want me to put on my back?" He had not thought of that; he stammered: "Why, the dress you go to the theater in. It looks very well, to me." He stopped, distracted, seeing his wife was crying. Two great tears descended slowly from the corners of her eyes toward the corners of her mouth. He stuttered: "What's the matter? What's the matter?" But, by violent effort, she had conquered her grief, and she replied, with a calm voice, while she wiped her wet cheeks: LESSON DEPARTMENT "Nothing. Only I have no dress and therefore I can't go to this ball. Give your card to some colleague whose wife is better equipped than I" (text, page 114). Even the purchase of a new dress doesn't satisfy her, because she has no jewelry. Her husband's suggestion that she wear flowers merely annoys her. Obviously, her concern is not for genuine beauty but for a display of wealth. So she borrows a flashy diamond necklace from a rich acquaintance, Mme. Forestier. And at the ball she spends a night of tinkling ecstasy until the affair ends and she must return to her drab apartment— and the terrible discovery that she has lost the borrowed necklace. A full understanding of the story depends, as discussed more fully in the text, on the reader's seeing that it does not have a surprise ending, for we are prepared all through the story for the disclosure at the end that the lost necklace was merely a cheap imitation. For one thing, Mme. Forestier allows Mme. Loisel to borrow the necklace with hardly a thought, and doesn't even open the jewel case when it is returned, although she has been told that the clasp was broken and repaired. A woman such as Mme. Forestier would be more concerned if the jewels were real and their clasp broken. For another thing, when Mme. Loisel tries to find a duplicate of the lost necklace, the jeweler whose name is in the jewel case says that he sold Mme. Forestier only the case, not the necklace—which is surely a suspicious hint that the jewels are not real. And finally, as the 793 OCTOBER 1965 reader thinks through the story, he realizes that Mme. Loisel is the very kind of woman who would choose the false over the true, the cheap and imitative over the valuable and genuine. For she is herself a cheap imitation of what a genuine woman should be. So far as this month's lesson is concerned, the most important question to ask about the story is: How much does Mme. Loisel grow through the experience? Does she mature to an understanding of true values? Does she develop from Shallowness to depth of character? Unfortunately, she does not. Experience can be a great character-builder, but for Mme. Loisel it is not. She hates the hard work she must do and becomes an embittered, Coarse, unkempt woman, unhealthily dreaming of the life that might have been. There is dignity in hard work, and there is nobility in simple living. But Mme. Loisel finds neither. She finds only bitterness and resentment and selfpity, blaming Mme. Forestier for all that has happened. And so the story ends, with Mme. Loisel essentially as she was at the beginning—years older, but otherwise unchanged. She is still cheap and shallow, just like the jewels she wore with such vanity. A strong and significant contrast can be seen between the shallowness of character and the false values of Mme. Loisel and the depth of character and genuine values of Mr. Gessler, the old German bootmaker in Galsworthy's story "Quality," on pp. 124-131 of the text, immediately following "The Necklace." Indeed, a comparative study of "Quality" and "The Necklace" 794 would make an excellent lesson for any teacher who prefers to review "Quality" rather than "The Bear." "THE BEAR" For the purposes of this lesson, a perhaps even more meaningful contrast can be seen between the lack of character growth in "The Necklace" and the profound character growth in "The Bear." In fact, the primary purpose of "The Bear" is to dramatize the maturation of a boy from boyhood to manhood, not just a physical growth but, more important, a character growth. As the story begins the boy is just a boy, limited in knowledge and even more limited in: understanding of life's values. Then come several years of rich experience in the wilderness as the boy is taught by his father and old Sam Fathers, the wisest wilderness man of them all, and by the wilderness itself. Most of the space of. The story is given to a dramatization of these vivid incidents, as discussed fully in the text on pp. 192-196. But the central meaning of the story is saved for its end, after the action is over. If the story had stopped with the close of the action described in it, we would have a good story; but it becomes a truly great story only through the conversation between the boy and his father at the very end. The father reminds the boy that he didn't shoot the bear when he twice had a chance even though shooting it had for years been the great dream and goal of the boy's life. "Why?" asks the father. The boy doesn't quite know why, at least not yet—but the Teader does If the boy had What the tory j about h Shot the ar he w, Id have boy had ard Ords "cou,. Killed the most agnificent thing age," "fear," "pride." "'h lity," In his life. The be become etc.; but the Meaningless to him a Symbol of the ma Jesty of to him until through experience € unta idernesg It repre. € came ¢, W th us, Sented al] S beautify] and with the wilde ness as hig Schoo], POWerful a d snificently free, and th ar and Sam Fathers as () destroy It would to estroy his teachers h Y through € dream of his lif Treover, experience, nd thro gh editat e didn't ed to kil] it. He had Ing o his e Perj » Changes Proved h urage to Meet it on from im aturit the Wisdom equal term » 4Nd he now even had of his Maturit Mplication the Strength and contro] Over fear Faulkner seems to € Saying, to meet it with 4 gun in his hands there jg NO Way to Mature except and not Shoot through the grow XPerienc €r quotin lines from An thro he gr ho exeats' beautify] "O Na Gre. Perience lea that humility is referring t Closing lines of Whereas urage say and en € poem, "Try h doesn't change, Nobles jt Tuth is hing. [¢ Covers al] Me ise] the Pporhings Which Ouch th eart— tunity to §TOW thro £h the ChalOnor and Tide and pity and Juslenge f Tience, but She let Ice and Ourage and love." "D €xXperience r €r instead of YOu see nowy» Sks ¢ father. Enlarge her Y> On the "Ves sir," answers th OY—and Other ha » Tode the crest of each € story end €xperience @voring al] the nd abstract nouns, contrasted teachable and the woman was With concrete nouns, have no rigidly Committed to her Shallow Physica] existence, UC concrete Values, [ N opennouns gs as "Chair? "cow" hearted, °pen-minde Seeker and or "girl" > "Pencil? Terally exist the Woman a Tationalizey a JustiN the rea] he sens We can fier, an €XCuse-ma comSee and touch them. But abstract Plainer, an escapey The differ. Nouns exist only as Concepts in ence was not so Much one of age the Mind. They are Mere Words, ag One of attitude. We can gTow Mere puffs of air. They Cannot be through the challenge Of exnerj. Sensed——indeed they have No ence or Wwe can Stultify through Meaning__ ntil, like the artistj the routi e Perience—a]] eauty the urn Keats' €Pending on our attitude Poem, they are Xperienced en "The Bear," Ich jg Faulk OCTOBER 1965 short story, achieves its place as one of the greatest stories of the English language partly because of its magnificent prose style. Note such sentences as the two following from early in the story, describing the bear: It looked and towered in his dreams before he even saw the unaxed woods where it left its crooked print, shaggy, huge, red-eyed, not malevolent but just big—too big for the dogs which tried to bay it, for the horses which tried to ride it down, for the men and the bullets they fired into it, too big for the very country which was its constricting scope. He seemed to see it entire with a child's complete divination before he ever laid eyes on either—the doomed wilderness whose edges were being constantly and punily gnawed at by men with axes and plows who feared it because it was wilderness, men myriad and nameless even to one another in the land where the old bear had earned a name, through which ran not even a mortal animal but an anachronism, indomitable and invincible, out of an old dead time, a phantom, epitome and apotheosis of the old wild life at which the puny humans swarmed and hacked in a fury of abhorrence and fear, like pygmies about the ankles of a drowsing elephant: the old bear solitary, indomitable and_ alone, widowered, childless, and absolved of mortality—old Priam reft of his old wife and having outlived all his sons (text, page 193; copyright by William Faulkner; reprinted by permission from Random House, Inc.) This is symphonic prose in its most brilliant luxury. But the greatness of the story goes far beyond its prose style. It has a greatness in meaning fully matching its triumph in language. THOUGHTS AND QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What are the fundamental differences between the boy in "The Bear" and Mme. Loisel that make him grow through experience but cause her to remain essentially unchanged? 2. A different woman in Mme. Lojisel's situation might have become strong and admirable in character through Mme. Loisel's experience. Discuss, pointing out the qualities of personality and attitude that would make character growth probable. 3. Invite class members to cite experiences in their own lives that, although difficult at the time, helped to build character as they are looked back upon in later years. 4. To what extent is it true that abstract concepts such as freedom, love, honor, and beauty become meaningful only when experience makes them meaningful? 5. To what extent can we grow in our understanding and in character-strength through the experiences of others—including those in literature—as well as through our own experiences? Carpentry Kathryn Kay The thunder hammers On the clouds Till lightning sparks fly around And ten billion nails of rain Are driven in the ground. 796 A Gift Elva T. Cowley Should you come to the end of a dreary day And check on the things you've done And find them good, or poor, as you say, Or unfinished, the things you've begun. Just know that tomorrow the sun will shine, The rain clouds will float away, And he whose power is all supreme Will give you another day. The Mystic Glacier Bertha A. Kleinman A sapphire facet cleaves the lofty crest Of yonder peak where only eagles fly, A mystic glacier timeless in its quest To mirror back the azure of the sky. Inured in awesome chasms far below, It lifts its crystal chalice to the rain, Thence dripping molten rills across the snow To lave the thirsted furrows of the plain. HAWAIIAN TOUR OCTOBER 16, 1965 15 DAYS ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES Nov. 11 Will be time for those who wish to go to temple Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Hurry, Hurry, Hurry Janet W. Breeze AIN some special reading time by always carrying a book with you to the dentist, doctor, beauty shop, or wherever you expect to wait. Many worthwhile books are now available in paper-back editions which can easily be carried in your purse. Why buy one pair of shoelaces at a time when it costs so little to buy more? Nail an old bucket to the wall of your garage or storage room and save time looking for all of those little garden items such as nozzles, clippers, etc. 797 TWO GREAT TOURS! With W. Cleon Skousen as Your Guide 1. Book of Mormon Lands Tour peparts Sait Lake City January 14, 1966 e 16 exciting days! © Mexico City, Ancient Aztec Ruins, Guatemala, Mayan Villages, and many thrilling sights! 2. South America Tour beparts Mexico City January 29, 1966 © 26 sun-splashed days in Southern Hemisphere Summer! © Rio de Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Montevideo, Buenos Aires, Santiago, Lima and other fabulous places! E See ancient and modern South America in one breath-taking sweep! MURDOCK TRAVEL INC., 14 South Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone: 328-3161 Gentlemen: please send me full particulars on the following tours: [J (1) Book of Mormon Lands with W. Cleon Skousen LJ (2) South America with W. Cleon Skousen MURDOCK ————_———_— BEAUTIFUL HAWAIIAN TOURS HANDY October, November, December 1965 DUR ABLE — A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The ROSE PARADE TOUR Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions December 1965 into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 MEXICO Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Please include postage according to table listed = below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2..... Re Zone (6 ae... 8A: Zone 3.......... -60 Zone 7..........1. Margaret Lund Tours | #20 8 Beaie Zone 5......... 80 3021 South 23d East P. O. Box 2065 a f - Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 PESERET FREwS PRESS 485-2444 — 262-2337 798 T | > 4 A V E L February 1966 IY Sone a-neecccnssaseeen ne cececetsseeceenneensneaallStote eeeTip... Advance payment must accompany all orders. At last—a new kind smoking are harmful. Ers are excluded. Sine nation, no waiting per Starting the first day ife. They're now one of Am ealth problems __ &@ prime caus. Cause we io ~=(cnot accept 'mokers, who Cause hi aused by use of li igh rates /Xcept Pregnancy, any a i ents all accidents and ct of war or Or sickness, h quor or Narcotics, Ise vou're fully Protected—at amazin 3. Other ben within 90 da 4S described in policy) ental death. Oy $2000 'ot, or sight of one ey oth eves, both hands, or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your Policy. We cannot. Fill out application below and mail right sicknesses, military service, Ospitalization IMPORTANT:; pr m with application, LOOK ar THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pay Montini Pay Yearly Tassel 53% | $38 sove0' oe, $5 | $59 | Each o | 70-100 ways $7 = $7 9 Each chitd is ed under pays $280 $2 ~ I RS. 3484 J! | 1! | | ] ] }! I | j | |!! | I | | t! | 1 1 | J 1 | Y low rates be. On effective date of your Policy. Don't de. Ou can drinkers and lay Every day almost 50,000 People enter You rish nothing Ospitals. So get your Protection now. APPLICATION To BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, UBERTYViLtE, (LUNOIS Name (PLEASE PRINT) = Street or ro ————__ Cty SS State Zip _ Ae Date of Birth Month Day Year UT —<—$—____ Hevgnt Ween Benelicrary a Relationship -_ t also 'apply for Coverage for the members of my family sted below AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY BIRTH OaTE i jh Ye either t nor any person listed above WSes tobacco or aiconolhic beverages, and | hereby apply for » bolicy based on the UNderstanging that the DOhCY does nat Cover Conditions Originating prior to its effective Gate. And that the OOlicy ls issued Solely and entisely in reliance upon the written answers to the above questions Go es Signea X — - Mai! Thes application with AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc. SS ae claims. Only a general rate adjustment up | ie new nm Plan AMERICAN Apa Dremiomte Actually, no other js like o SAVE TWo MONTHS PREMIUM BY PaYinG YEARLY! Away. Upon @pproval, your Policy will be Promptly maj ed. Overage begins at noon aie SNA Mal TOMY MPORE Urs 100 are 8Ox 131, Leeetyviie. UNOIS SUS Christof Latter-day ge Operations! I. Green! - ee ™ SS ee ASS Deserey B oO DESERET Book COMPANy i One: 4 Kast South Temple, Sale Lake City Utah ° Mu AN e "4 EAST so. TEMPLE anp AT COTTONWoop MALL Gentlemen Enclosed Dlease find Check Money Ss order ave an account Dlease Charge e Amount § (Please include sales tax): for (number COpies) of MEET THE MORMONs.: te.. Lip.. H please add 3) Sales tax Py Sales tax When ordering through € alifornig Store. SALT LAKE city. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah i: eae It won't fit him for fifteen years... But now is the time to assure him a two - year opportunity for service and growth on an LDS mission. How? With a Beneficial Life Mission Motivator Plan. Here's how one plan works: It's a regular program designed to make cash available for a mission! — Premium is paid by Beneficial should Dad not live to complete paying! — Paid up options in case plan can't be continued!... Dept. E865 To make a mission for your child more than a good inten-: icial Li ar wa LIFE tion, let your Beneficial Life agent show you these and many. 5 5. Jephans la other unique features of a Mission Motivator Plan... OR none ES orey write for further information. 47 West South Temp ee Salt Lake City, Utah THE MAGAZINE Volume 52 Number 11 November 1965 Lessons for February kh 4. C: (SomOMy September Magazine came yesterday, and it is full of lovely and inspiring features. | appreciated reading "A Prophet in These Latter Days'"' (Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay), and also the editorial ''Belonging," by Counselor Marianne C. Sharp. Annie L. Holyoak Burley, Idaho | was just reading the June magazine and came across the article on Sister McKay.! Enjoyed it very much. | find the Magazine to be most helpful to me in my work here. The sisters in our branches here do not have a great deal of contact with "The World-Wide Sisterhood." Showing the sisters the articles on womanhood, the family, and food really enthuses them. We are really thankful for a Magazine that helps so much with members and investigators. Elder Stephen M. Winn Argentine Mission | was so happy to see the article ''Let's Speak Correctly"' in the August issue of the Magazine (by Myrtle E. Henderson). There is another word | wish had been included and that is patriarchal. | have heard many supposedly well-educated people mispronounce all, or most vall, of the words mentioned in the article. | think this type of information is wonderful to have in the Magazine. We need to speak correctly. Helen Rentz Drain, Oregon The Magazine was a gift from Sister Eloise Ward in Salt Lake City, Utah, who was a good missionary in Hong Kong the last two years. 1 thank her very much for letting me read such a good Magazine. | enjoyed it very much and am longing for it every month. Mrs. Lily N. Chong Hong Kong Southern Far East Mission 802 ah oar The cover of the September Magazine is very beautiful, and the stories and articles all inspirational. | am waiting for all the issues before starting to read "Ring-Around Her Heart," by Shirley Thulin—too impatient to wait a whole month to see what happens. | have done this with the last few serials and enjoy them so much. Relief Society and the Magazine are two of my special loves. May God continue to guide you in serving the women of the Church. Helen B. Leslie Provo, Utah As a novice literature class leader, | want to express my gratitude for the inspired lessons which constitute our literature course at this time. I feel that they are timely, essential, broadening, refining, and truly a privilege to conduct. Relief Society is the leavening in my life, and | truly have used it and the Magazine as testimony builders. Myrna Tanner Gibson Mesa, Arizona | wish to convey my deep gratitude for our lovely Magazine. | am a missionary in the Spanish-American Mission, and feel it hard to express the Magazine's value as a tool in proselyting. The dear Spanish-speaking sisters love to listen as we translate the stories into their native tongue, and they progress spiritually, as well as materially, from the lessons and suggestions. It is a happy day in our lives when the Magazine comes. Elaine Mott Laredo, Texas | have taken the Magazine for fifty years and have received wonderful inspiration from the lessons, stories, and poems. They have helped in guiding my children. Emmaline Winsor McBride Pima, Arizona |_ | | | Relief Society \\.... —— _ —— ie Volume 52 November 1965 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 804 The Blessings of Experience Belle S. Spafford 808 Love, the Measuring Rod Marianne C. Sharp 810 Behold, I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door Louise W. Madsen 813 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 819 Frost in the Valley Sara O. Moss 829 "Star Light, Star Bright" Christie Lund Coles 842 Ring Around Her Heart— Chapter 7 Shirley Thulin General Features 802 From Near and Far 825 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 826 Editorial: Under the Priesthood Marianne C. Sharp 828 Notes to the Field: Booklet "For the Strength of Youth" Available 847 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 880 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 837 Waiting for the Kettle to Boil Maxine T. Grimm 838 Fruit Cakes for Christmas Mabel Harmer 840 Pudding Cakes Elaine J. Wilson 841 Knitting Needles and Crochet Hooks Bring Happiness to Many Lessons for February 854 Theology—Great Truths; the School of the Prophets Roy W. Doxey 860 Visiting Teacher Message—"'Abide Ye in the Liberty..." Christine H. Robinson 861 Work Meeting—Attitudes Make the Difference Hazel S. Cannon (for January) 864 Work Meeting—The "Picking-Up" Technique Winnifred C. Jardine 866 Social Science—Our Priesthood Heritage Alberta H. Christensen 872 Literature—The Place of Suffering in Life, Part I Robert K. Thomas Poetry 801 I Will Remember Autumn Life, by Catherine B. Bowles, 812; Only the Voice, Margery S. Stewart, 812; Unexpected Phrase, by Christine Lund Coles, 818; One More Story, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 828; Autumn Leaf, by Kathryn Kay, 835; Pledge, by Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 835; Prayer After Hospitality, by Lael W. Hill, 836; Angel Child, by Ethel Jacobson, 846; Just Desserts, by Ruth G. Rothe, 859; Leave Taking, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 863; Truth Is Many-Faceted, by Vilate R. McAllister, 875; Diminuendo, by Linda Clarke, 875; November, by Celestia J. Taylor, 876. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. —~ sa manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 803 The [Address Delivereg at the G: s Relj S September 29, 1965] of Experience @ Church i: ) Out of the midst of his tribulation he called Upon God in Passionate earnestness: Servants, and Thy ear be Penetrated With their cries... OQ Lord... Stretch forth Thy hand |. - let Thine heart be softened, and Thy bowels moved ith compassion towards us. And God answered the cries of the Prophet and said: - x » ¥ 804 B [ es SI n g S President Belle §. Spafford General] Conference tions that beset the Path of the of murderers,. And the sentence of death passed upon thee... If fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good (DHC III, page 291 ff). This leads us to ask, "What really is this thing which the Lord called experience, and what are the values to be found therein, not alone for the Prophet but for each of our Father's children?" Experience, I believe, is the actual living through of an event or events; it is personally undergoing enjoyment or suffering which directly affects one's feelings, one's judgment, and one's character. The dictionary says, "Experience is the sum total of the conscious events which compose an_ individual life.' Experience has been referred to as "Life's greatest teacher, one's sure source of knowledge." A gifted writer, Donald Culross Peattie, says that life is an adventure in experience and "as one's head is silvered o'er with age, his variable experiences make him sage." Another writer has said, that a strong and well-constituted man digests his experiences (deeds and misdeeds all included) just as he digests his meats, even when he has some tough morsels to chew and swallow, and from these well-digested morsels comes nourishment by which his character is formed. Latter-day Saints know that earth life is a proving ground for the Father's children; that exTHE BLESSINGS OF EXPERIENCE periences, both pleasant and difficult, come to all; that each will be tested by the experiences of his life, and his character and accomplishments will be measured by the manner in which he meets the testing trials. The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 136:31, tells us, "My people must be tried in all things that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." I recall being authorized several years ago by the First Presidency, as is the usual custom, to interview a sister relative to her call to become a member of the General Board. She was an intelligent and talented woman, devoted to the work of the Church and to the work of Relief Society. Her quick mind readily grasped the importance of the call and what, in general, would be expected of her as a board member and as a _ leader of Latter-day Saint women. She was reluctant to accept the call since, she said, she felt she had not had experiences in life which would make her sufficiently understanding of the problems and needs of the sisters or wise in her counsels to them. She said her life had been practically devoid of trial or hardship, and she feared her lack of kinship of experience with most Relief Society sisters would keep them from drawing lovingly to her. This she could not bear. Then, she said this, which has remained with me through the years, "Insofar as experiences which test and develop one are concerned, my life has been quite impoverished." 805 NOVEMBER 1965 This beautiful woman who, at that moment, felt her life had been impoverished was_ the daughter of one of our most prominent and financially successful Church leaders. She had long enjoyed the prestige as well as the other advantages of belonging to such a family. Her husband, too, held high office in the Church and was professionally and financially successful. She had a beautiful home and a lovely family of bright children. She, herself, was personally attractive, healthy in mind and body, gifted far beyond the average woman. Yet she felt unqualified to accept a wonderful Church calling because of the ease of her life experiences. I suggested that she delay decision for a few days, that she talk the matter over with her husband and her father. The next morning she returned to the office and humbly accepted the call. She said her father had told her not to worry about her lack of hard and testing life experiences. She would not be denied these, nor would any of our Father's children. He had quoted to her the teachings of the Lord to Abraham wherein he said they would make an earth whereon the spirits God had created might dwell, and he would prove them herewith to see if they would do all things whatsoever the Lord their God should command them. She said her father had told her that the way of trial was ordained of God, even for his most favored sons and daughters. It was a means of development and purification, a means whereby man would be proved in earth life. To some persons, trial came early in life; 806 with others, it was withheld until 'later years, but in due time it came to all. Furthermore, her father had indicated to her that acceptance of the call would bring a strength that would sustain her in adversity when it came. In time, life did bring to this sister, in rapid succession, trial, hardship, sorrow, disappointment, even physical suffering. She proved herself capable of rallying the forces which enabled her to meet each experience with patience, faith, and fortitude, devoid of bitterness or a spirit of rebellion. And there emerged from these experiences a woman of rare spiritual strength, a compassionate and _ understanding woman, a woman wise in counsel, an example to the women of the Church of one's power to rise above adversity, a loving and beloved Relief Society leader, a soul refined. Truly, it is not what comes to us by way of experience but how we meet the difficulty that counts. In meeting the adversities of life one's greatest strength is a firm and abiding testimony of the gospel, a knowledge of God's great plan of life and salvation. This knowledge enables one to determine the true values of life and directs him in the pursuit of that which is of eternal worth. Life's denials, hardships, tribulations, small or great, are then viewed in true perspective, and one is lifted above them and sustained in going forward. Testimony comes through effort: a study of the words and will of the Lord as given us by his prophets; it comes' through prayer; it comes through mingling with the saints; through activity within the Church; through obedience to God's commandments. Strength to meet adversity comes through seeking counsel of the Lord as contained in the holy scriptures. Counsel and the comforting power of the Lord are always available through this source. True, the scriptures speak to us as a collective body—his Church, but they speak also to us as individuals, if we will but let them. True, we must be on familiar terms with them, having full faith, applying the divine wisdom to our individual problems and circumstances. To one in sorrow do they not say, "Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be comforted''? To one engulfed with fear over the perplexities of the times they say, "Fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail" (D&C 6:34). To one who must make a troublesome and far-reaching decision is not this wise counsel given: "You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right" (D&C 9:8). Wise, indeed, is the woman who fortifies herself to meet the vicissitudes of life through a knowledge of the scriptures. Inspired guidance and_increased strength are available to us through prayer. The Lord mercifully invites us to lay our burdens at his feet. In Alma (37: 37) we are admonished, "Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, THE BLESSINGS OF EXPERIENCE and he will direct thee for good." These are not idle words spoken by man. They are the words of the Lord to his beloved children —to you and to me. As we review our lives and those of others about us, we become aware that, generally speaking, there is a fair balance between the pleasant and difficult experiences of life; that with breadth of experience lives are enriched. We know that the more difficult experiences make us more understanding of others and more compassionate towards them. We recognize that through self-mastery in rising above the trials of life, character is developed and refined. We know that in none of the tribulations of life do we stand alone. Always the Lord is near to comfort, guide, and sustain us, to raise-up friends unto us. We know that we must be tested if earth life is to fulfill its purpose. We see the truth and the wisdom of the words of the Lord when he tenderly said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, '"... Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." Latter-day Saint mothers, obedient to God's commands, may ever find comfort in this blessed promise of the Lord, whether their path be through green pastures or over rocky roads: And now, verily I say unto you, and what I say unto one I say unto all, be of good cheer, little children; for I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you (D&C 61:36). May this be our blessing is my earnest prayer. 807 Love, the Measuring Rod Counselor Marianne C. Sharp ¥ drneeanenmcisan —* [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ In recent months, an editorial of Elder Mark E. Petersen's which I read in the Church News has kept coming back into my memory, and from its study I feel that I have just begun to realize a deeper, more significant meaning to the first and second great commandments. The editorial said: The final judgment is not going to be a weighing of the good against the bad on a pair of scales to see which way we may slide—into heaven or hell. The Judgment Day is a time when we will be measured to see if we have become Christ-like in our souls. Those who are like Christ will go with him, but no others. The more I pondered these words, the better became my understanding of why love is the key to the first and second commandments of the Lord to his earthly children. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets (Matt. 22:37-40). Another scripture which had perplexed me also came to mind from Paul's eloquent declaration: Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away.... And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity" (1 Cor. 13:8, 13). The revealing words of Mormon also came to mind: "But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him" (Moroni 7:47). In this measuring of our souls at the judgment day, evidently love will be the measuring rod. I tried to face my actions, as you face yours. What was I doing to show my love of God, my love of neighbor? But wait! Another thought struck me—not just my actions—but my feelings, my desires, my thoughts—how much love was in them? I recalled the half-jesting words of a sister, "I'm not afraid of being judged by my actions, I can make myself do good acts, but I'm afraid of being judged by my thoughts." In line with Brother Petersen's editorial, this statement took on significant meaning. Every act of the Savior was prompted by love for us. His spirit, his being harbored no dishonesty, envy, hatred, jealousy, malice, or selfishness. He did what he had seen his Father do "... For he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust" (Matt. 5:45). "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). What does this mean in our daily lives as Latter-day Saint women, as wives, as mothers? A wife goes into the kitchen to prepare a meal for her family. She serves an appetizing dinner to them in a calm manner. Inwardly she may be a seething mass of resentment. Her husband did not tell her he was bringing a guest to dinner. The children did not assist her. She still had much to accomplish that evening. Her feelings were hurt from the lack of consideration shown her. In placing up the measuring rod of love, does it matter what her family may or may not have done? The question for her is—was her spirit Christ-like? We read of the words of the Savior to the Pharisees wherein he called them whited sepulchres LOVE, THE MEASURING ROD which appeared beautiful outwardly but within were unclean. That description, to a degree, may be closer than 2,000 years ago. Love is the hardest taskmaster. We all suffer mentally, physically, and spiritually. We all experience disappointment, heartache, disillusionment, regrets, sorrows. We must learn to submit to all in a Christ-like spirit—''... Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do" (Luke 23:34); ".. Not as I will, but as thou wilt" (Matt. 26:39). A Christ-like spirit seems unattainable, but the closer we come to the statement 'God is love," the nearer its attainment. As we increase in love the better we realize ''Men are that they might have joy." Relief Society is a great tool of the Lord to help his daughters attain perfection. As it increases testimonies, it enlarges the soul; as it serves others, it floods the soul with love. The Prophet Joseph declared: "Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls"—-to save our own souls while we learn to love our sisters and help to save theirs. I would that every Latter-day Saint woman loved Relief Society. Believe me, it does assist us to acquire a more Christ-like spirit. As we learn and serve in Relief Society, we become increasingly humble. We realize more keenly our faults, but the measuring rod of love is stretched up beside each one of us, and the goal of eternal life is ever in front of us. May we let Relief Society nurture charity in each of us. May we be found to possess charity at the last day that it may be well with us, I pray. Behold, | Have Set Before Thee an Open Door Counselor Louise W. Madsen {Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ That man may _ understand his mission, Christ has referred to himself thus: "I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved" (John 10:7). The scriptures record many uses by the Savior of a "doorway," as a symbol of entering into the kingdom of God. "Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come unto him, and will sup with him, and he with me" (Rev. 3: 20). A famous painting illustrating this biblical quotation shows Christ standing at a door which has no knob, signifying that the door can only be opened from within; that he who desires to welcome the Savior into his home must open his heart and soul and invite the Savior to enter. The symbolism is further seen in another familiar quotation, "Knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Luke 11:9). All of these statements place the responsibility upon individuals themselves to take the action necessary to enter the doorway prepared for them. As God inspired his Prophet to "turn the key" in behalf of women, it was as though he said to his daughters, '"'Behold, I have set before thee an open door" (Rev. 3:8), and those who enter in will find "a great door and effectual is opened unto me" (I Cor. 16:9). Relief Society is the doorway to many wonderful things, all BEHOLD, | HAVE SET BEFORE THEE AN OPEN DOOR calculated to make life more beautiful, satisfying, effective, and happy. As one enters the mansion that is Relief Society, other inner doors may _ be opened, each one showing new vistas, inviting further exploraation, opening to greater understanding, and, as the Lord has said, revealing the great door opening unto him. Relief Society is a doorway to spiritual growth. Spiritual growth comes from a combination of study of the scriptures and the writings of those who know and understand the word of God, and of being attuned to the Spirit which reveals, prompts, and fills the soul and mind with understanding. Relief Society provides a way to greater and deeper conversion and to_ unwavering faith and testimony. The Society's "principles are to practice holiness." The all-encompassing reason for its existence is to save souls. Relief Society is a doorway to happier living. Happiness has no selfish implications. It comes to those who make others happy. Its source in a woman's life revolves around her home. Practical training, as given in Relief Society, assures increased dedication to her role as wife and mother. No greater happiness comes to her than to know that she has succeeded in her home, that her support has added to the achievements of her husband, that her loving direction of her children has resulted in worthy sons and daughters. Happiness also comes to a woman in her individual development, in her acquisition of skills and learning, in her use of this life as a time to prepare for eternity.. Relief Society is a doorway to companionship. One of _ the delights of life is the companionship of those whom we love, respect, and admire, those whose aspirations and ideals we may share, those we may teach or by whom we may be taught, those with whom we walk in prayer and worship of our Heavenly Father, those who give inspiration and motivate us to greater effort. How joyous and lasting are friendships made in Relief Society. Relief Society is a doorway to service. The commandments of the Father require service to him and his children as part of that which will gain for us eternal life in the celestial kingdom. Opportunity to give service is provided by Relief Society. The "combined efforts'? Of members of this "charitable society" add to the efficacy as well as the amount of service which can be given. The cherishing, tender care which marked the work of Jesus is emulated by Relief Society. Relief Society is a doorway to knowledge. The Lord has admonished his children to gain knowledge by study and also by faith. He has given them the commandments to teach one another, to gather together to learn of his word. Through his Prophet he has promised his daughters that knowledge and intelligence would flow down upon them, and he has urged them to widen their field of knowledge. Relief Society makes it possible for the sisters to heed these admonitions, to follow this NOVEMBER 1965 counsel, and to participate in learning activities which will add to their store of knowledge. Relief Society is a doorway to more perfect womanhood. The divine plan for women is unfolded in its tenets. Its members are taught to give greater response to the sacred obligations of motherhood. Its great women provide patterns of virtues to be emulated, virtues of modesty and beautiful womanliness. Relief Society may be a doorway to the accomplishment of the Father's purposes for his daughters. Relief Society is a wide-open doorway. All who enter in will be blessed and uplifted. Sisterhood will have greater meaning. Service given under the direction of the Society will provide an outlet for charitable feelings. Knowledge will be shared and learning encouraged. Personal growth will be sure in a pleasing variety of ways. Spirituality will be magnified. Love will encircle those who enter Relief Society's doorway. Sisters, remember always that the Lord has said: "Behold, I have set before thee an open door." Enter the door in faith and complete confidence and you will find that "a great door and effectual is opened." Life Catherine B. Bowles Winds of life blow fiercely Along the stormy way; Clouds come by the dozen To darken every day. Dangers will soon diminish And clouds become more bright, Burdens will grow smaller Until they fade from sight. God is watching over us With guidance from above, And faith will bring the sunshine With courage, strength, and love. Only the Voice Margery S. Stewart.. Once in a November field at home, | heard a lark singing, But when | searched, there was Only the voice there.... Let me be summoned, Lest only my longing remain To startle a hunter Late coming from the plain. 812 President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ A report of the status of Relief Society, together with new Board, are scheduled each year for the Officers Meeting of the General Relief Society Conference. I am pleased to report that, generally speaking, the Relief Societies of the Church are in 800d condition. The Society is growing in size. The Society is proving to be an effective instrument for the development of woman leadership within the Church. During the past two years special emPhasis has been Placed upon this with encouraging results. There are 183,000 women holding leadership positions in Relief Society and, on the whole, the quality of their work is very enthusiastic over of the young in the college campus Relief Societies. We note with gratitude the continued activity of those who have left the camSpecial government assignments in foreign countries. These young women are giving outstanding leadership to Relief Society in many parts of the world. The carefy] adherence to General Board recommendations and programs is standardizing the work of Relief Societies throughout the Church, giving 813 NOVEMBER 1965 strength to local Societies and to the organization as a whole. It is noticeable that, in the few instances in which there are deviations from General Board regulation or where there have been modifications or substitutions of General Board programs, the records of these Societies do not compare favorably with those of the other stakes. We, therefore, commend close adherence to General Board regulations and programs, cautioning leaders against deviating therefrom. We are pleased to advise you that the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions has been revised and brought up to date. The draft is in the hands of the Coordinating Committee. When it is approved and ready for use, you will be notified. Until such time, continue to use the present Handbook as you have been doing. COORDINATED PROGRAM Sisters, we acknowledge your cooperation in support of the coordinated program of _ the Church. Your acceptance of changes in programs and procedures has been appreciated. We particularly commend you for your encouragement and helpfulness in the home-centered gospel teaching program. You have caught the spirit of the Family Home Evening and _ transferred it to ward leaders whom you are guiding and assisting in meeting their many responsibilities to the mothers in promoting this vital and inspired program. May the successes which you see all about you encourage sustained enthusiasm and effort. 814 MEMBERSHIP There were 12,701 new members enrolled during 1964, making a total of 274,703. While this may seem to be a substantial increase when the figure is viewed alone, when compared with the increases for the preceding years it seems to bear analysis. For example, in 1963 the membership increase was approximately 14,000. In 1962 it was approximately 17,000. We urge you whose membership increase last year was less than in previous years carefully to consider the reasons. Strengthen your efforts, where possible. Review the recommendations given at the last General Conference as well as those given at the Relief Society sessions of the 1965 stake quarterly conferences. RELIEF SOCIETY RECORDS It is anticipated that a change will be made in the Relief Society records in 1967 to bring them into line with the Coordinating Committee recommendations. Therefore, identical record books and annual reports now in use will continue to be used in 1966 and until September 1967. Careful consideration should be given to the extra sheets needed for the record book fiilers as explained in the "Bulletin to Stake Relief Society SecretaryTreasurers," issued July 16. Instructions have _ recently been received from the Church Historian's Office that, effective October 1965, the procedure for submitting Auxiliary records to the Church Historian's Office for permanent filing has been changed and we are now directed that all Relief Society records for the year 1964 should be submitted to the respective stake and ward clerks for transmittal to the Church Historian's Office during the month of October 1965. ATTENDANCE Attendance figures have been more than maintained. There was an average of 103,515 women in attendance at the regular weekly meetings—an _ increase of approximately 3,000. EDUCATION We remind you of the reversal of the social science and literature meetings, beginning this October. Social science will be presented at the third weekly meeting of the month and literature at the fourth weekly meeting. Courses of study for the 1965-66 education season are as follows: Visiting Teacher Message: The eight visiting teacher messages are taken from the 88th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. The author, Sister Christine Robinson, points out in the preview that "this section of the Doctrine and Covenants is given as a guide to show all of us today that the way of life is truth and that the truth we possess in the gospel is the only way in which we may find peace, joy, success and exaltation." These messages are particularly appropriate for mothers in the home at this time. Theology: The theology course will be a continuation of the Doctrine and Covenants with REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS a study of Sections 88-92. These sections include the important revelation known as the "Word of Wisdom." Two lessons will be devoted to this subject. It is felt that our study of the Doctrine and Covenants is having far-reaching influence in the lives of the sisters. Women of the Church should be familiar with the revelations of the Lord in this dispensation. We _ encourage class leaders to continue their excellent work in inspiring the members to study the revelations for themselves. In every theology class, copies of the Doctrine and Covenants should be in evidence in the hands of class members. An individual study of the revelations accomspanied by a class discussion of the lesson material so ably prepared by Elder Roy W. Doxey, offer rich opportunity for the women of the Church to learn revealed gospel truths so that they may be applied in their individual lives. Work Meeting: From October through December 1965, and in February 1966, the work meeting discussions prepared by Winnifred Jardine and published under the general heading, 'Molding A Happy Life," which were discontinued in order that the coordinated lessons, 'Teaching the Gospel in the Home," could be used, will be resumed. Commencing January 1966, and continuing on for a twelve-month period, a new series of discussions prepared by Hazel S. Cannon entitled, 'Development Through Homemaking Education," will be used. This course will include practical homemak- 815 NOVEMBER 1965 ing helps, information on wise buying, money management, and similar subjects. Social Science: Starting with the October lesson, the series, "Teaching the Gospel in the Home," becomes the social science course. These lessons, as you. Know, are delightfully written by Sister Alberta H. Christensen, General Board member. They are coordinated with the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons. Literature: The _ literature course will be a continuation of the course, "The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature." Out of the Best Books, a valuable volume dealing with world literature especially prepared for the use of Relief Society by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas of Brigham Young University, is again the text. Reports of the favorable response of the sisters to the analytical study of world literature, as presented in the literature course of last season, and which will be followed again this year, are appreciated. The General Board has _ received numbers of letters from Relief Society officers and literature class leaders appealing for a continuation of the study of literature according to the plan that has been in use during past years. As you know, courses of study are now being planned within a framework established by the Coordinating Committee as approved by the Presiding Authorities of the Church. We assure you that the need for cultural influences through our 816 educational courses has not been lost sight of by this committee. If present plans materialize, we are confident that you _ will see the wisdom of any modification in present courses and that you will be happy with the lessons provided. SPECIAL LESSONS FOR RELIEF SOCIETY To meet the needs of Societies desiring simplified courses of study, including some of the Indian Relief Societies, special lessons have again been provided by the Relief Society General Board. These lessons are a continuation of those prepared last year, and then designated as Indian Lessons, Volume 1. The 1965-66 manual Special Lessons for Relief Society, Volume 2 is available at the General Board office at a cost of $1.75. Indian or Spanish Relief Societies just being organized are advised to begin their studies with Lessons for Indian Relief Societies, Volume 1. WORK MEETING Work meeting continues to be the second-best attended meeting, attesting the continuing interest of the sisters in creative handwork and in learning new and better methods of homemaking. With regard to the character and activities of this meeting, the General Board recommends that a social spirit characterize the work meeting and that an atmosphere of informality and a feeling of friendly cooperation be maintained. Sewing assignments for the Church Welfare Program continue to take precedence over any other educational and home. CoordinIn our making Programs, the display Particular] y appealing er Sisters. Of items to the old Average of hine for each Ward or branch Relief Society, The Genera] Oard Considers that at least One Sewing machine I Working Order jg for each to Own, if it aims Conduct the recommended am. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS gram, During 1964, a total of four and a half million Visits, an j COMPASSIONATE SERVICE The °OMpassionate Services re ect the heart and soy] of elief So ty. In a day When People see to be &rowing in creasingly Self-centereq and to € direct SO much energies toward materj _ IS Impressive and Important that Relief So Church elfare ACtivities con tinue to engage the time and attention Relief Societ women here Wer 109,000 family Visit. Y Reliet Oociety Presidents nder the direction their Tespective ishops during 964 73,580 other Contacts being Made. This as an crease of 33,000 in NOVEMBER 1965 these two areas of service. There were 810,000 hours contributed by women on welfare projects. SINGING MOTHERS Approximately 44,000 sisters are finding personal happiness and development as well as giving service to Relief Society through membership in 3,113 Singing Mothers choruses. The generous contribution. Of these sisters in terms of both time and talent is recognized and appreciated. RELIEF SOCIETY SESSIONS AT QUARTERLY CONFERENCE The many courtesies extended to the members of the General Board as they met with you in Relief Society sessions of the quarterly conferences during the first six months of this year were greatly appreciated.. Your: kindnesses added to» the«-comfort,- convenience, and pleasure of our visits. That Relief Society quarterly We have been advised. Conference sessions for 1966 will be held during the last half of 1966, June through December. CONCLUSION Sisters, you as Relief Society leaders are directing a work in your stakes and missions that has tremendous meaning in the lives of Latter-day Saint women —work that influences their ideals and standards, that has direct bearing on the strength of their testimonies, that affects their day-to-day living and enters into their eternal well-being. Keep your: vision clear. Give balanced leadership to all aspects of the work, for each division: is important in the total program, otherwise, it would not be included. As you consider the work, also be considerate of the women—women who love and need Relief Society, who want to serve it, and who want to serve their Church through this medium May the Lord bless you to this end, I pray. Unexpected Phrase Christie Lund Coles The phrase came to me like a voice, Forgotten, distant; like music played again After long silence; like a rising tide Moving in craggy foam, dripping its rain, Awakening both joy and pain. The words seemed almost entering my flesh And in my blood; became living memories, As | heard the phrase incredibly sweet And was moved to tears by these Few words, "'A grove of trees." 818 a Sara O. M Oss Profound 'Silence Miriam felt the NOVEMBER 1965 wall. Oh, Randy, why did it have to happen, just when we were out of debt and ready to start living?'"' She put her head against the old porch railing. The tears came and sobs shook her slight frame. '""Your new truck, a new paint job inside and out, new drapes. Why? Why?" Sue felt Randy's big hand on her shoulder with its firm pressure. The gesture gave her a spark of courage and she raised her troubled eyes to his. '"We've seen worse times than this," she said, '"'and 1 suppose we can make it through, but what about Kathy? We've promised her this year at college. There's nothing here for her in a small farming community. College is so expensive, but how are we going to find a substitute for a dream like that?" Randy shrugged. '"'Why substitute? We've had a complete crop failure. Surely our daughter can understand that. Suppose she does have to wait a year? She's young. She has her whole life before her. She can surely find something to do." "Oh, Randy! How can you be so coldly practical? She's planned on it. For years." Miriam turned impatiently and walked onto the porch. She removed her wet shoes, and Randy took off his muddy overshoes. Inside, Miriam sat down as she put on some house slippers. "There is one little resource that I can use to get Kathy through the first quarter.'' She looked set and determined. "And what's that?" asked Randy. "You know we have been scraping the barrel the past three months, waiting for the 820 cherries to come on to give us an income." "I know that as well as you do," said Miriam, "but that little insurance policy I've had for years. I can cash that in. It's only a few hundred, but it will pay one quarter's registration and the dorm fee. After that, goodness knows." Randy looked worried and beaten. ''But Miriam, there're books and_ clothes, spending money, and so many fees that come along." Miriam was determined. She had made up her mind. Kathy was on her way to college. "What about Aunt Libby? Maybe she could stay with her. She has a big house and she's all alone." "Oh, Randy! A young girl living with an elderly woman! Compare that with life in a dormitory, where there's fun and _ gaiety every minute. Real joy of college life—that's what I want for Kathy." And Kathy was going to have it. Miriam was now determined. Her graduation took place in three weeks. From then on till September the time could be spent in preparation for going away. Thoughts raced resolutely through her mind. "We'll make a start,' she said to Randy. "I think we can do it." Miriam hurried through her work that day with a new determination, in spite of the anguished morning. She planned as she worked. She had a few things she could turn into cash, she calculated. There was the china teapot that was an heirloom she hadn't wanted to part with, a piece quilt that a woman in town had wanted her to make, and an afghan that she was sure she could sell at The Hobby Shop. If she could make transactions out of these things, without letting Kathy know she was scrimping too much, it would help toward the college fund. She set the table in the dining room for that evening. She had made a noodle dish and a green bean casserole that Randy liked. She brightened each place with a pear salad on crisp lettuce. The table had a light, festive air about it, and Miriam hoped that tensions would be lifted and worries cast aside for the evening. At five-thirty Kathy arrived from school, bursting into the house. She looked _ terrified. "Mom, Dad!" she exclaimed as a greeting. "Have you seen the headlines? I bought a paper." Entire Fruit Crop Destroyed by Heavy Frost "Is it true, Dad? Does it mean our crop here, too, or some other valley?" Miriam watched Randy. She hoped he wouldn't say too much —not just now. There was no use to dampen the girl's spirits unnecessarily. If she knew all the facts, it would only upset her. Finally Randy spoke. "Yes, it's true, Kathy. Everything went last night. There isn't a pound of anything in the whole orchard. I've examined the buds in every section. It's all gone." Kathy sat down by the table. "Oh, I'm sorry, Daddy. What are we going to do?" Randy smiled kindly at his youngest daughter. "Oh, I guess Pll get a job—some kind of a job to get us through. We haven't starved yet." FROST IN THE VALLEY Kathy smiled. "I guess that means no college for me," she said soberly.; "Nonsense," said Miriam. "Of course you're going to college. That's been taken care of for years. Come on, dinner will be getting cold." KartnHy was too preoccupied to eat much. "Daddy, we're not in debt much, are we?" she asked suddenly. Before Randy could answer, Miriam asked hurriedly, '"Whatever made you ask that?" "Because Bessie was pretty upset, too, when she heard about the frost. You know they just bought all that new furniture— even a piano. Bessie said her folks figured on the fruit crop, and they didn't worry because it looked so promising for everybody. They have six children, you know." "How lucky," laughed Miriam. "Still we're happy with our four daughters.' She passed the food, not wanting to talk about the frost, or money, or the months to come in front of Kathy. "Just one more wedding to go," laughed Kathy. "All right, Mother, I won't talk about debts or college or how I'm going to get there. I know it bothers you. I only hope I'm not going to be an added worry for you and Daddy. After all, it will cost an awful lot of money." Randy was about to speak, but Miriam gave him one of her "looks." For now, she wanted him to say nothing. There were plans to make. There was work to do. Positive thinking was what they all needed at this time. Randy was apt to put too much pressure on the opposite side of 821 NOVEMBER 1965 the picture. 'He must not discourage Kathy at this point. The summer wore on and now it was autumn. It had been 2 busy time. Miriam had made things for Kathy. By contriving, remodeling, and sewing the various articles of clothing, Kathy's wardrobe was, on an average, what a young college gitl might wear. Kathy had earned a little money by baby-sitting OT helping the young mothers who neede her youngest daughter. When she looked eagerly It was everything the girl all these new friends. Rich and some are poor, but they're all fun to be with. T think I love them all. We rush to classes, then to a lecture, and alner, candles, These letters spurred Miriam's ambition to make Kathy's college days more memorable. She had worked hard on the piece quilt, and, finally, she sold it. The Shop on consignment. She hoped it would sell, too, send Kathy the money to buy her a formal. She also needed a dress for dates. There was still the heirloom teapot, but Miriam had not been able to make her- 822 self take it to the antique dealer. A letter from Kathy contained h that disturbed Mirday. I believe she likes me, Mom. I helped her hang some curtains, and she 'was really pleased with the result. Did you know she has a bad knee? She has 2 hard time to walk." Miriam and Randy had_ not known much about Aunt Libby. It had been sO long since they had been to the city to see her. Ir was but a week before Thanksgiving. Kathy would be home for the holidays, and Joan and Millie had promised to come from Idaho. Janet, living in Montana, was unable to bring her family of five. "Well, we do have the freezer full of food," said Randy. "We ought to have a joyful Thanksgiving." Miriam smiled lifelessly. "It's after Thanksgiving I'm thinking about," she said. "Randy, what ing to do? The next quarter at the University has to be paid the middle of December. Would be ready to light whenever it was needed. He stood up, irritation on his face and in his voice as he spoke. "Miriam, don't start that again. You know we can't make it, and that should be final. This temporary keeps us going. There are taxes and insurances to meet right away.": Miriam set her chin in that way she had. "Don't get angry," she said, "but I was wondering if you'd mind if I asked Uncle Hugh for a loan. He has so much and I know he wouldn't hesitate. Just to see Kathy through this year." Randy's eyes shot fire. He was straight and tall. "I do mind," he said with anger. "Do you think I want it to go through your family that we're broke—that I'm a failure, and that we have to borrow money for our daughter to go to college?" "Oh, Randy! It's not that way at all. An honest loan and for a good cause." "There will be no loan. Kathy must learn to stand on her own two feet and it's time we did the same. We're just adding trouble to trouble." Miriam was almost afraid of Randy when he talked like that and when he looked as he did. Perhaps she could win her point by the time Kathy had to register again. Surely he would know the importance of getting the loan from Uncle Hugh. After Kathy had been home, and he could see what college life was doing for her, and how much she wanted the social part of it along with her studies—yes, surely Randy would not object to the loan. She furthered the subject. "You know I can get some Christmas work in town to pay back part of it. You don't seem to understand that we have to have this money by the middle of December." Randy now stood in the doorway. Miriam had never seen his FROST IN THE VALLEY features so grimly set. "The money will be ready by the 15th," he said angrily. "You forget about asking your "Uncle Hugh for a loan, and also forget about working in town." Miriam gaped. This was too sudden to grasp. Where, but at a bank would Randy get the money? That would mean debt again, and possibly a new mortgage on the home. She put her hands to her aching head as Randy turned. He looked at her as though to speak. He was big and silent, with a beaten expression on his face. Then he went out of the house with a fast, even step. Miriam knew he was angry. THE week went by. Randy remained aloof and even cold, and communication between them was strained and long periods of silence ensued. Miriam sometimes wanted to cry out. "What have I done?" she wanted to shout at this silent man. "What have I done except try to start a young person on her way to becoming a better child of ours.' But she knew Randy. He wouldn't easily forgive. Kathy arrived home the day before Thanksgiving. She was driven home by a carload of other young people. The students drove on and Kathy came bursting into the house, her face aglow with excitement and joy at being home again. "Mother, Dad!" She embraced them both, and Miriam felt the tears close as she looked at Randy. "It's so wonderful to be home again." They talked. They laughed, and they bantered. But, finally, they all three stood in Kathy's 823 NOVEMBER 1965 little room, where Randy had deposited the suitcases. "How I've missed my little room," said the girl, looking about. "The dorm is nice, but, oh, the quiet, wonderful feeling of a little room like this." Miriam could understand. Her daughter became homesick at times. That was understandable. "Mother, Daddy. I have something to tell you. I'm not going to school next quarter." Miriam sat down on the bed. "You what?" "I'm going back, but I have a full time job on the campus. I'm going to take just one class. And that's not all. I'm going to live with Aunt Libby. She really 'wants me to." Miriam was too bewildered to speak. '"'Are you sure this is what you want?" she finally asked. 'Never was more sure of anything in my life. Aunt Libby will let me have a nice room like this, and I insist on paying for my food. It won't be expensive, Mother, and I can help Aunt Libby a lot. She needs someone around, and she is so happy I'm coming." From somewhere the girl had produced a gift-wrapped box. She handed it to Miriam. "Open it, Mother. It's for you and Daddy. A Thanksgiving present." Miriam opened the box. There was a beautiful lace tablecloth. "T don't understand," said Miriam. _"T didn't buy the formal when you sent me the money. I wore my graduation dress, and I bought this banquet size cloth for you. Through the grapevine I heard about your selling the piece quilt. From now on, I'm on my own, and I'm really thrilled 824 about it. Saving for college is my challenge now. You and Daddy are free to do whatever you want with your time and money. And it's about time you were released from all this worry of sending me to college. I'm ready to meet the world." The girl waved her arms above her head and grinned happily. Then she picked up the box containing the lace tablecloth. "Hurry, dears, let's go and see how our Thanksgiving table is going to look tomorrow. I'll bet it will be simply gorgeous!" She hurried down the hall and the long flight of steps, singing for the sheer joy of life. Miriam looked at Randy with tears on her lashes. She saw his eyes, now soft and tender, and a half smile played about his lips. He drew her over to where he stood. She felt the big hand on her shoulder, and he began leading her toward the stairs. "This should be a great Thanksgiving," said Randy, guiding Miriam firmly down the stairs, "even if there was frost in the valley." Miriam raised her head. Worries, troubles, cares and heartaches, spiraled off into space. She felt an overwhelming state of gratitude. With peace and love and security, Miriam did indeed feel the spirit of thanksgiving. She knew Randy had been right about Kathy. At that moment Miriam let go of her youngest daughter, and she went down the steps with a buoyant spring in her step. She smiled up at Randy. "Even if there was frost in the valley, we can always look forward to another year." His answer was a smile, with the firm pressure of his strong hand. Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Don L. (Alice Welti) Buehner, Second Counselor in the East Mill Creek Eighth Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah, and mother of six children under eleven years of age, became the new Mrs. America on August 28 in San Diego, California. The fifty contestants—one from each State—passed tests in baking, laundry, flower arrangements, auto driving, a Mrs. United States Savings Bond contest, essay writing, and self-expression. In the last category Mrs. Buehner sang "Sound of Music' and displayed an original painting of Logan Canyon, Utah. — Joan Sutherland, known as "'La Stupenda"' in the world of opera, returned to her native Australia in July 1965, to sing the role of the forsaken Scottish girl in Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor."' Critics described her voice as "'superb,''. And rated the performance as the best since Nellie Melba, also an Australian singer, performed the role in 1902. Richard Bonynge, husband of Joan Sutherland, directed the opera which was presented in ''Her Majesty's Theatre'"' in Melbourne. Blanche Wolf Knopf, of Viennese descent, is president of the Alfred A. Knopf Publishing Company, Incorporated, which this year is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its founding by her husband Alfred A. Knopf. Through the years they have worked side by side, priding themselves on the beauty of their books, as well as the contents. Among others, they have attracted many great European writers. Queen Juliana of the Netherlands has announced the engagement of her daughter Crown Princess Beatrix to Claus von Amsberg, a West German diplomat. The wedding will probably be held in the spring of 1966. Miss Marion Gridley, eminent journalist of Chicago, Illinois, and head of Publicity and Publications of the Chicago University Medical School, is an expert in public relations. She is a third-generation writer, and is an expert on Abraham Lincoln. She has won many national awards and two from Rome and Germany. She is also editor and publisher of Amerindian, a source magazine among. University and scientific circles on the American Indian. Mrs. Sharon Sites, thirty-four, of Los Angeles, California, sailed alone in a small boat from Marina del Rey to Hawaii. She embarked on June 12 and arrived in Hawaii on July 21st, after a journey of storm, danger, and oppressive loneliness, having weathered, among other hazards, a terrific six-day storm, which several times changed her course of direction. Mrs. Yvette Vaucher, a thirty-five year old Geneva, Switzerland, housewife, became the first woman to scale the dangerous north wall of the 14,700 foot atterhorn, in July. The face of the north wall is almost perpendicular, and experienced alpinists had considered the ascent not possible for a woman to accomplish. 825 EDITORIAL Under the Priesthood m In these the latter days, the greatness and the power of the Priesthood of God are being impressed upon every Latter-day Saint. The women, moreover, are having called to their attention the great and manifold blessings which come to them through the Priesthood, both as individuals and as members of the Relief Society. Prior to the establishment of Relief Society, there were no auxiliaries in the Church—no aids to the Priesthood. With what rapt attention the eighteen original members must have listened at the first meeting of Relief Society on March 17, 1842, whose minutes read: _.. That an organization to show them [the sisters] how to go to work would be sufficient. He [the Prophet Joseph Smith] proposed that... The sisters elect a presiding officer to preside over them, and let that presiding officer choose two counselors to assist in the duties of her office... And if they need his instruction ask him, he will give it from time to time. Let this Presidency serve as a Constitution—all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such. If any officers are wanted to carry out the designs of the institution let them be appointed and set apart... - The minutes of your meetings will be precedents for you to act upon—your Constitution and law. What an innovation in 1842 to have a woman's organization set up by a body of men and given counsel and instructions so that the organization would prosper and persist—and what an innovation it is in 1965 to have a woman's organization in which the officers are all called by inspiration and no electioneering and no jockeying for position exist! These conditions, alone, would set Relief Society apart from other women's organizations; but these features are not the unique one which differentiates Relief Society from every other woman's organization in the world today. No! The uniqueness of Relief Society depends upon its relationship to the most powerful force in the world —the power through which this world itself was created—the Priesthood of the Son of God. The strength and power of Relief Society itself stem from conditions which prevailed when the Prophet Joseph Volume 52 'November 1965 Number 11 © Belle S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor e Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer a | Smith in 1842 said ''! Will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood." The basic pattern on which Relief Society is established is, first of all, its divine origin. Founded through inspiration by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and guided and directed by him and the succeeding Presidents, apostles, and prophets of the Church, it cannot fail. The sisters of the Church accept and revere the Relief Society President, "the elect lady'' whom the President of the Church calls to preside over Relief Society. As she presides in harmony with the directive of the Prophet Joseph given on April 28, 1842, Relief Society fulfills its destiny: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood, which God has established through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation, and | now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice.... What power comes to Relief Society officers as they are called and set apart by the respective Priesthood authorities! They assume their duties humbly, but with the certain knowledge that they are women ''set apart.'' They have been given authority by the only power recognized by the Lord. Depending on that power, the officers are assured of an acceptable performance of their particular callings. Every Latter-day Saint woman should realize that the Lord estabfished Relief Society for her. Those in authority in Relief Society, moreover, should realize the responsibility that is theirs to watch over the sisters. It is not a responsibility to be cast aside or forgotten, for it is delegated to Relief Society by the Priesthood. The women of the Church are a potent part of the Church as they work in power under the instructions of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph remarked that ''This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized." Relief Society, organized ''under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood" is preeminent among women's organizations and will endure preeminent in the world. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner ——M. C. S. Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Irene C. Lloyd Anne R. Giedhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis 4 Ss Notes to the Fi. ~) Booklet "For the Strength of Youth" Available A booklet ''For the Strength of Youth''—Latter-day Saint Standards, is just off the press. It has been prepared by the general officers of the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations, together with the Brigham Young University and the Church School System and a large group of representative youth of the Church. It includes information on dress, hair fashions, good grooming, the proprieties, dating, acceptable dancing, and clean living. A Preface has been written by the First Presidency commending the recommendations contained in the treatise ''to all into whose hands they may come." The General Board calls this booklet to the attention of Relief Society members. All mothers would be wise to study it in order that they may be guided by its recommendations in rearing their children. The booklet may be purchased for 10c at the P. B. O. Central Distribution, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. No postage required. Money must accompany orders. "One More Story" Mabel Jones Gabbott How many times have | heard these words: "One more story... Just one, please...?" The hour is late; the lights are low; Their eyes are heavy, and still they tease, "One more story...."". And how many times Have | let the dishes and ironing wait, While | led their thoughts adventuring Down thunderous plains, or through fancy's gate? How many times in years to come Will we remember poignantly, The intimate half-dark, the urgent words, And the heroes riding brave and free? 828 @Annie's polishing cloth was stopped in mid-air as her hand paused in its work. She saw the first star prick the sky like a small, perfectly cut diamond. She saw it glisten in its appointed place and _ whispered, "Star light, star bright, first star I've seen tonight. I wish I may, I wish I might have the wish I wish tonight," as she had done. For as long as she could remember. She hesitated before she made her wish. There wasn't much she could wish for. She had so much. This apartment house—not large —on which she made some money, and had company in the building; she had her job at the music store half a day; health; friends, food, and warmth. What more could she ask? She had wished for a companion, someone to love her. But, she supposed she was too old for that now. Love had missed her. She was fifty. These other things must take its place. The only man she had ever cared for had been killed in an automobile accident. Her years Christie Lund Coles had been spent taking care of "Mama," until she died, and playing the piano in church, and in the piano store. Her main interest now was in her tenants. They were nice people. Fine. Barbara, the tall, dark-eyed girl from California going to school, too shy to make many friends though she was a delight when one knew her. Charlie Smoot, a bachelor, on the quiet side, too, though tall and good-looking; Mrs. Ames, a divorcee, and her five-year-old son: Grandma Lunt who tended the little boy while his mother worked; and Mr. And Mrs. Purdee who both worked and always seemed to have no problems. She loved them all. They were her family. She found herself wishing, "'Let everyone in the apartment have the merriest Christmas ever." Not that that could come quite true, because the merriest was when you were a child and everything was touched with wonder. Youth was an eternal Christmas, untouched as the snow which was beginning to fall softly outside. 829 NOVEMBER 1965 The fleece-gray clouds had hidden the star. From town, she could hear the chimes playing beloved Christmas carols. Beautiful! But, there were some her parents had loved which one sel]- dom heard: "Star of the East," "The Holy City." She had been polishing her piano—aq baby grand, for which She had_ saved for years—and now she laid the cloth down, wiped her hands on a clean polishing rag, and ran her hands across the keys. Soon the well]- loved chords were filling the room: the East, oh, > guiding us on She was singing the words, though she had sunig little lately. She had forgotten that her all, tomorrow night was ChristNo matter when the others were celebrating, being of Scandinavian descent, she would have her celebration Christmas Eve. She was brought back to reality by a quick rap at the door. "Yes," she called, rising, thinking it would be the delivery boy. Yet, when she reached the door she was Surprised to see Barbara standing there. An older man, graying, handsome, was_ beside her. "This is my father," the girl said swiftly, "] wanted him to meet you. He was about to postpone the meeting till he heard you singing." "Not much Singing, I'm afraid my mind was a long way off." Then, she added, quickly, "But, 830 do come in. I'm really glad to meet you, Mr. Hall. Barbara has spoken so much of you." He smiled. "Her letters are full I wanted to I appreciate her. Being alone... And So far away... It isn't always easy." "Why, it's nothing. I wish I could do more." She wished she knew how to get Charlie Smoot and Barbara to know each other better. Barpara smiled, "You do too much. She's really wonderful, Dad." He nodded. "And that tune you were playing.. - Why, I haven't heard it in years, My "Maybe, 'The Holy City'? J was just thinking of that." "Oh, yes. » Indeed. Yoy don't hear them anymore. Yoy hear 'Jingle Bells,' 'Reindeer,' all that stuff." Annie laughed, and he looked at her seriously, asking, "Would you, perhaps, be kind enough to Play it again. -. And sing it? We just got the end." "Tf you'll sing with me." "Well now. All right. Remember, you asked for it." She sat down again and began His Surprising tenor But sorry." This time, it was the package. But the moment had been spoiled. He said, "Oh, we really mustn't detain you. Perhaps sometime before I go back." "You mean, you're staying? You didn't come to take Barbara home for Christmas?" "Oh, no," Barbara assured her, "TI invited him up here. After all, I have my own apartment. I have a little tree. But I may need some help with my turkey, Christmas day." SuppDENLY,. An idea hit her, "You're celebrating Christmas day? I'm fixing dinner tomorrow night. Christmas Eve is the Danish custom. Why don't you both come down here and eat? Only Grandma Lunt is coming. We can't possibly handle an entire goose." "She's a_ darling,' Barbara said, and her father questioned, "Goose? Why, I haven't had one since we used to shoot our own. But... It's an intrusion... Christmas Eve and all." "Tf I had a family it would be different,' Annie told him frankly, "but I'm quite alone. It would really be a favor. And," she added, "then we could sing to our heart's content." "Sold," he agreed, "if Barbara's willing." "Oh, I am. That is, if you'll help me with the turkey and eat with us Christmas day." So the two of them left, and she returned to polishing the piano which reflected the lights on the small tree which she had just turned on. She did not pull her drapes, for it was not too dark, and she loved seeing the snow falling and the _ trees in other windows down _ the street. She hoped someone derived a bit of pleasure from hers. She was reassured in that hope "STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT" a moment later when she saw a man and a small boy pause on the walk and stare directly at it. They could not see her, and she was glad, or it might have spoiled it for them. The child was pointing toward the window, and even as he pointed, they turned their footsteps up. Her walk. It was. Almost with. A pain that she. Realized that it was little Paul from upstairs, and. His father. This had probably been his. Day with. The. Boy. How sad divorce. Was when there was a child, and when it was Christmas. Partings by death were inevitable, but when they could be avoided.... As Annie heard them open the outside door, she got up almost without thinking and_ hurried across the room. She opened the door and met them in _ the hall. "Hello," she called. (She had met him before when he had come for the child and he seemed to be a nice chap.) He answered, "Hello. Paul was just admiring your tree." "How nice. Why don't you bring him in and let him look at it? Please do." The young man hesitated, but finally stepped inside, shaking the flakes of snow from his shoulders, then brushing his son's coat as well. The child was drawn to the tree with its red and green lights, its small woven baskets, filled with candies, which her mother had taught her to make; the popcorn she had strung here in the evenings; the ornaments, and the gleaming star on top. "It's so pretty," he whispered, "so pretty. We only have a tiny one." She nodded. She knew, for she had seen the tinsel store tree set on the television set, 831 NOVEMBER 1965 with nothing on it but a few blue lights. Pretty enough, but not for a child's Christmas. Of course, if his mother didn't work things might be different. Sue knew Marcia, his mother, hadn't come home yet. So she asked them to sit down and passed them a box of candy the store had given her. Once more the man hesitated, saying he was not sure Paul's mother would approve. "But it is... Christmas," Annie said, "we have to make a few exceptions." "Yes," he agreed, his lips growing a little tight. Then, as though she had reminded him of something, he reached into his pocket and took out a_ small, carefully wrapped box. 'Would you mind giving her this? Just a remembrance...." She could hardly swallow for the pity that caught her throat. She answered, '"'Why don't you give it to her yourself? She's coming up the steps now. I can: always tell when it is she. She comes so quickly, as if she can't wait to get home to her little boy." "She does?" he asked. "I thought she loved her job." Annie couldn't do any more than shake her head before she was at the door, calling to the blonde young woman, stopping her. Marcia came in. Her child rushed to her arms, "Mommie! Daddy's here. Look at the tree." The girl, still young and pretty enough to be a bride, flushed as she saw the squarebuilt, athletic looking man stand up and speak, "Hi, Marcia," giving her a quizzical little smile 832 Saying,: that could have meant so many things. "Will you excuse me just a moment?" Annie asked them, "T must see to my cookies." She had baked them earlier and their fragrance was still in the air. She decided to put them in the cookie jar, to leave them alone. When she came back into the room, the couple was standing before the tree, the child holding the hand of each of them. She looked at them and somehow remembered the mother and father of Jesus, the following of the star; the ordeal at his birth; the going together to the temple in search of him. Parenthood was not something to be taken lightly. Oh, this girl, this young man, might have been her children. This small boy might have been her grandchild. They weren't of course. But maybe she could help them. As if she had just thought of it, she asked, "Why don't you come back later for some cookies?" "Tonight?" he questioned, whirling around. She paused before saying, "Well, why not make it tomorrow night, Christmas Eve? And why don't you come for supper with me. I've a great big goose that will be stuffed with prunes and apples. You and _ your mother...." "And my Daddy, too?" Somehow, she knew Paul would pick up the cue. "Yes, and your Daddy, too." The man looked at his wife— hopefully. She looked into their child's beseeching eyes. She shrugged, "Why not? But you must let me help you with something...." "There may be just plenty to do tomorrow, or when you get here. We'll worry about it then. Right now, though, I could use a little help in trussing that bird. I thought I'd get it ready tonight and start to bake it early in the morning." Marcia laughed. 'Rick here is the best bird trusser you ever saw. He always did my mother's." It was his turn to flush now, but his eyes were pleased. The three of them went into the kitchen while the boy still stared at the marvel of the tree. ANNIE sat in her favorite gold chair, her eyes on the piano. The work was all done, practically all the food was ready to be pushed into the oven, or steamed or whatever it needed. She still had one problem and she would have to be very subtle about it. As if the Christmas spirit were helping her, a knock came upon the door. It was quite late for callers, but, at this time of year, people came ao Anything could happen. And it did. For, as she opened the door, who should be standing there but Charlie Smoot, her problem in person. "Why, Charlie." she asked, "how are you? I haven't seen you~. For days. Where have you been?" Taken a bit by surprise, he answered truthfully, "Well, after work, I've just been walking around town, looking into windows, listening to the music. Christmas is a lonesome time when your family is two thousand miles away." "Oh, I'm sure that's true. But you mentioned something awhile back about going back there." She recalled it was in Minnesota "STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT" that his parents lived. She motioned to a chair. He sat down. "T decided I couldn't make it now. Maybe in the spring." "What are you doing for Christmas, then?" "TI don't know. Some of the fellows from the office are going on a skiing trip, stay at a lodge till after New Year's. That's why I thought I'd better come in and take care of my rent. Just in case I might stay beyond the first." "Nonsense. There's no hurry about that." She saw that he was hardly aware of what she was saying for staring at the tree. "That's really pretty. I saw you one night, decorating it, and wished I could come in and help you." Even his voice was wistful. She ached for him, too, and knew how lonely he really must have been to come in like this. "When would you be going?" she asked, carefully. "Oh, not till the day after Christmas, most of them have families here. A couple of them have invited me home, but that's really a family day. I wouldn't intrude." "T know. I'm alone, too, you know."" She almost asked for pity with her tone, but she wasn't thinking about herself. His head came up swiftly. He said, "That's right. And before I forget it, I have a little remembrance for you. You've been so nice." He was looking through the packages in his hands. She stopped him. ''Why don't you save it for tomorrow night? It would make me very happy if you would come down and have sup- 833 per. You tenants are my family now. IT going have roast oose "Oh, make it. Early, six-thirty, seven. We can have a long eve ning lB alt as long as if I were upstairs alone. Even the stores close early." They poth laughed, because they for long, i their children Sue was serving the mashed potatoes - - - slowly, to give them time n the knock came at ' " glad you came,, the table was ready, am lights from the tree reflected on the crystal, china, and_ silver i her hand, smiling at her in a Way Both Marcia and Chuck stood y with Annieholding hands. Para and Charlie were side by Barbara's father above her, turning They left with the ight," still soft on + with the agreement that all (except the Purdees who: problem anyway, and were going to be with children) promising come to Barbara's apartment the next day for turkey, although Barbara said, "After this, it will be anti-climactic." Annie told her, "Just Chuck here truss your bird." "Oh, I surely will," she replied. Charlie smiled down at her, saying, "I toss a swell salad." Chuck smiled at his wife and child, as he said, "This girl can make terrific gravy." Annie was sure the four of them wouldn't be lonely any longer. Mr. Hall held her hand in parting, saying, "Please call me let "STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT" John." Grandma Lunt kissed her and went home to her rich store of memories, and the thought of her grandchildren that she would be seeing next month. Alone, Annie sank onto the floor beside the window. She was sure she could see the star sparkling through the snow, high above the city and its sudden quietness. "Yes, the spirit of Christmas binds hearts," she whispered. What she didn't say, but what she knew in her heart was that sometimes the "Annie's" in the world assisted. Autumn Leaf Kathryn Kay | am old and withered, Yet here | cling To this tree That | have known Since spring. My friends are gone, Bereft am |, Yet | live on And cannot die. Ah, wind, Can you not hear my cry? | am old and withered Yet here | Stay.... Have pity, wind, Unloose me, Pray! Pledge Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Your words are kept within my heart As safe against surprise As precious buried treasure cached Away from curious eyes. 835 the Home Prayer After Hospitality Lael W. Hill Lord, Biess this house where | have been Fed and sheltered safe in love-—— Floors below and roof above. Let thy spirit flow and lean Warm against its every wall; Hold these rooms: as | was held Lightly, surely, in love's weld, Door and stair and turn of hall Where the feet of love ascend. As this home and all were mine, Be thou theirs, thy word a sign Breathed on them and, soft, Amen'd. Waiting for the Kettle to Boil Maxine T. Grimm really be accomplished. No reading time you say? One of my friends keeps her Relief Society Magazine in the kitchen. There is time to pick it up in the preparation of read during these waiting minutes. There are also paper-bound books of worthwhile biographies, poetry, and fascinating cookbooks, and then, there them newsy—take the time—not that this would be wasted time anyway— describe incidents. If, after you have reread your letter, you chuckle a bit yourself, you will know that it will give the receiver a chuckle also. Crocheting. Plan small projects that can be carried easily—afghans, or bedspreads of squares, bootees, or doll clothes. Make this your gift-making time. These are bonus gifts—extra ones that might never have been made. Think of the added Joy to you from giving these gifts, No time for practice? So many of us neglect talents that we once had for lack of time for practicing. Use a waiting minute to sit down at the piano or organ or to play the violin. Tuck a small hymn book in your bag to loosen up your vocal chords. Don't forget that when you are in the house or car you can sing—even whistle! Then, the most important of all, no time for thinking you say? You need no books, no thread, no props for this. Try to think constructive thoughts. Plan for tomorrow. Plan for the next day's activities, a family party, solve a knotty problem—how can you control John's temper, how can you improve conditions at home or in Relief Society meeting, what could you do for Aunt Mae who is ailing? Work ona long-range plan—college education for Jane. Whatever you do, recognize this wasted time. Be aware of its importance Time you say Is wasting away Well, let's take it and use it And twist it our way! 837 Fruit Cakes for Christmas Mabel hs Photo Courtesy American Institute of Baking For family enjoyment, for greeting guests at Christmas time, or for presenting as gifts, fruit cakes are a delicious and welcome treat for the holiday season. They may be made as early as six weeks before the time of serving, or as near to the occasion as may be convenient. They can be baked in pans of various sizes and shapes, but a lining of wax paper in the pans will help to keep the cakes from scorching and will preserve the moisture content. Low temperatures are necessary for baking fruit cakes, and the length of time will depend upon the moisture content of the cake and the size and shape of the pan used (a shorter length of time being necessary for a fairly thin cake to bake and a longer time for a thick cake). Many homemakers prefer to use a deep pan or a round tube pan. For gift cakes a round tin can is convenient in size and shape. If fruit cakes are to be stored for longer than a few days, they should be carefully wrapped in foil and stored in a cool place. Some homemakers first wrap the cake, as soon as it has been cooled, in a cloth dipped in cider or fruit juice, and then use a foil wrapping. The cake is then placed in the refrigerator so that it will not mold. Many recipes for fruit cakes can easily be changed by substituting other kinds of candied fruits and nuts than those listed in the recipe, but the measurements should be approximately the same. B38 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT DARK FRUIT CAKE 3 c. Brown sugar 1 Ib. White raisins 1 c. Butter 1 Ib. Dark raisins 4 eggs, beaten 1% |b. Citron 31% c. Flour 1 lb. Dates 1 tsp. Soda 1 c. Chunk pineapple 1 tsp. Salt: 14 c. Maraschino cherries 1 tbsp. Cinnamon 2 c. Nuts 1 c. Buttermilk Cream butter and sugar, add eggs. Sift dry ingredients and add to first mixture with buttermilk. Dredge fruit and nuts with flour and add. Bake 11% hrs. At 300°. Yield 7 lbs. YULE CAKE 144 c. Whole Brazil nuts 14 c. Seedless raisins 1144 c. Walnut halves 34, c. Sifted flour 1 c. Dates 34 c. Sugar 1 c. Chopped candied orange peel 14, tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Red maraschino cherries 1% tsp. Salt drained: 3 eggs 4 c. Green maraschino cherries 1 tsp. Vanilla drained Place nuts and fruit in a large bowl. Measure flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt; sift over fruit, blend well. Beat eggs, add vanilla, blend into nut-fruit mixture, spoon into loaf pan, spread evenly. Bake at 300° 134 hr. To 2 hrs., until firm on top. This makes one 9x5x3 loaf cake. Keeps well in refrigerator. It makes a very special gift. LIGHT FRUIT CAKE Y%, c. Flour 1 c. Shortening 1 pkg. Fruit mix (about 1 Ib.) l4 c. Sugar 1% |b. Candied cherries lc. Honey 1% |b. Dates 5 beaten eggs 3 ozs. Candied pineapple 114 c. Flour 4 ozs. Raisins 1 tsp. Salt 14 c. Walnuts 1 tsp. Baking powder 14 c. Pecans Y, tsp. Nutmeg 14 c. Orange juice 1% tsp. Cloves Mix nuts and fruit in large pan with 4% cup flour. Cream shortening and sugar, add honey and eggs. Mix dry ingredients, add alternately with orange juice. Pour batter over nut and fruit mix and blend well. Bake at 250° three hours and 15 minutes. GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE 1 square butter (14 Ib.) 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Sugar a 34 c. Milk 1 box graham crackers 3 egg yolks (30 halves crushed) 3 egg whites 34 ¢. Pecans Cream sugar and butter, mix with other ingredients. Beat egg whites stiff and fold in. Bake at 350° for 30 minutes. 839 T CAKE (Made Without flour) 1 | figs le, Pecans Mix and bake 1 refrj i 0 Minutes at 350°. Should be kept in the cut easily, ding Cake turn d Progress as a le in the Middle," fe) be Proud of hi ey were ready to ba Carefully in the. Ne child might 'S because It haq two layers. Ke, he ¢ ildren Wrapped their Pudding Cakes aking wen the Childre t quietly o th i Were Conducteq oft! D j ach describeq 1 jb. Dates 4 ozs. Candied Pineapple 02S. Cand d Cherries 2 Pkg. Fruit ix (8 oz 8: coconut (8 ozs.) loth, 4nd put them Yc almonds Yc filberts Brazils small ca €Vaporateg milk (6 Ozs.) nN under their Chairs to "b ke." w le . «hw > a e = >< ~ oy ~: s girs P * e Wt Gig,: ie Jie << 72. A" ort we SS eon F af peat ot; Y a motto Which js both €conomica} and Sreative—n ove, throw away anything that can be put to good use." She te and c i aS won Many Prizes at sta Crochet Work, Ne of her Principal Projects has been to Make a large Piece unty fairs for her Sewing, knitting, and Still sew On her electric Sewing Machine, with the aid of 4 Piece of tape as Suide, and a Self-threading needle. Recently She Made six quilt tops 4nd eight Sets of blocks. She designs Many of her Own quilt Patterns, and does her own Carding for WOO! Batts. Before Purchasing her new Sewing Machine, she jn. Vented a Way to Slit and join TUg rags Without Stitching them. Mrs, Hawkins has €en a Visiting teacher for Many years, and has Served Reliet Society aS. Work Meeting leader. She js the Mother of thirteen Children, i 4nd she h en. 84] B42 Shirley Thulin Chapter 7 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest Hospital, spends a week end with her roommate Kathy at the Kirk family farm and becomes attached to Joey, the youngest of the family. Later, Joey is critically injured in a farm accident, and all the staff at Hillcrest are greatly concerned over his condition. @ Joan and Doctor Desmond hurried to the emergency ward. The voice that summoned the doctor a few moments before sounded calm and impersonal, but they both knew the "calling Doctor Desmond" could mean Joey had taken a turn for the worse. Neither of them spoke the words that were uppermost in their thoughts, it was not necessary to speak. Joan felt what he was thinking, and by the time they reached the first floor, she also felt that there was a close bond between them. When they reached Joey's room, the nurses were working frantically with the child. Joan's first thoughts were for Kathy. "Kathy, come out with me," Joan begged. "No, Joan. I can't leave." "Where are your folks?" "They made them go, but I can't, please." "Kathy, you've got to forget you're a nurse. You are family." "Please go, Kathy," Doctor Desmond said, and then hurried to Joey's bed. "Your folks need you." "Uncle Jay's with them." "You can't do any good here. Your mother needs you." Joan felt Kathy relax. "You're right," she said, "Mom needs me," and she left. In a few minutes it was all over. Little Joey was dead. Doc- tor Desmond's shoulders were bent. He didn't say anything to Joan as he brushed past to go for Kathy. Joan felt that she was living a nightmare from the past. I let it happen again, she thought. In spite of my careful planning and reasoning, I have become involved again. I loved little Joey and now he's gone. She went to her room. Hours passed and Joan lay there on her bed, waiting. She didn't know what she was waiting for. Was she expecting Kathy to come? Was she wishing Doctor Desmond would call, or Doctor Niles? She had never felt so unwanted or unneeded. Then she remembered that Tom would be waiting for her. It was a little past two and she had told him she would take him to therapy. She got up and went to his room. "All ready?" she asked him. "I'm not going," he told her. "Of course you are." She pushed the wheel chair closer to his bed. "It's no use, Miss Morgan. I know my legs won't get any better. There isn't one bit of feeling in them." "But they can fit you with braces. They can teach you so many things... How to get into and out of a wheel chair by yourself. How to dress and undress by yourself...." Tom was silent. It seemed, that he wasn't even listening to her. "Little Joey died, didn't he?" he finally asked.; "Yes, yes, Tom, he did." "TI knew, because when I asked about him, Doctor Desmond acted funny." ""How long ago was Doctor Desmond here?" RING AROUND HER HEART "Just a few minutes ago. I think he was looking for you. Miss Morgan, can we go tomorrow? I don't want to go now. | re ' "No use putting off till tomorrow...." ~ "But I know they can't help me. Why did little Joey have to go? Why couldn't it have been I?" "Because your mother needs you, Tom." ""No, she doesn't. I've been here for almost six months and she has been getting along without me just fine." "That's not true...." "Joan," Doctor Desmond came into the room. "Are you busy? Could you come here a minute?" "T'll be back, Tom." Doctor Desmond walked a few steps down the hall and then turned to Joan. "I wonder if you could help Kathy pack a few things. They are going home now. She'll be off for a week or so." "Of course. Tell Tom I'll be back later." "T will, and Joan.... "Ves?" "Thanks...." In the weeks that followed, Joan was miserable. For awhile she thought it was the lingering depression brought on by the funeral and the memory of Joey, but now she knew it was more than that. She recognized the old feeling of despair. I feel just the same as I did just before I came here, she told herself. She tried working extra shifts hoping to tire herself to the point where she could sleep, but night after night she lay sleepless. She became enclosed again within herself, and more determined not to let herself get too close to anyone. The nurses who had begun to be a "? B43 NOVEMBER 1965 little friendly toward her were beginning to avoid her again. Joan worked very hard but she seemed to derive no special joy in her work, as she had when she first had come to Hillcrest. The only thing that gave her pleasure was in working with Tom. "You will soon be ready to go home," she told him. She turned a deaf ear to his insisting that 'he wasn't going home. One day Joan went to Tom's room when Doctor Desmond was there. "This boy is ready to be released," he told her. "Really? That's wonderful. Do you hear that, Tom?" "Ves," "He won't let us call his mother." "I'm not ready to leave the hospital yet. I have to find a place... Miss Morgan, I can do a lot for myself, but I have to find a place...." "We won't call your mother until you want us to," Doctor Desmond told him. "T don't know what to do," Tom said. "Tom, have I ever told you anything that wasn't true?" Joan asked. "No." "Well, when I was at the Kirk farm, I met your mother, and she told me how she needed you home. She said it was more than she could handle. She needs a man to ride herd on those kids." "T've been thinking... You know, about little Joey? Someone needs to watch after the little kids and keep them off the horses. They are too little to ride," Tom said. "When shall we call her, Tom?" g44 "Right now, Miss Morgan, I'm going home!" When Doctor Desmond and Joan walked down the hall to the phone, they were quiet. Joan had a place in her throat that she felt was getting bigger and bigger and she couldn't talk. She knew she should be happy that Tom was leaving, but she somehow wasn't. There won't be anything left when he goes, she thought. I won't have a thing to keep me here. As they reached the desk, there was a stiffness in the air that they both felt. The attitude of the nurses and the awkward silence that prevailed told them that something was wrong. And Joan, catching sight of Kathy walking swiftly down the hall, was afraid she knew what the matter was. She had noticed that several times lately Kathy had caused feelings among the nurses. She has been almost rude to them, Joan thought. "What seems to be the trouble?" Doctor Desmond asked, looking in the file for Tom's card. "Trouble?" Miss Jackson's voice was heavy with sarcasm. "We never have any trouble." "Kathy been giving you a bad time again?" He didn't look up, just kept on writing. And when no one chose to answer him, he finished signing Tom's release and walked away. Joan had found Mrs. Aines's phone number and began to dial. She was glad for something to do to dispel the awful moment. She was also glad to be the one to spread the good news of Tom's release, and could well imagine the excitement it brought to his mother and the children. She will be baking and cleaning like everything for the next two days, Joan thought, as she hung up and went to find Kathy. When Joan didn't find Kathy in the cafeteria, she went to their room. Kathy was there, sitting by the window, and when Joan stepped into the doorway, she got up and picked up her purse. "Just a minute, Kathy," Joan said. "I want to talk to you." "What about?" There was a tone in Kathy's words that was certainly not like the Kathy of a few weeks ago, and Joan didn't know quite what she did want to talk to her about. "What was the matter today? Did someone do something to offend you?" "What do you mean?" "When Doctor Desmond and I came from Tom's room, the air around the desk was bristling, and you were hurrying away." "So?". "So what was the matter?" Joan was beginning to get angry at Kathy's attitude, but she didn't let it show. "I don't have the faintest idea what you mean. As far as I know, everything is working out just fine." The phone rang and Joan was closer to it than Kathy, so she reached out to pick it up. "If that's Dean," Kathy said, "tell him I have gone out for the evening and you don't know where." Joan waited until the door closed behind Kathy then she answered the phone. "Hello." "Hello. Is Kathy there?" "No. She just left. Oh, Doctor Desmond, I'm worried about that girl. She's acting so Strangely." "IT hardly expected you to notice. When you see her, tell RING AROUND HER HEART her Ill be waiting for her at breakfast. I have something important to tell her." The phone clicked and for a moment Joan held it and wondered what the doctor had meant, but so many things didn't make sense to her lately, that she put the receiver back in place and decided not to try to puzzle it out. Tuart night Joan lay for a long time in the darkness and thought. The night noises brought her back to the first night she had lain like this. She wished she could recapture the feeling of contentment she had had then. Now her feelings were all mixed up, with the thoughts of resigning uppermost among them. But where would I go, and what would I do? She asked herself. If I go to another hospital, it would only be a matter of months until the same thing would happen to me. She was beginning to drop off to sleep from exhaustion when she heard Kathy's key in the door. It was well past ten, and that, too, was reminiscent of her first night at Hillcrest. Kathy began to undress without turning on a light, so as not to disturb Joan, but Joan spoke her name softly in the darkness, "Kathy...." "Yes, I know, I'm late." There was a trace of sarcasm in her voice. "Not very," Joan said. You feel better?" "T feel fine,"' Kathy told her. "Kathy, you've got to get hold of yourself. You are only making things harder...." "Joan, I have never felt better. I feel that at last I have grown "Do 845 NOVEMBER 1965 up. At last I know where I'm going and how to get there." "You're lucky, Kathy, many of us know that." "You do, Joan. And now I do, too. I know that you were right all along... That you have to build up a protection so that nothing can get to you. I'm going to do that. I'm going to be a fine nurse, Joan, just like you." The flood of tears that sprang forth from deep within Joan surprised her so that she didn't dare say anything. She didn't want Kathy to know she was crying... Silently crying into her pillow. She lay there in the darkness wanting to tell Kathy that she was wrong. But was she? What was wrong? What was right? Joan didn't know. She didn't know and the not knowing frightened and sickened her, and the night was long and sleep didn't come until almost dawn. The first thing Joan was aware of was the insistent ringing of the phone. It was Doctor Desmond. "Where's Kathy?" he asked. "I don't know. In her bed, I suppose, I just woke up... Just a minute...." But Kathy was not not in her bed, and Joan went back to the phone and told him so. "Did you tell her what I told you to?" he asked. "I..." and for a moment Joan couldn't remember if she had or not. "We talked, but then, I guess I forgot...." "Joan, I hope you're satisfied. Do you realize what you've done to that girl? Does it matter to you that she's patterned herself after you, and has withdrawn so that I can't even reach her? There for a little while I thought you had become almost human. But you still have that ring around your heart. A heavy steel band that won't let any affection out. Well it works both ways, Joan. It won't let any in, either. "I'm going to marry Kathy. We're going to take Tom home tonight, and I'm going to talk to her all the way back until she sets a day." He hung up and Joan wanted to cry, but there were no more tears. Today I will hand in my resignation, she told herself. And then... And then what? She quickly dressed and went towards Doctor Niles's office. (To be concluded) Angel Child Ethel Jacobson She's an angel, she's a darling, She's quiet as a mouse. You wouldn't even know There's a baby in the house. No crash of toys and dishes, No wailing—not a peep. She's an angel, she's a darling. She's asleep. 846 Relief Socie nd Visiting Teachers » 1965 ty Honors Seated, front TOM, let 1, right: Grace H. West, first President; Irma airbanks, Second President: Lois ike Hodgkinson, third President. Shirley H. Orton, th President Lucille, ristoffey, on, fifth President: rgaret Johnso ucatio Ounselor; lzabeth Mark *cretary-Treasurer ister H, on, now Tray Stake Preside » Teports: « he year 1965 Marks the thirte th year of j Per cent Visiting t aching in t Tay Eighth a arch 9} Work eeting luncheo. Visiting teachers and al] Tmer Presidents of the ighth d Relief So ty we honored n he w. Rganize thirteen years ag » there Were fifteen Visiting teachIng districts With irty Visiting teachers t t Present Ime there are: e hirty-foy, districts, With Sixty-eight Visiting teachers It was under the / t leadership of Sister West that the commendable record in Visiting teaching Was first established » 847 NOVEMBER 1965 Panguitch Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Honors Visiting Teachers May 15, 1965 Front row, left to right: Myrtle Riggs, Work Counselor; Beth Tebbs, President; Arvilla Holman, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary Simkins, Magazine representative; Thora Foy, organist. Back row, left to right: Olive Sudweeks, work meeting leader; Hilda Chidester, visiting teacher message leader, Myrtle Slack, social science class leader; Elna Fox, literature class leader; Beverly Cannon, theology class leader; Verda Tebbs, chorister. Inset: Jane Westwood, Education Counselor. Sister Beth Tebbs reports: "On May 15, 1965, approximately 150 sisters, and Priesthood representative Arthur Gottfredson attended an inspirational program of music and verse in honor of the visiting teachers. Hilda Chidester paid a special tribute to fourteen teachers who had made the most 'at home' visits. They were presented with lovely lace head scarfs. All visiting teachers were given bookmark favors, and summer visiting teacher messages in booklet form. Sister Simkins was in charge of a very fine Magazine arrangement, using the 1964 issues. Each board member was assigned a Magazine from which she chose articles and recipes for her part of the display. A dainty luncheon was served by the stake board members. Lehi Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Conference May 9, 1965 Edith P. Backman, representing the General Board of Relief Society, is seated at the left of the podium; Leah Sabey, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, is seated to the left of Sister Backman; seated on the right in the first row: Marilyn Neilson, accompanist; in the third seat from the right, first row: Eva Carson, accompanist; Vera Trane, chorister, is seated at the right of the podium. Sister Sabey reports that the Singing Mothers presented' music for stake conference in the new stake center, singing at both sessions of conference. Flagstaff Stake (Arizona), Third (Lamanite) Branch Relief Society Holds First Bazaar November 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Ethel Holyoak, class leader; Rose Tanakeyowma. Secretary; Verla Wheeler, First Counselor; Louise Langston, President; Sylvia Sorenson, Work Counselor; Ivy Norton, visiting teacher message leader. Standing, back row, left to right: Dorothy Barlow; Ila Lomawaima; Peggy Norton; Elvira Norton; Lillian Yaiva; Ramona Ladeyo; Annie Jackson; Flora Portillo; Kay Estes; Grace Alonzo. Helen B. Adams, President, Flagstaff Stake Relief Society, reports: "Shown here are the officers and members of the Flagstaff Lamanite Branch surrounding their first quilt. Since its organization, two years ago, the group has grown to twenty-seven in number. Besides the sale of the quilt and two baby's quilts, a variety of handiwork articles were made, including aprons, pillowcases, dish towels, knitted slippers, table centerpieces, Christmas corsages, wall plaques, children's clothing, lint pickers, and a variety of other items. "The evening was spent in socializing, and refreshments were served, featuring Indian fry bread, beans, chili, tamales, homemade ice cream, and an assortment of baked goods." 848 NOVEMBER 1965 San Diego South Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 19, 1965 Front row, (first four sisters) left to right: Leonora Bascom, violinist; Melba P. Vance, President, San Diego South Stake Relief Society; Wynefred B. Trentman, accompanist; LaVada L. Davis, chorister. Sister Vance reports: "This chorus of sixty-five voices did an outstanding job of presenting a program of folk songs and sacred songs for the enjoyment of a large and appreciative audience. Guest presentations included a male soloist, a violin soloist, and a guitarist who played the accompaniment for one of the numbers. A special narration was given by President George R. Bascom, a member of the stake presidency. Refreshments and a social followed the concert. We received many wonderful comments from the members of the stake and their friends who attended. We love and appreciate these-sisters for their service. Many hours of practice went into the preparaticn of this concert. As the stake chorus is made up of the ward Singing. Mothers choruses we have had the pleasure of hearing from these ward: groups at our leadership meetings. They have also furnished the music for sacrament meetings when invited to do so by their bishops." Woodruff Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present "A Night of Music' May 14, 1965 Standing in front of the pulpit, at the left: Gayle Argyle, stake chorister; at the right: Gail Satterthwaite, stake organist. Donna M. Groll, President, Woodruff Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Woodruff Stake presented the first Singing Mothers concert ever to be given in the Stake. There were nine out of the eleven wards participating, with the singers from one ward traveling 125 miles to sing. Each ward prepared two special songs, and then 144 Singing Mothers combined to sing 'The Heavens Were Opened,' 'He That Hath Clean Hands,' and 'Song of Home.' Everyone present thrilled to the beautiful music. We felt the evening to be a real success and hope to make the concert an annual affair." Edmonton Stake (Canada) "'Coming Out" Social April 30, 1965 Standing in front, left to right: Lori and Si Peterson. Back row, left to right: June Wall, wearing a homemade Klondyke dress; Jean Jones; Bonnie Burnham; Barbara Burnham; Faye Pitcher. Marie C. Burnham, President, Edmonton Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Societies of Edmonton Stake combined to present a 'Coming Out' social. Contributions from every ward and branch made up the displays of handicrafts which circled the cultural hall. There were over five hundred Latter-day Saint sisters, which represents over fifty per cent of the Latterday Saint women of Edmonton Stake. "The evening's program included 'Literature Highlights' from the Wetaskwin Branch; a home sewing fashion show from the Edmonton wards (representing fashions sewed under the direction and sponsorship of Relief Society); a skit by the Red Deer Ward; and music by the Singing Mothers. The film 'The Awakening' added the final touch to the evening. Light refreshments were served, and copies of The Relief Society Magazine were available, so that those who were not familiar with the Magazine could become acquainted with it. We feel that the social stimulated interest in Relief Society and was very successful." 850 NOVEMBER 1965 Samoan Mission Relief Society Board Holds District Annual Conventions and Monthly Leadership Meetings Front row, seated, left to right: Mua Aiono, Education Counselor; Sisilia Hunt, President; Vaelaa Utai, Work Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Eleva Roberts; Faleupolu Manuo; Kaleta Scott; Dawn C. Hanks, former supervisor, Samoan Mission Relief Society; Alatana Soli; Fetalaiga Nonu. Sister Hanks reports: ''For well over two years, under local leadership, the members of the mission board have held regular district annual conventions and monthly leadership meetings. With over 900 members of Relief Society in the Samoan Mission. Leadership training is the major emphasis of the mission board. Each of eighty-six branches has a Relief Society branch conference once a year, visited by board members. Each of ten districts has an annual convention. During 1964 a special feature of this convention was the presentation by board members of "Truths to Live By' dramatizing the vitality of visiting teaching. This year they are following, as closely as possible, the stake convention outline. Every month these sisters travel many miles by bus on rough roads or by boat on stormy seas, staying overnight, and often walking part way to attend district Relief Society leadership meetings. Four of the sisters in the picture have taken temple excursion trips and have been to New Zealand to do their temple work since they have been serving as members of the board." Ardis Price is the new supervisor of the Samoan Mission Relief Society. 852 NOTES FROM THE FIELD East Provo Stake (Utah), State Hospital Branch Observes Fourth Anniversary of Its Organization March 17, 1965 Left to right: Florence Tyler. Literature class leader; Kate Thomas, theology class leader; Margaret Dustin, chorister; Orlinda Wright, First Counselor; Erma V. Jacobs, President; Cora Bean, Second Counselor; Fawn Christensen, organist; Cleone Tyler, Secretary-Treasurer; Lydia Moffett, social science class leader. Fay P. Loveless. President, East Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture was taken on the fourth anniversary of the organization of the Hospital Branch. The beautiful birthday cake was decorated in blue and gold, and later served with ice cream to the seventy-eight members from the hospital. A lovely yellow plastic daffodil was given to each sister to take to her room. The Relief Society colors of blue and gold were used in the decorations on the table and throughout the room. "An interesting program was given, telling of the organization of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The lives of each of the nine General Presidents of Relief Socity were then read by a sister, as a picture of each one was flashed on a large screen with an opaque projector. Lovely musical numbers were presented by sisters from other wards in East Provo Stake, under whose direction the Hospital Branch functions. We have an attendance of from forty-eight to one hundred one, but the average attendance is fifty-six." 853 THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 69—Great Truths; the School of the Prophets (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:117-141) For First Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To learn how Section 88 speaks ''peace'' to the members of the Church, and to be instructed in principles that pertain to gospel learning. INTRODUCTION Through this revelation (Section 88) given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we have learned that peace is spoken to all men. The section begins with an exposition on the Holy Ghost and the functions and blessings of the "light of Christ." A message of peace to all who read Section 88 is that earth-life—mortality— is of extreme importance in the great plan of life and salvation, for each of us will be resurrected with a tangible, immortal body that, together with our spirit, will endure throughout the eternities in the kingdom which we have merited through our obedience to laws. The physical infirmities of mortality will be corrected, for in the resurrection 854 men will be physically perfect. (Alma 11:42-45; 40:23.) The Lord further spoke peace to his saints in certifying to the reality of the life beyond the grave, and that the faithful Latter-day Saint will find blessed association with loved ones with the joy of coming forth in the first resurrection to advance onward to the perfection of eternal life. (D&C 88:97-98; 76:50-70; Lesson 66, Relief Society Magazine, August 1965.) This revelation also assures man that the universe is governed by law and, thus, man can have a sense of security and faith in himself and in the Creator. The Latter-day Saint realizes that God is omnipotent, omnipresent, and omniscient; that he knows the end from the beginning, and is in control of all his kingdoms. He may, thus, have his prophets foretell the present conditions and also the future that the saints may enjoy this peace. (JAMES E. TALMAGE, Articles of Faith, page 491.) There is peace in the knowledge that prayers are answered and that God's truth is unchanging—it abideth forever, having no end! We are taught, also, in this revelation of the need for prayer and fasting, and of the application of knowledge—both secular and gospel—that prepares one to be a more effective servant. One of the important segments of knowledge in the 88th Section is the information about world conditions before the coming of the Savior, and also events which will culminate in the final victory of the Etemal Father through his Son Jesus Christ. (Lesson 68, Relief Society Magazine, October 1965.) ORGANIZED STUDY The verses which follow in Section 88 (verses 117-141), instruct the elders to organize study activities that they may effectively present their message to the world. In the process of giving directions on how this organized study may be accomplished, great truths are enunciated to guide them in their study. In this revelation, the Lord calls upon his servants, those who are the first laborers in this last kingdom, to organize themselves and to purify their hearts that they may be accepted by the Father. (Verses 74-75.) They are also instructed to come together in a solemn assembly where the Priesthood members LESSON DEPARTMENT may prepare themselves by study and by faith. (Verse 117.) "AS ALL HAVE NOT FAITH" The Lord placed emphasis upon the necessity of his people to seek learning from the best books. The following passage is found not only in the "Olive Leaf," but also in the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple. (D&C 109:7.) And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D&C 88:118). Faith is a gift of God through Jesus Christ. The Savior made it possible to have faith in him through his sacrificial death in "bringing about means unto men that they may have faith unto repentance" (Alma 34:15). The spark of faith with which men are born, engendered by the "light of Christ," is increased in many ways. Although faith is a gift, it must be accepted and developed to bring men back into God's presence. One way in which faith is enlarged is through study. When men learn what the Lord Jesus Christ has done for them, there is quickened in their hearts a love which grows and deepens as they realize the meaning of the atonement. In the Book of Mormon, Jacob, son of Lehi, reveals that only through the atonement of Jesus would mankind receive a_ resurrection from the dead. Without the atonement, all mortals would go into the spirit world to remain forever and ever, "to rise no more." Realizing the wisdom, goodness, mercy, and greatness: 855 NOVEMBER 1965 of the great plan, the Nephite prophet continues: O the wisdom of God, his mercy and grace! For behold, if the flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no more. And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself.... O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a way for our escape from the grasp of this awful monster; yea, that monster, death and hell... (2 Nephi 9:8-10). When an honest man realizes what might. Have been had there been no atonement, his love for the Etermal Father and _ his Atoner, Jesus Christ, is quickened, and faith grows in his heart. Alma explained that when the soul is touched by desire through understanding of the Lord's plan, "it beginneth to enlarge" and enlighten the understanding and, as this seed is nurtured by good works of diligence and patience, the rewards of faith come. (Alma 32:21-43.) In 1832, the brethren were counseled that, since all did not have faith, a way to develop this gift would be to study words of wisdom from the best books. Viewed from the purpose of life which can only be considered from the eternity of the past as well as the future, the "best books" are those which give man knowledge and faith in God's eternal purposes. To the Latterday Saint, these are the standard works of the Church—the Bible, The Book of Mormon, the Doctrine and Covenants, and the 856 Pearl of Great Price—and the sermons and writings of God's prophets. Brigham Young, Jr., an apostle, expressed this necessity in these words:.. I say unto you fathers, let your Bible, the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants be upon your tables, and have them read in your households. Elders of Israel, read them, especially the Book of Mormon, which is a pure translation from the original. He who reigns above has said that it is true. There is more contained in the Book of Mormon pertaining to this great work of the latter days than can be found in all the rest of the books put together, save only the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. It delineates and foreshadows the destiny of the Latter-day Saints... (Conference Report, October 1901, page 67). It was indicated also in last month's lesson that all useful knowledge should be _ sought after, but it remains true that the knowledge that brings exaltation comes by revelation. Elder John A. Widtsoe said: There are of course many kinds of knowledge; some of lesser, some of higher value. When Joseph Smith said that man cannot be saved in ignorance [D&C 131:6], he meant naturally ignorance of the laws which altogether lead to salvation. Such knowledge is of the highest value. It should be sought after first. Then other kinds of knowledge may be added to support and amplify the more direct knowledge of spiritual law... (Evidences and Reconciliations 3:71). "BY STUDY AND ALSO BY FAITH" In the obtaining of the knowledge that saves here and in the hereafter, effort and faith must be used. The trusting and, believing soul, who, in his humility, seeks the Lord's will through the scriptures and the living prophets, finds his reward. The doubter, lacking teachableness and submissiveness, finds himself receiving the lesser portion of revealed truth. Alma gave these ideas in a way that impresses one with the strength of his conviction: And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full (Alma 12:10). How shall we receive knowledge by faith? Elder B. H. Roberts has given us an insight into this tremendous thought in these words: Knowledge by faith! What a thought—knowledge by faith! But let no one suppose that knowledge by faith is to be obtained by an easy road or method. It will demand effort and strenuous life and the exaltation of life itself to obtain knowledge by faith.... You perhaps remember in our Word of Wisdom, that it is said if the saints will observe that Word of Wisdom, and keep the commandments of God, that they shall have access to hidden treasures of knowledge by reason of faith. Knowledge by faith requires exalted living.... But it is no lazy man's task—this getting knowledge by faith. It requires the bending of the whole soul, the calling up of the depths of the human mind, and linking them with God—the right connection must be formed. Then comes knowledge by faith (Discourses of B. H. Roberts, pp. 25-26). SERIOUSNESS OF PURPOSE There is nothing in this life that requires more serious study than to learn the purpose of existence and then to determine how that purpose can be accomLESSON DEPARTMENT plished. In order that the Lord's servants might be prepared to undertake their positions as: missionaries to testify and warn the world, it was necessary that a house be prepared where they might study, pray, fast, and grow in faith. (D&C 88:119.) Later, the people were reprimanded for not following the counsel to build the Kirtland Temple which served this purpose. (Ibid., 95: 11-17.) Light speeches, wicked doings, light-mindedness, and all loud laughter arising out of boisterous conduct should not be permitted when men came together to be enlightened by the Spirit. '(Ibid., 88:121; Lesson 67, Relief Society Magazine, Sept. 1965.) The following advice, based upon this passage, was given by President Joseph F. Smith:... The Lord has called upon us to be a sober-minded people, not given to much laughter, frivolity and lightmindedness, but to consider thoughtfully and thoroughly the things of his kingdom that we may be prepared in all things to understand the glorious truths of the gospel, and be prepared for blessings to come. Let me read a verse from the Doctrine and Covenants. This is the command of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. "Remember the great and_ last promise which I have made unto you. Cast away your idle thoughts and your excess of laughter far from you." And then again, in the same section, I have read from Section 88:69; I now read from verse 121: "Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and lightmindedness and from all your wicked doings." This is the word of the Lord to the Latter-day Saints. I believe that it is necessary for the Saints to have amusement, but it must be of the proper kind. I do not believe the Lord intends and desires that we should pull a long face and look sanc- 857 NOVEMBER 1965 timonious and hypocritical. I think he expects us to be happy and of a cheerful countenance, but he does not expect of us the indulgence in boisterous and unseemly conduct and the seeking after the vain and _ foolish things which amuse and entertain the world. He has commanded us to the contrary for our own good and eternal welfare (Conference Report, October 1916, page 70). CEASE TO BE COVETOUS The last of the Ten Commandments concerns covetousness. Covetousness is to long inordinately for something that is another's. (Exodus 20:17.) Richard L. Evans, of the Council of the Twelve, has pointed out that all of the Ten Commandments are inter-related, and the last one—''thou shalt not covet''—is related to the others in this way: He who covets the mere material "things" of life may' have "other" gods before him, and may "bow down before them," in thought and in spirit, if not in physical fact. He who covets may become coarse and careless in other things also, such as taking "the name of the Lord God in vain." He who covets may desecrate the Sabbath day to get gain. He who covets may fail to sustain his father and his mother in their need. Some who have coveted have killed to get gain. Many who have coveted a "neighbour's wife" have committed the grievous sin of adultery. He who covets is more likely to steal (or to swindle or embezzle or engage in sharp practices). He who covets may bear false witness to get gain (The Ten Commandments Today, page 142). There is another phase of covetousness implied in the same 858 passage from which this discussion is taken; namely, that one should not be stingy with his knowledge of the gospel. "Learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires." Those who have the ability and the information to enlighten the lives of others should bring forth the words of salvation to their fellow men. As members of the Church we should bear our testimonies— "impart one to another as the gospel requires. The words of eternal life are to be spoken appropriately, however, and without giving offense. OTHER TRUTHS Counsel is given the elders to cease from idleness, uncleanliness, finding fault with one another; sleeping longer than is needful. And, then, as if to climax a series of great truths with one truth that, if lived, would comprehend all others—love—the Lord revealed: And above all things, clothe yourselves with the bond of charity, as with a mantle, which is the bond of perfectness and peace. Pray always, that ye may not faint, until I come. Behold, and lo, I will come quickly, and receive you unto myself. Amen (D&C 88:125-126). As said elsewhere in this lesson, it is only through what Jesus has done for us that we may receive joy. Unbounded instead of misery. "Clothe yourselves with the bond of charity." Charity is the pure love of Christ. (Moroni 7:47.) Without this love, no man can inherit the kingdom of heaven. (Ether 12: 34; 2 Nephi 26:30.) One can understand the emphasis put upon the need for charity by Paul in view of The Book of Mormon teaching on this great virtue. (I Cor. 13.) Peace is promised the Church in the truths given in this lesson and ending with the counsel to become clothed with the love of Christ. SCHOOL OF THE PROPHETS In order that the holders of the Priesthood might learn their duties and receive instruction in the gospel and other subjects which would prepare them for the ministry, the Lord commanded that there be organized a School of the Prophets. (D&C 88:119-120, 122, 127-141.) The manner in which this school was to be conducted is given in this revelation. (Verses 122, 128- 136.) Only those, however, who were clean from the blood of this generation were to participate. (Verse 138.) Preaching the gospel and keeping the covenants were the means by which these elders could be made clean. In the winter of 1832-33, the School of the Prophets was organized in Kirtland where the meetings were conducted. The ordinance of washing of feet was attended to as cormmanded. (Verses 139-141; Essentials in Church History, page 151.) The brethren (many of whom had not had the opportunity for formal school education) were thirsting for knowledge. The Lord made provision through this plan that they might learn of the doctrine of the kingdom and secular subjects. These men were different from others in that they had the Holy Ghost to LESSON DEPARTMENT enlighten them in their learning. President John Taylor said: Now, then, if men, without much of the advantage of what is termed education in this world, are filled with the Spirit of God, the revelations of the Holy Ghost, and can comprehend the relationship of man to God, can know their duties, and can teach a people, a nation, or a world how they may be saved and obtain thrones, principalities, powers, and dominions in the eternal worlds—if men can understand these principles by the gift of the Holy Ghost and the revelations of the Most High, and are enabled to place them before the people so that they can comprehend them, then, I say, these are the men of education— the men of intellect—the men who are calculated to bless and ennoble the human family. This is the kind of education that we want; and the more simple those principles can be conveyed the better: they are more adapted to the wants and intelligence of the human family.... This is the difference between the system 'that we have embraced and the systems of the world—they are of men, this is of God.... What did 'any of us know as rational, eternal beings, until we were educated in this Church? (Journal of Discourses 5:260-261). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. According to Jacob of The Book of Mormon, what would have happened to man if Jesus Christ had not made the atonement? 2. In what way is faith a gift of God? 3. Why would you believe that the standard works of the Church and the sermons and writings of the modern prophets are the "best" books? 4. How is knowledge by faith gained? 5. Show the relationship of the commandment "thou shalt not covet" with the other nine commandments. 6. For what purpose was. The School of the Prophets organized? 859 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 69——''Abide Ye in the Liberty Wherewith Ye Are Made Free" (D&C 88:86). For First Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To describe the nature of liberty and its dependence upon the laws of righteousness. @ The complete passage in the Doctrine and Covenants from which the above statement is taken, reads "Abide ye in the liberty wherewith ye are made free; entangle not yourselves in sin, but let your hands be clean, until the Lord comes." The emphasis in this inspired scripture is on the unalterable fact that righteous living blesses the human soul with freedom. On the other hand, the entanglement of sin brings bondage. All of life's experiences prove the truthfulness of these statements. Sin, as the apostle John pointed out, "is the transgression of the law" (I John 3:4). Laws are established to ensure man's freedom. This is true both in secular and spiritual laws. In a free country police forces are established so that men may move freely in their communities without fear of molestation or danger to their lives or personal 860 property. Likewise, God's laws are established to guarantee our freedom. The Ten Commandments were given not as _ restraints or impositions, but rather as guides to full and purposeful living. Man cannot break God's commandments nor the laws of nature; rather, if he attempts to violate them, he breaks himself against them and destroys his personal freedom. The Lord has said, "I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free" (D&C 98:8). If we really desire to maintain our God-given freedom under his divine plan of free agency, we must free ourselves from the pitfalls of sin and from the transgression of the law. Let us keep from being led into temptation. Let us seek those experiences that will help us develop the most worthwhile qualities of our characters and personalities. Let us seek wholesome companionships and environments and search for the good and beautiful in life. In all of our actions, let us scrupulously avoid compromising with truth and honesty. We should strive to think pure, wholesome thoughts for, "as he thinketh in his heart, so is he" (Proverbs 23:7). Safety and freedom lie in resisting temptation and avoiding even the appearance of evil and in living and applying those virtues as exemplified in the life of our Savior, Jesus Christ. This excerpt from Alexander Pope's "Essay on Man" beautifully expresses the dangers of associating with sin: Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen; LESSON DEPARTMENT Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace.. If we abide in the liberty of righteous living, though we be shackled in chains, still we will be free. True freedom comes from within, for our spirits are free from the burdens of a guilty conscience. If we know we are in the right, we have the rich fruits of freedom, among which are tranquility and peace of mind. These are among the freedoms which the Savior's life taught and exemplified. He said, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27). WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Attitudes Make the Difference For Second Meeting, January 1966 Objective: To show that a positive attitude on the part of the homemaker is essential to happy family life, and a guide toward achieving ''an intelligent mind and a trained hand." @ The homemaker's life is sometimes a complicated and turbulent one. The age in which we live propels us at such a fast pace that we often feel we are left without order or clearness oF direction. It is then that a look at landmarks will place us back on the road, with our sense of direction and our self-confidence restored. A positive attitude and the conviction that in the home 861 NOVEMBER 1965 lies woman's greatest fulfillment, are guideposts which dispel confusion. A woman's greatest glory is in being a homemaker! This honorable profession is a many-faceted one—exacting, creative, demanding, rewarding—and a privilege and a challenge always. It requires constantly "an intelligent mind and a trained hand." Phyllis McGinley, a popular American writer of light verse and a Pulitzer Prize winner, is proud of being, first of all, a homemaker. In her best-seller,. Sixpence in Her Shoe, she says that the occupation of homemaker is to her of sufficient importance to fill a woman's heart and her life. Our Relief Society leaders have long emphasized that the seemingly ordinary and mundane tasks of homemaking and housekeeping have a "spiritual value which affects the eternal life of families." Each Latter-day Saint home should be the prime training ground for the family. It is there a child receives his spiritual inheritance, his beliefs, his ideas, his standards. If the home is the supreme factor in the development of the family, how are values (to rate in usefulness and excellence) to be determined? How are individual and family goals (aims or objectives) set? How are family standards (established rules of excellence) decided upon? Of first importance is the attitude of the homemaker herself, since attitudes inspire behavior. Do you accept your role as a homemaker as a divine appointment? Does your heart sing with rejoicing? Have you gained a sense of appreciation for your 862 calling? Do you make an earnest effort to be positive in your thinking in the face of discouragement? A wise woman once related this story to a homemaker who was confronted with the possibility of her family's losing their home and who seemed hopelessly lost in the mechanics of housekeeping: There was once a queen, who reigned in troublesome days. When her subjects became uneasy with rumors of war, she would don her loveliest riding habit and take her entire court hunting. When the queen rode by, smiling and waving and apparently so gay and happy, the people relaxed and felt all was well in the kingdom. In this manner she tided over many a danger—and I've tried to be like her. Whenever a crisis comes in my husband's business—and we have had lots of them—or when he's discouraged, or one of the children has a special problem, I put on my prettiest dress and get the best dinner I know how. Somehow, it seems to work. That's the woman's part, you know— to play the queen. Attitude includes a_ blending of the arts and skills of grandmother's generation with those consistent with your situation today. It is a truism that the present and future learn from the past: A mother of four remarked what a delightful time she had spent recently in her kitchen trying to perfect her custard pie (her husband's favorite) technique, using a _ cherished old family recipe and the memory of her grandmother's delicate, spice-flecked masterpiece as her guides. A modern grandmother presented a bride with an exquisite pair of fagoted pillowcases for her trousseau. The fagoting was intricate as a spider web and represented many hours spent by loving 'hands in perpetuating an almost lost art. When we consider that attitudes and the esteem in which we value our position determine our whole course of action in the home, personal outlook becomes very important indeed. In our thinking we need to re-enthrone all that is good, right, and uplifting. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly love, kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence (D&C 4:6). These truths shape our thinking as they have that of the homemakers before us. These are the landmarks which calm the confusion that pressures of our day force upon us, and indicate the way ahead. Techniques and skills may change, some of which will be discussed in subsequent discussions, but those fundamental qualities of mind and heart remain the same. TO DISCUSS 1. Can attitudes be changed? Can you cite examples from the scriptures where changed attitudes have resulted in a change of behavior? 2. What should the homemaker's attitude be toward herself (selfrespect, self-confidence, and the banishment of negative thoughts— the positive approach.) 3. How can you build a better attitude toward some disliked household task such as ironing? (One mother memorizes scripture while ironing.) LESSON DEPARTMENT TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Attitudes' Self-Analysis for Homemakers: 1. Do you consider your responsibility as homemaker the most important one you'll ever have? 2. Do you see a purpose for your daily tasks? 3. Do you realize that through study and effort you can be your own efficiency expert? 4. Do you enjoy creating beauty in your home at*a minimum of cost? 5. Do you think it' important that you andyour husband take the initiative in establishing. Family values? Do you also feel that it is important to guide the setting of individual and family goals and to work toward achieving them? 6. Do you realize thathappy family relationships form the basis for home management? 7. Do you recognize that your work schedule can be a flexible one? 8. Do you pray to your Heavenly Father for guidance in temporal matters as well as those of an eternal nature? Attitudes play a very important part in the correcting of children. A negative approach usually meets with resistance. When a child misbehaves, refrain from saying, "Gary, be quiet. You're driving me insane." One homemaker says she has a rule of three: (1) she tries to remain calm; (2) she tries to treat cause rather than symptom; and (3) she tries to substitute an interesting activity for the annoyance. She might say, "Gary, come here for a minute—" (and then when he is quiet and listening); "you haven't played with your picture puzzles you bought last summer while we were on vacation for a long time. Don't you think you might enjoy them?" For the next week or so try to use a positive approach when a child must be corrected or in times of disputation and note the results. Leave Taking Eva Willies Wangsgaard Like old men wise in living, The leaves rock to and fro, They know the joy of giving, The art of letting go. 863 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Winnifred C. Jardine The "Picking-Up" Technique For Second Meeting, February 1966 Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family. @ "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion" (D&C 132:8). Therein lies a pattern for Latter-day Saint homes, for happiness does dwell where order reigns and first things are first. Of all the schemes and plans used by homemakers to keep a house in order, none exceeds in importance the habit of "picking up." Talk to any efficient homemaker who seems to have time to spare at the end of the day, and, almost without exception, you will find that either at the beginning of the day or else the last thing at night, she will spend time picking up, just picking: up and putting away. Nothing is more discouraging or depressing to a homemaker or to her family than "clutter." It is exhausting to look at. It is defeating to contemplate. And nothing else one might do seems to be of consequence while the disorder remains. Learning to put things away may be difficult for some who are deep in the habit of not doing so. But it is worth the time and effort it requires to learn. For some it may take several weeks of con- 864 certed effort and concentration, but the results are magic. If children have been taught to put away toys and hang up their clothing, mother's work will be easier. First thing in the morning, after you are dressed for the day's work, and the family has left, give yourself thirty minutes for "picking up." Set the alarm clock, if you like, and race against it. Start in the kitchen and pick up the dishes and stack them by the sink (no other work now; just picking up), put chairs, table linens, food away, put away bills tucked under the radio, clean off the clutter on the window sill above the sink. When you are through in the kitchen, take a quick look and see how tidy it is—even though dishes remain to be done and floor to be swept or wiped up. Now, move on to the living room. Put away toys, shoes, dishes, books, pencils, anything that is out of place. Be sure to put the things in their right place. Do not move them from one room to another nor tuck them away in some other spot for further consideration later. Make a decision right now. If some articles belong upstairs, place them together and save your energy by taking them up in one trip. Discard old newspapers. Now to the bathroom, then the bedrooms, then to other rooms. Perhaps the clock has buzzed, and you have had to give yourself another fifteen minutes, or half hour, or even an hour. It doesn't matter. Stay with it until the job of picking up is completed. Once you have finished picking up, then go back and do the dishes, wipe floors, dust, vacuum, or whatever your schedule requires. But now that work will fly along. Another important pick-up time is an hour or so before dinner, just a while before father comes home. Make it a rule every day that all the things that are out of place in the house or yard be gathered up and returned to their place. Once the house is orderly, it is surprising how quickly the care of the house will take on order, too. Having everything in its place will save hours of "looking for something"; it will help each member of the family to be much more independent, because he will not have to ask mother where everything is; it will eliminate the source of a great deal of frustration to mother, especially, who always seems at her worst when the house is untidy. Finally, it will inspire orderliness in other things. With this background, it is much easier to teach children to assume their share of responsibility. Specific assignments should be made during family LESSON DEPARTMENT council, making sure each family member understands _ exactly what is expected of him and that he knows how to do it; then he must be held accountable for finishing that job according to the standards previously set. By being thus taught in a home that reflects order, the children will learn quickly to take pride in the responsibility they are assuming, and thus will be well prepared for missions, for marriage, and for life. "T know of no place other than home," wrote President David O. McKay, ''where true happiness can be found in this life." And the Savior gave us the key to it when he said, ''Mine house is a house of order'? (D&C 132:8). TO DISCUSS 1. At what age should a child be taught to pick up his toys? 2. What are some means of getting children to assist with the "pickup" technique and also to assume the responsibility of putting away their own belongings? 3. What do you do to motivate teenagers to keep their rooms neat? TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. Failure of small children to "pick up" toys is often traced to lack of storage space and to lack of follow through on the part of the homemaker. Survey facilities in your home for the storage of children's toys. Are they located and arranged conveniently for children? If not, study and plan how you can improve and extend storage for these items. 2. A visit to a school kindergarten or a nursery may prove profitable relative to young children and the availability of items which they use each day. Make notes on the methods and means used to place objects at a level for the child to help himself. Decide on the ideas which are feasible for your own home. 865 SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2 (No. 14 in series)—Our Priesthood Heritage (Taken and adapted from lessons 2-3-4 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum Lessons—1966) For Third Meeting, February 1966 Objective: For Relief Society members to understand the significance of Priesthood holders in history, with special keys and callings, and its special meaning for women. INTRODUCTION What is the Priesthood? "It is the rule and government of God, whether on earth, or in the heaven; and it is the only legitimate power, the only authority that is acknowledged by Him to rule and regulate the affairs of His kingdom" (Journal of Discourses, I:224). "It is nothing more nor less than the power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately; not assuming that authority, not borrowing it from generations that are dead and gone, but authority that has been given in this day in which we live by ministering angels and_ spirits from above, direct from the presence of Almighty God" (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine (Fifth Edition), Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1939, pp. 139-140). 866 THE GOSPEL IS ETERNAL The gospel is eternal, or is from eternity to eternity, and we should never lose sight of the fact that the period of time in which we live does not exist in isolation, but is an integral part of eternity. The gospel has a comprehensive past as well as an all-encompassing future. We are a part of something great and marvelous. This world was organized by the power of God for the sake of his spirit children. Even from the creation, Adam held the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood. ADAM FIRST TO RECEIVE THE PRIESTHOOD The Prophet Joseph Smith declared: "The Priesthood was first given to Adam; he obtained the First Presidency, and held the keys of it from generation to generation. He obtained it in the Creation, before the world was formed, as in Genesis 1:26, 27, 28. He had dominion given him over every living creature. He is Michael the Archangel, spoken of in the Scriptures. Then to Noah, who is Gabriel; he stands next in authority to Adam in the Priesthood; he was called of God to this office, and was the father of all living in this day, and to him was given the dominion. These men held keys first on earth, and then in _ heaven" (JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, Compiler; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith (Second Edition), Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1940, page 157). Throughout the ages God has given mortals the opportunity to participate in and enjoy his divine influence. He has raised up many to be blessed with special keys and callings in the Holy Priesthood. OTHERS WHO HELD KEYS Adam, or Michael, held the keys of the Priesthood from generation to generation. Noah, or Gabriel, also held the keys of the Priesthood. To Elijah he "committed the keys of the power of turning the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers, that the whole earth may not be smitten with a curse" (D&C 27:9). To Peter, James, and John he committed the keys of the ministry during the dispensation in which they were mortals. (D&C 27:12. See also John 15:16.) To Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery he, the Lord, also said: Unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one all LESSON DEPARTMENT things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth (D&C 27:18). COVENANTS WITH JEHOVAH In addition to these and others who have held special keys, there have been some who have had special callings. Certainly Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob with their remarkable covenants with Jehovah are appropriate examples. Perhaps the plainest statement of the covenant is that recorded in the book of Abraham. It reads: My name is Jehovah, and I know the end from the beginning; therefore my hand shall be over thee. And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations; And I will bless them through thy name; for as many as receive this Gospel shall be called after thy name, and shall be accounted thy seed, and shall rise up and bless thee, as their father; And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee; and in thee (that is, in thy Priesthood) and in thy seed (that is, thy Priesthood), for I give unto thee a promise that this right shall continue in thee, and in thy seed after thee (that is to say, the literal seed, or the seed of the body) shall all the families of the earth be blessed, even with the blessings of the Gospel, which are the blessings of salvation, even of life eternal (Abraham 2:8-11). From the creation, through past generations, unto our own day, the Lord has provided and preserved the keys of the Holy Priesthood that his children might enjoy the rights, privileges, and blessings associated therewith. Likewise, through special 867 NOVEMBER 1965 callings and covenants, such as those with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Lord has made provision for the continued guidance and blessing of his spirit children. It is through these keys, covenants, powers, and blessings that the gospel is made available to us. [Activity: Have the class members identify the role in the Priesthood heritage of: Adam, Noah, Elijah, Abraham, Jacob, John the Baptist, Peter, James, and John. | THE LORD TAKES THE HIGHER PRIESTHOOD FROM ISRAEL From the days of Adam through the ministry of Moses, there was a continuous lineage of those who held the Melchizedek Priesthood. (D&C 84:6-16.) In the dispensation of Moses "the Lord confirmed a priesthood also upon Aaron and _ his seed, throughout all their generations, which priesthood also continueth and abideth forever with the priesthood which is after the holiest order of God" (D&C 84: 18). The Lord has revealed in our day that Moses taught the children of Israel plainly and diligently that which it was necessary for them to know and do that they might be sanctified and behold the face of God. But they hardened their hearts and could not endure his presence; therefore, the Lord in his wrath, for his anger was kindled against them, swore that they should not enter into his rest while in the wilderness, which rest is the fulness of his glory. Therefore, he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of 868 the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments, which the Lord in his wrath caused to continue with the house of Aaron among the children of Israel until John... (D&C 84: 24-27). Once when the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked if the Melchizedek Priesthood was taken away with Moses, he responded by saying: All Priesthood is Melchizedek, but there are different portions or degrees of it. That portion which brought Moses to speak with God face to face was taken away; but that. Which brought the ministry of angels remained. All the prophets had the Melchizedek Priesthood and were ordained by God himself (JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1938, pp. 180-181). Thus we see that because of the perversity of Israel, the Melchizedek Priesthood (or the higher portion of it), which had continued among men _ from Adam until the dispensation of Moses, was taken from Israel with Moses. After that time, although prophets were raised up from time to time who were given the Melchizedek Priesthood, as were Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Elijah, generally the people of Israel were without the Melchizedek Priesthood and were under the jurisdiction of the Aaronic Priesthood. That is, that portion of the Priesthood which remained was Aaronic. Aaron had been given the keys of that lesser Priesthood, and his sons were called to minister with him in the priest's office. After the Lord chose Aaron and his sons to minister to him as priests, he relieved the firstborn males of the various tribes of Israel of their Priesthood duties and replaced them with the males of the tribe of Levi. This the new organization consisted of Moses, who held the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood; Aaron, who held the keys of the lesser Priesthood, and Aaron's sons who were priests with him; and the Levites who were priests of a lower order. As long as Aaron presided in the lesser Priesthood, he functioned under the direction of Moses, who held the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood. But when Eleazar, Aaron's oldest living son, received the keys of the lesser Priesthood, and Moses was taken out of Israel, he (Eleazar) became God's mouthpiece to Israel. The priests of Aaron and the Levites ministered in their respective callings without serious conflict until the death of Solomon. But with the division of Israel into the Northern Kingdom (or Israel) and the Southern Kingdom (or Judah), and with King Jereboam's establishing an idolatrous worship and making "priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi," a critical situation arose. (See I Kings 12:31.) The authorized priests, no longer being permitted to function in the Northern Kingdom, made their way back into the kingdom of Judah, and with that exodus '"'the history of the Lesser Priesthood in the kingdom of Israel was ended. Never again, so far as we know, did the tribe of Levi function as a group LESSON DEPARTMENT in the Aaronic Priesthood among the ten tribes" (PAaLMer, LEE A., Aaronic Priesthood Through the Centuries, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1964, page 106). PRIESTHOOD REMAINS WITH JUDAH In time the ten tribes were taken into captivity and eventually lost. But the Priesthood remained in force in the kingdom of Judah. However, through many difficulties, there was a legitimate succession in the Priesthood. JOHN THE BAPTIST AND THE PRIESTHOOD After Onias III (175 Bs. C.), there were legitimate priests who continued to function, but the office of high priest was sold and bought and otherwise polluted. It was not until the Lord raised up John the Baptist that there was another rightful presiding priest in the Aaronic order in Israel. John's birth was an event of signal importance and it, like that of the Lord, was announced by angelic visitation. His father was Zacharias, a faithful priest of Aaron, for only they were permitted to burn incense at the altar (JOSEPHUS, FLAvIuS: Antiquities of the Jews; Book IX, Ch. 10:4), and his mother was Elizabeth, one "of the daughters of Aaron" (Luke 1:5). The Lord, in our own day, speaking of John, has said, he was "filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb." For he was baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of 869 NOVEMBER 1965 the Jews, and to make straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, in whose hand is given all power (D&C 84:28). It is significant to recall that when John was born, the keys of the Melchizedek Priesthood were not among the Jews, and that also the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood had been forfeited. John's role as the priest who held the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood was different from that of his predecessors in that office. For 1,500 years they had ministered at the altar in the sanctuary with burnt offerings and sacrifices. John was concerned with heralding the coming of the Lord, calling all men to repentance and performing the initiatory ordinances of the gospel, and preparing men to receive the power of the Holy Ghost from him who was mightier than he. DISCIPLES HELD PRIESTHOOD Prior to the time the Lord gave his Sermon on the Mount, and several months prior to their ordination as apostles, some of his disciples had been ordained priests or to some office in the Melchizedek Priesthood, for they were authorized to perform baptisms. (See J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., Our Lord of the Gospels, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1957, pp. 43, 51; and J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, Salt Lake City, Deseret - Book Company, 1950, page 358.) Later, twelve of the disciples were chosen' and_ ordained apostles. In a meeting with the Twelve at Caesarea Philippi, the Lord promised the keys of the 870 kingdom of heaven would be given. A week later, when he took Peter, James, and John with him up onto a high mountain, he was transfigured before them, and Moses and Elijah (Elias in the New Testament record) appeared unto them. The Prophet Joseph Smith declares that it was on that occasion that the Lord, Moses, and Elijah bestowed the keys of the Priesthood upon Peter, James, and John. (See Matthew 16:13-20; 17:1-13.) THE PRIESTHOOD IS RESTORED Latter-day Saints generally are familiar with the circumstances surrounding the restoration of the Priesthood. They know that in the spring of 1820, God the Eternal Father and Jesus Christ the Son of God—the Redeemer of man—appeared to Joseph Smith, Jr., in the woods near Palmyra, New York. They gave him initial instructions in preparation for his modern prophetic calling. In September of 1823, and periodically at least through June of 1829, Moroni, a resurrected being, visited Joseph Smith. Even as John the Baptist received the word of God in the wilderness under angelic guidance, so was Joseph Smith taught by heavenly teachers. JOHN THE BAPTIST COMES When 'the period of _ initial preparation was completed, and the Lord was ready for his youthful prophet to act with authority in the name of the Lord, he sent John the Baptist to him with the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood. It was on May 15, 1829, that John came. John the Baptist indicated "that he acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who held the keys of the Priesthood of Melchizedek" (Joseph Smith 2:72). Thus, John, who was especially raised up by God to hold the keys of the Aaronic Priesthood to prepare the way for Christ, restored the Aaronic Priesthood. THE HIGHER PRIESTHOOD RESTORED Shortly after the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood, Joseph and Oliver received the Melchizedek Priesthood from Peter, James, and John. On April 3, 1836, four great visions were given to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple. First the Lord Jesus Christ appeared and accepted the temple as his house. Then the prophets Moses, Elias, and Elijah appeared and committed the keys they held on earth. Of the mission of Elijah, President Joseph Fielding Smith has written: Some members of the Church have been confused in thinking that Elijah came with the keys of baptism for the dead or of salvation for the dead. Elijah's keys were greater than that. They were the keys of sealing, and those keys of sealing pertain to the living and embrace the dead who are willing to repent (Bruce R. McCONKIE, Compiler, Doctrines of Salvation: Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith, Salt Lake City, Bookcraft, 1956, Vol. III, page 130). In an epistle written by the Prophet Joseph Smith, he names many of those from the ancient world who visited him on var: ous occasions and then records: LESSON DEPARTMENT And the voice of Michael, the archangel; the voice of Gabriel, and of Raphael, and of divers angels, from Michael or Adam down to the present time, all declaring their dispensations, their rights, their keys, their honors, their majesty and glory, and the power of their priesthood; giving line upon line, precept upon precept; here a little, and there a little, giving us consolation by holding forth that which is to come, confirming our hope! (D&C 128:21). (See also D&C 132: 45-47.) Thus all of the keys of the Holy Priesthood from previous dispensations were restored to the earth at the beginning of this, the last dispensation of the Gospel. CONCLUSION One may not hold any keys of the Priesthood, but he or she should have full appreciation of the fact that had the Lord not preserved those keys through the dispensations and restored the Priesthood and its keys in our time, he or she, could not share in the rights, privileges, and blessings that he or she does. (We should ever be mindful that the women and children of the Church share fully in the blessings of the Priesthood.) Let the class discuss what specific blessings women and children receive through the Priesthood. FOR HOME DOING Re-read this lesson or, if available, read lessons 1, 2, 3, and 4 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual for 1966, in order to appreciate more fully our Priesthood heritage. 871 LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 13: The Place of Suffering in Life, Part 1. (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 363-71, 380-85, and 397-404.) For Fourth Meeting, February 1966. Objective: To examine the nature of grief and man's resources m At first glance the men who came to comfort Job, in the wellknown Old Testament account, seem only to have increased his grief. In the series of exchanges in which they discuss the nature of suffering, both Job and his friends become angry and upset with one another. They find it difficult to agree upon the reasons for the suffermg which appears to come inevitably upon man. "Yet man is born unto trouble as the sparks fly upward" (Job 5: 7). It is worth noting, however, that Job is only prepared to hear and appreciate the final, resolving words of the Lord after he and his companions have demonstrated the inadequacy of the usual explanations for suffering. Our discussions with others in time of sorrow may be equally frustrating; but, like Job, we need to talk—if only to overcome the isolation which grief usually imposes. Proverbially we are told that "misery loves company," but the company that misery would 872 in time of suffering. Keep is not the fellowship of tears. In time of grief we do not yearn to hear the misfortunes of others; we need an audience for our own sorrow! For when grief can be spoken, the first step toward controlling it has been achieved. THE LAMENT In the three selections which we will consider this month, the first two present situations focused in personal loss. In "The Lament," by Anton Chekhov, for instance, note how the setting helps to set the mood of the story. It is twilight. A thick wet snow is slowly twirling around the newly lighted street lamps, and lying in soft thin layers on roofs, on horses' backs, on people's shoulders and hats. The cab driver Iona Potapov is quite white, and looks like a phantom; he is bent double as far as a human body can bend double; he is seated on his box; he never makes a move. If a whole snowdrift fell on him, it seems as if he would not find it necessary to shake it off. His little horse is also quite white, and remains motionless; its immobility, its angularity, and its straight wooden-looking legs, even close by, give it the appearance of a gingerbread horse worth a kopek. It is, no doubt, plunged in deep thought... (Text, page 365). The cab driver, Iona Potapov, makes no move to shake the weight of the snow from his shoulders until he is aroused by others. The encompassing nature of his grief and his seeming inability to wake himself from the stupor of his loss are thus early suggested. When Iona is aroused, however, it is only to include his fare in the sorrow which fills his world. It would be hard to present the relativity of suffering more clearly. No attempt is made to show that the cabdriver is unusually sensitive. In fact his reaction to the treatment he receives at the hands of those who employ him suggests just the opposite. By Chekhov's own description, Iona is an "insignificant shell," yet all the world he can conceive of is disordered by the death of his son. He finds it hard to understand that the worlds of the officer and the "gay young gentlemen" who hire his cab are not similarly out of balance. Despite rude rebuffs he cannot believe that there is not at least one person who needs to listen to what he needs to tell. The only way the father can reorder his world is to fit each detail of his son's sickness and death into the human picture that is somehow larger than the numbing isolation of his own loss. Particularly effective in this story is the picture we get of the devices people use to insulate themselves from their fellow men. The officer is not totally unmoved by mention of the son's death, LESSON DEPARTMENT but he is more interested in efficiency than in sympathy. He is briskly up and doing, concerned with getting to his destination as directly as possible. He discourages conversation by closing his eyes, thus effectively shutting off contact with a world which might not reduce easily to the giving and receiving of orders. The trio of young men who next engage the cab are also ina hurry, but theirs is not the urging of efficiency. In them we can see the impatience of shallow minds whose attention span is childishly short. Yet their very exuberance momentarily engulfs Iona. Their insults at least include him, and the blows they rain upon his back are easier to bear than the deliberate detachment of the officer. No one of the youths, however, is really capable of listening to anyone except himself. They exist in the deceptive isolation of the convivial group which never becomes more than a mechanical assembling of self-centered individuals. The old cabdriver is at last driven to telling his story in the detail it demands to his horse. As pitiful as this seems, at first glance, it is not an "unhappy" ending. In speaking aloud his grief for the dead, Iona begins to make his peace with life. WAR The second selection, Luigi Pirandello's "War" makes up in intensity what it seems to lack in complexity. No attempt is made to give us background beyond that necessary for setting up the dramatic effect of the question which is at the heart of the story, "Then... Is your son really dead?" This little tale is an excel- 873 NOVEMBER 1965 lent example of the impact which a good short story can have. There is nothing extraneous here to sidetrack us. The key idea behind this account is not a subtle one which must be developed slowly in order that we understand all its ramifications. Like the fat man in the story we are forced to see that the most carefully wrought argument is no match for the simplest manifestation of emotional reality. How the mother's question cuts through the fine phrases and the empty sentiments of the old man's speech! The author is not suggesting that patriotism is impossible; he isn't even suggesting that it is undesirable. What he is insisting is that so basic a feeling as the loss of a son is not countered by rhetoric. The father of the dead boy has almost convinced himself intellectually that his son's death was inevitable— even beautiful. The mother's artless question lets us see what a house of cards such an attempt is. Unless we have some profound emotional resources to draw upon in time of grief, we may delay our surrender, but we still finally succumb. COMPENSATION The third selection for this month, "Compensation" by Ralph Waldo Emerson, tries to help us draw upon strengths which we may all have. If, however, our standards of success and happiness are rooted superficially, we may well spend our lives in misery and mourning. Emerson insists, however, that if we view life from a higher—and more discriminating level, we cannot fail to see that all success, apparent or real, 874 costs just what we are willing to pay, and that failure is not without its compensations. An interesting point here is that such equalization need not be deferred to an after life. We cannot escape being affected by what happens to us, but we need to be careful that we do not gauge its effect too soon. There are two ideas in this selection which are particularly significant. The first is stated (page 399) in the sentence "All things are moral." If Emerson's point is true, every choice we make is a moral choice. Since our ability to develop spiritually hinges clearly on our moral sensitivity, we need to accept this fact—so easily forgotten or neglected—that ail choices count. There are no insignificant decisions if each one has eternal consequences. Emerson would suggest that our failure to see the far-ranging results of our choices only demonstrates our insensitivity, or our reluctance to face the truth. The second idea is the concept that goodness need not be purchased by evil. As Emerson puts it, ''there is no penalty to virtue." Goodness may take effort, and in this sense "cost,"' but life is no mere balance.... There is no penalty to virtue; no penalty to wisdom; they are proper additions of being. In a virtuous action I properly am; in a virtuous act I add to the world.... There can be no excess to love, none to knowledge, none to beauty, when these attributes are considered in the purest sense. The soul refuses limits, and always affirms an Optimism, never a Pessimism.... The compensations of calamity are made apparent to the understanding also, after long intervals of time.... The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide... For it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life.... (text, page 403). The scriptural injunction that "all things work together for good to them that love God" really sums up the point of this essay. The grief and despair of Chekhov's "Lament" and Pirandello's "War" may be a destroying flame or a refining fire. As Emerson so eloquently says, "What will you LESSON DEPARTMENT have? Quoth God; pay for it and take it." QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In what sense is it possible to share another's grief? Can we comfort someone if we don't share his sorrow? 2. Discuss Emerson's assertion that "all infractions of love" are speedily punished by fear. What meaning might this have in determining relationships within the family? Truth Is Many-Faceted Vilate R. McAllister Truth is many-faceted, A gem of wondrous worth. Though men have prayed and searched for it Unto the ends of earth, Truth is not hid, but on a hill Where anyone can see: Continual flashes scintillate, Enlightening you and me. No human eye may see the whole, But each must be content With one small portion, with the gleam In his direction sent. One ray of color reaches me, Another reaches you, And so we must dispute awhile Which color is the true. Although new facets may be seen In changing light and shade, And viewpoints may be altered When journeyings are made, Our vision still is limited To facets of this gem. Only God can fully see The perfect diadem. Diminuendo Linda Clarke November is a sadness. Her crushed léaves can only whisper. Her labors are basketed away And her rewards are carried In December's arms. 875 November Celestia J. Taylor November—and the day draws quickly to its close. The sun, whose warming rays through summer months we eagerly absorb From early dawn until the last faint evening glows, Now passes ail too quickly before earth's turning orb. The wind is chill; its blasts have long since blown the leaves from shrub and tree. All out-of-doors is clothed in sombre hue in readiness for winter soon to be. The fruits are picked; the golden grain is cut and stored away. Within our homes the hearth is lit—a welcome sight when comes the close of day. Reluctantly we bid the summer months goodbye, and almost dread what winter soon may bring; But, hope eternal in our hearts, cold winter soon will pass and come the welcome spring. ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 OAKLAND AND LOS ANGELES Nov. 1] Will be time for those who wish to go to temple Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 LDS MESSAGES IN SONG By Ora Pate Stewart "To a Child''—solo...0...2... Ccecceeee.50 (Suitable for so many occasions) Words and music by O. P. S. "Song of Love''—solo...........:. C.2000.50 "Song of Love' —dvet..............----.50 (Lovely for weddings, anniversaries) Words by Nephi J. Bott "Crossing the Bar''—trio.............. 50 (Words by Tennyson) "Claim Thou My Heart''—trio.......50 (Words and music by O. P. S.) NEW BOOKS, IDEAL FOR FAMILY HOUR TENDER APPLES...000..0.....-secssseeosees$3.95 (Biography of Ettie Lee, Illus.) WEST WIND SONG.......0WW....$4.00 (Poetry, delightfully illustrated) BUTTERMILK AND BRAN..............$4.00 (Short stories) Autographed—Mailed anywhere ORA PATE STEWART 11282 Anabel Ave. Garden Grove, Calif. 92640 876 Your kitchen stays cleaner when you COOK ELECTRIC If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY BEAUTIFUL HANDY. DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 3.........60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4 65 Zone 8..........1.20 Zone 5..... (= = DESERET. FREws PRESS HAWAIIAN TOURS November 1965 February 1966 > ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 ——— Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Thank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAFPFTS: Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, ete. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 877 Zone 1 and 2......55 Plastic Grapes and other Zone 6.......... 90; NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY... Even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At last—a new kind of hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and smoking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk' drinkers and smokers are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day vou enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. You do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums fer those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten life. They're now one of America's leading health problems — a prime cause of the high premium rates most hospitalization policies charge. Our rates are based on your superior health, as a non-drinker and non-smoker. The new American Temperance Hospitalization Plan can offer you unbelievably low rates because we do not accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Also, your premiums can never be_ raised because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite close comparison with any other plan. Actually, no other is like ours. But compare rates. See what you save. MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully. Ask your minister, lawyer and doctor to examine it. Be sure tt provides exactly what we say tt does. Then; if for any reason atall you are not 100%; satisfied, just mai your policy back to us within 30 days and we wil immediately refund your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars... Vou risk nothing. READ YOUR AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, from the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any hospital in the world. We pay in addition to any other insurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. 2. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, except pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization caused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything else you're fully protected—at amazingly low rates' 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident (as described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for accidental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one foot, or sight of one eve. Or $6000 cash for loss of both eves, both hands, or both feet. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pav Monthly Pay Yearly coe 0 $38 rh $590 $59 a ae $ 'sit $79 Each child 18 eetchida ts $780 $28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE fe ee ce ree re ee ee ee ae ce ee wee ce ee es we ee we we we ee we we oe R. S. 3396 r APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS | FoR AT-100 AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT). Street of RO Z. City | County State Zip | Age Date of Birth Month Oay Year Occupation Height Weight Beneficiary Relationship | also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below NAME AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY BIRTH DATE Al Nlol]s To the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and ai! Members listed above in good heaith and free from any physical impairment, or disease? Yes] No[) To the best of your knowledge, have you of any member above listed had medical advice or treatment, of have you of they been advised to have a surgical operation in the last five years? Yes (] No) /f so, please give detarls stating person affected, cause, date, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered Neither | nor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and | hereby feliance upon the written answers to the above questions Date: Signed X | 1 Mail this apptication wth AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., your tat premium to BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS | t apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions Ofiginating prior to its effective date, and that the policy is issued solely and entirely in 106 Mrs. Hilda Erickson 9? Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Grantsville, Utah Willard, Utah Mrs. Wilhelmina Hinton St. George, Utah 99 Mrs. Johanne Mariah Hegsted Rawson — Whittier, California Mrs. Samantha Mangum Baker Thurber, Utah Mrs. Rebecca W. Wilson. 97 Richfield, Utah 9] Mrs. Charlotte Ann Esplin Olympia, Washington Mrs. Dianthy Petersen Anderson gc Mrs. Martha Lawholf Orem, Utah Vernon, Arizona Mrs. Ada Carter Sutton Salt Lake City, Utah shton, Idaho Sait Lake City, Utah Mrs. Pipe Elma Wilson Haynie Mrs. Martha Stoker Mesa, Arizona Afton, Wyoming on "re Heppler Mrs. Sarah Passey ichfield, Uta Thayne, Wyoming chee Young Mrs. Edith McLelland Gamble ichfield, Uta Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Maria Greer Parkinson Darley 93 Mrs. Eliza Jane Rideout Dyson Corning, California Hooper, Utah Mrs. Nettie Hunt Rencher 9 Mrs. Cecile Morrill Druce Snowflake, Arizona 0 Sa Lake City, Utah Mrs. Caroline Peterson Larsen Mrs. Ann Rees Davis Sandy, Utah Wales, Utah Fullerton, California Manti, Utah Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Mrs. Agnes Cook Coles Elsinore, Utah Provo, Utah Mrs. Ida Newman Anderson Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah Ogden, Utah Mrs. Bertha Neuenschwander White Mrs. Annie Appleyard Rothe Salt Lake City, Utah Lehi, Utah 94 wis. Hannah Christine Nielsen Osborne Mrs. Lavinia Mae Winter Wood Mrs. Charlotte Greenwood Hansen Mrs. Christina Petrea Peterson Kiesel I Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA NS SF ae _ NEW BOOKS FROM FAVORITE AUTHORS! 1. OUR MORAL CHALLENGE by Mark E. Petersen Here is a straight forward analysis of what immorality really consists of and how and why we must avoid it. In these days of increasing laxity, Elder Petersen goes right to the heart of the matter without mincing words. Elder Petersen, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve for over twenty years, has provided a lifetime of service to youth and is probably the most qualified to pen such a book. $2 95 2. TENDER APPLES by Ora Pate Stewart This author is a Relief Society favorite! Her newest work, Tender Apples, will entangle the reader in the heart strings of youth. Tender Apples is the faithpromoting story of Ettie Lee a remarkable and loving personality. $3.95 3. THIS AGE OF CONFUSION by Alvin R. Dyer This is a detailed expose of the religious confusion of the day. Elder Dyer, Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve, chooses some fundamental points of doctrine and reveals their origin and present day interpretation. Concepts of the great religions of the world such as "Man's Relationship to Deity" and "The Nature of God" are among the many fascinating points explored $3.50 Coe eeenesereereseeeeesnesreaeseesetere eevee eeeseoseeeeeseeeeen: Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City R. S. Nov "65 Gentlemen: enclosed please find check... Money order...... I have an account, please charge...... Amount$...... Including sales tax, for books circled I 2 3 Residents of Utah, please add 32% sales tax Residents of Catifornia, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah You get him FREE with this U and | Sugar Premium Value Jumbo (12x15 4") extra heavy Wearever (aluminum by Alcoa) COOKIE SHEET with FREE U and I Sugar Gingerbread All this for only $1.00 and a U and I Sugar label '"@@eecese \Peeov05e Uand! Sugar Cookie Sheet Offer P. O. Box "A". Seattle, Washington 98109 Check choice: 1 1 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheet and Gingerbread Boy Pattern. $1.00 and U & I label C) 2Jumbo 12 x 15'2" Wear-ever cookie sheets and Gingerbread Boy pattern, plus free nylon spatula (will not Scratch aluminum). $2.00 and U & I label Name ~—~—-—___.__ Please Print Street or RFD LL —x<«———-— i City. —.__.____ State_ ————— Zip Code hibited). Please allow three to four weeks for delivery. 1966. PLEASE SEND THIS FORM WITH YOUR ORDER. Mie es = ee O — ee Mabel Jones Gabbott Of Time Into the midst of time, between the old Law and the new, he came as was foretold. Yet, all of time is his; his are the sun And starshine. All the measured hours that run Between are in his time... And so are we, And they who were the very first to see A sunset on the earth, or hear the birds Carol his praises; they who heard his words, And all who follow after to time's rim Before and since the blessed Christmas morn Are rich with time and life because of him. For unto all mankind, the Son was born. Of Place That was an ancient year, a distant land When Magi, richly dressed with gifts in hand, Had traced the starlight unto Bethlehem, Had seen the Holy Child, and worshipped him, Yet all of earth is his, the restless dune, The steadfast mountains, and the sea and moon, The crowded city, trimmed and tinseled bright, The country roadway drenched in lunar light. Though stars are quiet now above the place Where Christ was born, his light will always fill With penetrating rays the ends of space, As surely as it crowned Judea's hill. The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: Madonna and Child, From a Painting by Crivelli. Courtesy The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Jules S. Bache Collection, 1949 Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press ) Palms in Winter, Photo by Don Knight Dick Scopes Mary Scopes roe Relief Society viecon — Volume 52 December 1965 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 884 The Exalted Sphere of Woman Hugh B. Brown 894 The 1965 Relief Society Annual General Conference Hulda P. Young 908 Christmas Seals Mean "For Real" Appointments to the General Board 892 Lucile P. Peterson Julia Rae P. Keith 893 Elaine B. Curtis Fiction 896 The Perfect Christmas Betty Lou Martin Smith 900 Mother's Christmas Tree Brownie Bernice Brown 902 The Tinsel and the Ornaments Christie Lund Coles 932 Ring Around Her Heart Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Shirley Thulin General Features 882 From Near and Far 905 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 906 Editorial: The 135th Semi-Annual Church Conference 960 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 909 How Many Days Till Christmas? Janet W. Breeze 910 Lauretta Craner Makes Quality Quilts 911 Festive "Sand Bakels" for the Holidays Hjordis Skollingsberg 914 I Ama Fish Pond Verda F. Burton 915 Roses Bloom Upon a Winter Tree 916 Red Ribbon Tree 917 Candle Bowls Make Decorative Gifts 917 Quilts Make Lovely Gifts 918 Christmas Decorations — Simply Beautiful 920 Home — The Place of Christmas 924 A Toy Tub for the Children Peggy Ann Horton 925 A Colorful Circus Tent Mormon Handicraft Shop 926 A Clever Disguise for a Basketball Hoop Jrene Lloyd 927 Red and Green for the Holiday Table 928 "Inner-Glow" Glass and Resin Lamps Joy N. Hulme 956 Under the Surface Ruth House Lessons for March 937 Theology — An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom Roy W. Doxey 942 Visiting Teacher Message — "Cease to Find Fault One With Another" Christine H. Robinson 944 Work Meeting — Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness Hazel S. Cannon 946 Social Science — Personal Standards Alberta H. Christensen 951 Literature — The Place of Suffering in Life — Part II Bruce B. Clark Poetry 881 For All Mankind Mabel Jones Gabbott On a Snowy Evening, by Linda Clarke, 890; Winter Respite, by Kathryn Kay, 891; At Christmas Time, by Pauline M. Bell, 899; The Remembered, by Lael W. Hill, 901; I Love Life, by Zara Sabin, 908; Where? By Ruth G. Rothe, 911; To Make a Christmas, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 912; Abstractionist, by Ethel Jacobson, 936; For Nancy After a Day Together, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 950; Wish on the Moon, by Bernice Ames, 958. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3,'1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Exalted sphere of Woman President Hugh B. Brown Of The First Presidency wl am sure that you, being women, cannot appreciate what a mere man feels like, standing in your presence, nor can you appreciate what it means to try to follow so many excellent addresses as we have listened to today. All we can do is pray for guidance and for your sympathetic understanding. This morning at nine o'clock all of the General Authorities of the Church assembled in the Salt Lake Temple, preparatory to the coming conference. Talks were given, testimonies were borne, and a very fervent prayer was offered at the altar, where we prayed for the Relief Societies of the Church and for the success of this great conference. President McKay asked me to bring to you his love and blessing, and I asked if he had a special message. He said, "Just tell them that there is not another woman's organization in the world in any way comparable to the Relief Society," in which I heartily concur. You will be glad to know that President McKay is better, 884 (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965) that he has been in meeting from nine o'clock until I left to come here at two o'clock, and they were still in meeting, and he was participating actively. We just hope he does not overdo before the conference. It is always a privilege and an honor to be asked to meet with this wonderful group of Relief Society workers in General Conference. There was a time when women met, despite determined opposition, to carry on their courageous fight for women's rights, sometimes secretly because repressed, and more often militantly and dangerously. But the fight was finally won and we men are proud of the great leadership which you, our fellow workers, have developed. In your courses of study, you have considered and been instructed in many subjects, including the responsibilities which these rights entail. Rights always involve responsibilities. Because of limitations of both time and capacity, I propose to confine my message to a consid- eration of the favored position of woman in the home and in the Church, and her obligations to her husband and children; how she can best magnify her calling and share in the blessings of the Priesthood; how she can improve and glorify not only her own person and status but that of her companion and family and, thereby, effectively serve the Master. Through the institution of marriage, which is ordained of God, men and women become partners in life's most difficult, most glorious and most responsible undertaking, the rearing of children to become valued members of society and workers in his kingdom. The home is the first schoolroom, and its lessons, good or bad, are carried: into later life and are as endurable as life itself. The family concept is one of the major and most important of our whole theological doctrine. Our concept of heaven itself is little more than a projection of the home and family life into eternity. What a tragedy when this divinely appointed institution is wrecked on the dangerous reefs of divorce. Great poems, novels, plays, great books of history and biology attempt to present the psychology and emotional aspects of marriage in the lives of individuals. These, together with voluminous case histories indicate that marriage at all times, in every culture, and in the widest variety of circumstances is one of the supreme tests of human character. Laws and customs represent only the external or social aspect of marriage. No discussion of these externals can give any impression of the inwardness and depth of the problem which marTHE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN riage imposes. In a recent issue of the Reader's Digest I read a pertinent reference to the failure of material things and mass organization to satisfy a prevailing unrest and unhappiness to be found among so many people in our time. The article declared that there is a secret citadel within all men and women of good will and to find it is an individual quest —the most urgent and significant quest of our lives. This secret citadel is our inner spiritual selves; it is the divine within us; in its discovery and promptings lie our only safeguards against discouragement and despair in the battle of life. It is in fact our only reliable security. May I pause to remind you of the last speaker telling us something of what experience means and how to meet problems. May I hold her up to you humbly as a wonderful example of how a woman can stand up against almost insuperable difficulties, heartbreak, bereavement, sorrow, and carry on valiantly. God bless Sister Spafford. The family is the central pillar of the Church, the key to the arch of civilization. But whether pillar or arch, it must be supported and maintained by the character and devotion of the contracting parties who, especially in the Church, covenant with each other and with God to jointly build, maintain, and glorify it by themselves, observing and helping all who become members of it to observe the Godgiven laws by which it is or should be regulated. I was deeply impressed by the discourse on love, and we were told we were to love the Lord with all our minds. This is a 885 DECEMBER 1965 challenge to every man, woman, and every child, for that matter, to prepare our minds for a comprehension of God, and, in that comprehension, to worship him, and this is a natural result of knowing him. So I commend to you the wisdom of preparing your minds, your spirits, for the great responsibility which has been mentioned today regarding the home. And what is the role of wife and mother in this glorious but stupendous undertaking? It is, ~ first of all, to accept with deep gratitude the part which was assigned to her by a loving and all-wise Heavenly Father and then to spend her life trying to magnify her calling in humility and in love. She will solidify the very foundations of the home by inspiring, honoring, and sustaining her husband in righteousness, helping him to magnify his calling, to keep a proper sense of values and, together, achieve salvation, immortality, and eternal life for their celestial family. There was handed to me just recently a tribute from a son to a mother. This could be said of many, if not most, of you, but I would like to bring it to you as a testimony of that son as to what his mother had meant to him and to the rest of the family. Here's to Mother, Grandma, and Great-grandmother: Some are called to serve in front of the group, to be seen and praised (well-deserved praise) of men. Mother belongs to that noble class of great souls who serve mainly behind the scenes without the plaudits of men. Her husband and their children have been the goal in her life. All of the time that Dad has been serving the Church, Mother has been making the great quality of his service possible. WithB86 out her selflessness, her guilelessness, her utter trust and devotion in him and in his work, little of what he has accomplished would have been possible. Here's to you Mother - the true power behind the throne - an helpmeet and an handmaiden - you have seen us all through joy and sorrow. The accomplishments of your husband and your offspring are your accomplishments. You have lived many lives in sweetness and serenity. I thought how that would apply to Sister Fletcher, who spoke to us this afternoon. The scriptures say that the man is not without the woman in the Lord. President Brigham Young said this: "And I would say, aS no man can be perfect without the woman, so no woman can be perfect without a man to lead her. I tell you the truth as it is in the bosom of eternity; and I say so to every man upon the face of the earth; if he wishes to be saved he cannot be saved without a woman by his side." Does this emphasize the importance of your task? In this blessed but difficult task, each wife and mother must daily and hourly seek divine guidance and pursue her tasks with the serenity and tranquility of one who is in contact with omnipotent power. I like the following stanza: I meet God in the morning, When my day is at its best, And His presence comes like sunshine, Like a glor-" in my breast! All day long His presence lingers, All day long He stays with me, And we sail in perfect calmness, O'er a sometimes troubled sea. So I think I know a secret, Learned from traveling down life's way— You must seek God in the morning, If you want him through the day. Women should never allow their role as mother to overshadow their role as wife. They are both obligations divinely imposed and they should be inseparable. Neither husband nor wife can coast in on the attainments of the other; salvation is a joint undertaking, a family affair. The wife becomes an integral part of her husband's ambitions and accomplishments; she is, in fact, his other — often better — half. She must keep pace with him, keep physically fit, intellectually stimulating, and spiritually inspiring, must understand what the Lord expects of him and help him to attain it. This is her privilege, and to some extent, at least, she will share the responsibility if there is failure. Some women have been heard to say that they feel cheated because they do not hold the Priesthood. To this complaint a granddaughter retorted, ""The men hold the Priesthood, but the women hold the men."' And I think she had a point, for you have much to do with the success of your husbands. Yes, you can hold and you can mold them and for this task you have been divinely endowed. The apostle Paul said, in I Corinthians,.. Man... Is the image and glory of 'Ged: but the woman is the glory of the man. (I Corinthians 11:7). I hope you will remember that and let us lean on you a little more. We are great leaners. What great satisfaction comes into the soul of a woman who knows she has been instrumental in helping to open the heart and mind of a man to sympathetic understanding, that truth may THE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN enter and love take control. There is no better way to worship and glorify God than by assisting his sons on the upward and difficult climb. This takes patience, tolerance, forbearance and other typically feminine virtues. To those of you whose husbands are not as active as they should be or as you desire them to be, remember again that the Lord has said, "For man is not without the woman in the Lord." My daughter has suggested that the word "not'' should be spelled "naught," and really man is naught without the woman. You provoke us to good works, and though we, in turn, sometimes provoke you, your encouragement and unwavering faith are often all we have to keep us in the path of right. First we are encouraged by the influence and inspiration of our mothers and later that of our wives. From experience, I can truly testify that your inspiration and faith become our buckler and shield. This comes into the life of a man when he has a woman by his side who believes in him, encourages him, makes him think he can when he thinks he can't, and I speak from experience. We need the finest in you to support us when we feel weak and inadequate. From Father Adam on down through the ages men have needed to be inspired by the steadying influence and purifying power of women. ' The Prophet Joseph, in addressing the first Relief Society, said, "'How precious are the souls of men! The female part of the community are apt to be contracted in their views. You must not be contracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings. Let this 887 DECEMBER 1965 Society teach women how to behave toward their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection."" And I may add, when a man is borne down with trouble, perplexed with care and difficulty, depressed and disheartened, if he can meet a smile instead of a murmur, a subdued but contagious optimism and faith, instead of complaint, when his mind is troubled and the storms of life seem to engulf him, the solace of affection and kindness of his wife will calm his soul, soothe his feelings and make him almost fit to live with. If you wives, mothers, and sisters exercise your privileges, the angels will become your associates and mentors, and you will have renewed courage, fortitude, and faith, and will become not only helpmates but both anchors and wings as well as charts and compasses. You are indispensable to rich and radiant living. So I say to you, sisters, don't give up because your men are not all you would wish them to be, but maintain your faith, not only in them but in your Heavenly Father's help and your own ability to fulfill your role as a helpmate. Never cease to work and pray for divine guidance in your divine calling. Thus may you hold your families together and prepare them for the eternities to come. To a great extent, the husband's success depends upon his wife's fitness. Government in the State and in the Church constitute an important part of the lives of the people, and the government in the home is the basis of all successful government. In the home, the mother is the principal disciplinarian and teacher in early life, and her influence determines, in a great measure, the ability of her children to succeed in manhood and womanhood in the larger responsibilities in Church and State. She is initially the instrument in the hands of providence to shape and guide the destinies of nations, because she trains the children while they are young and sends them out to accomplish the duties that are to devolve upon them. However, the husband and wife together are, by commandment, to teach their children the principles of the gospel. If they fail to do this, they assume grave responsibilities. In selecting men to occupy responsible positions in the Church, it sometimes happens that a useful and competent man is barred from consideration because of the want of fitness in the wife. Although a wife may not actually bar a husband's opportunities, she may prove a great hindrance to him in the discharge of his duties, which are, in fact, joint duties that belong to his office. But, much more frequently, as we travel about the Church, we find that the wife proves to be his chief counselor and adviser. We thank the Lord for the quality, stability, and faith of our sisters. Sisters, seek to be educated in the highest meaning of the term. The Church abjures ignorance and acclaims intelligence. Get the most possible service out of your time, your body, and your brain, and let all your efforts be directed into honorable channels that no effort shall be wasted and no labor result in loss or evil. Seek the very best society, be kind, polite, agreeable, seeking always to learn whatever is good and comprehend the duties of life that you may be a blessing to your companion, thus placing your lot in life on a par with his. There are people fond of saying that women are the weaker instruments, but I don't believe it. Physically they may be, but spiritually, morally, religiously, and in faith, what man can match a woman who is really converted to the gospel! Women are more willing to make sacrifices than are men, "more patient in suffering, more earnest in prayer." They are the peers and often superior to men in resilience, in goodness, in morality, and in faith. When I reflect upon the duties and_ responsibilities devolving upon our mothers, wives, and sisters, and the influence they wield, I look upon them as the mainspring, the soul of life. It is true that man is supposed to stand at the head, but he must be worthy of that trust. Father Adam was placed here on earth as king of the earth to bring it into subjection, but when Mother Eve came she brought an endowment which he lacked; she made him whole and made it possible for him to fulfill the purpose of his creation. Mothers and wives inspire high ambition, give zest to the whole man and help to shape and guide his destinies. The role of wife and mother is a self-sacrificing role, and because this is so, a woman comes closer to understading and emulating the life of the Master who, Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him... (Hebrews 5:8-9). THE EXALTED SPHERE OF WOMAN A worthy and devoted mother qualifies to receive all the blessings mentioned in the Beatitudes. She is humble and teachable, she is pure in heart, she often mourns and is ever meek. She hungers and thirsts after righteousness and is uniformly merciful. She is a peacemaker, and, shifting to the Epistle of Paul, she suffereth long and is kind, she envieth not, vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up. She rejoiceth not in iniquity but rejoiceth in the truth. She beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, and endureth all things. She thus becomes an ideal member of the Relief Society. Because of her, charity never faileth. Let each Relief Society worker ask herself whether she is providing, first, the spiritual foundations for her children, foundations upon which they may build the superstructure which will stand at the last day when the winds of doubt and confusion beat upon their house, when only those founded upon the rock of eternal truth shall stand. Referring again to a former speaker's words, "All houses are beat upon sooner or later by the storms of life."" One of the most inspiring thoughts in this connection is that the storms beat upon the house that is on the rock as well as the one on the sand, and the fact that your house is built upon the rock will not excuse you from the lessons that the storms have to teach. Thinking of our privileges, obligations, and responsibilities as they affect our lives in the world to come, the words of President John Taylor are pertinent: It is the gospel that teaches a woman that she has a claim upon a 889 DECEMBER 1965 man, and a man that he has a claim upon a woman in the resurrection; it is the gospel that teaches them that, when they rise from the tombs in the resurrection, they will again clasp hands, be reunited, and again participate in that glory for which God designed them before the world was. I can personally testify to the influence of a good mother and a good wife; in fact, I think I must be somewhat of a specialist in this matter of women; I had seven sisters, six daughters, one mother, and one wife, and fourteen granddaughters, and some great granddaughters. I speak, then, from experience when I tell you that you have a choice assignment; you are favored of the Lord; he couldn't be everywhere so he sent you. God bless you that you will measure up to your assignment. Now I know that some of you are wondering what we are going to say to the men about this. If you will come to the Priesthood meeting Saturday night, you will know. I, for one, propose to hold up to the men the grave responsibilities that rest upon any man who marries a. Woman, who fathers a child, who holds the Priesthood that he may honor it and, in honoring it, may honor God. We commend and congratulate this great organization of women. You have a world-wide reputation and responsibility. We are proud of your _ outstanding leaders. They are honored and respected by women's organizations throughout the world. We pray the Lord's blessing upon them and upon you loyal and efficient stake and mission officers and upon all members of this powerful and efficient arm of the Church. As we sing together, 'Home, Sweet Home," let us resolve to go home and have our regular home night, study the lessons that have been prepared, and lead our children in. A circle of prayer, that they may come to know-God: and to bask in the sunlight of. His love, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. On a Snowy Evening Linda Clarke Softly, like the twilight hour, Snow dims the church and grounds. Gently in a song of hope An organed hymn resounds. From an open chapel door A beam divides the night And tracks there, by the faithful made, Are etchings on the white. Pray for those not citadeled, Far from the light's warm span, Alone upon the fringe of night Cowled in the words of man. 890 Send me your flakes of snow; Pile them high upon fluffy pile! Under their softness my beauty will grow. Just let me rest a little while........ Wind, Wind, Whisper a bedtime story, To my mountains, my valleys, my everything, While we sleep and dream of the rampant glory We'll bring to the world come spring. Lucile P. Peterson Appointed to the General Board Julia Rae P. Keith Our family rejoiced at Mother's (Lucile P. Peterson's) appointment to the Relief Society General Board, September 29, 1965. She has been training for such a position all her life. Mother was born in Ogden, Utah. Her father, Chauncey Parry, died when she was four years old, and her mother, Julia E. Hutchens Parry, reared her seven children, teaching them the principles of the gospel. Grandmother spent thirty years as ward and stake Relief Society president in the North Weber Stake. When thirteen years old, Mother's Church service began. She has been president of the ward Primary, YWMIA, Relief Society, and stake Relief Society. My father, M. Blaine Peterson, and mother were married in the Salt Lake Temple during the depression years. He enrolled in law school in Washington, D. C., and when they returned to Utah they had a law degree and two young children. Father has had Mother's willing support in all his Church and civic activities. During the years he spent in the United States Congress, as Representative of the First Congressional District of Utah, she had many interesting experiences. As president of the Chevy Chase Ward Relief Society, in Maryland, she worked closely with the missionaries. Our home has been one of love and understanding. My brother, Major Richard B., who married Joan Hinckley Willes, is a radiologist in the Army Hospital in Landstuhi, Germany. | attended Brigham Young University, and married Bill G. Keith in the temple. Thomas P., who is attending Weber State College, served in the North German Mission as assistant to the mission president. MaryLu is a sophomore at Brigham Young University. Mother attended Weber College, Utah State University, and studied a year in New York. She served as secretary to the President, the Board of Trustees, and the Alumni Association of Weber College. She is presently a member of the Board of Trustees of Weber State College, and is on the Coordinating Council of Higher Education of Utah. She and Father are active on the Parents Committee of Brigham Young University. May our Heavenly Father continue to bless her in her new calling. 892 Elaine B. Curtis Appointed to the General Board Elaine Broadbent Curtis was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 29, 1965. A daughter of Sylvester Broadbent and M. Josephine Murdock Broadbent, she was born in Heber City, Utah. Her early schooling was in Heber City and when the family moved to Salt Lake City, she resumed her studies at the LDS High School. Sister Curtis is a graduate of the University of Utah with a B. S. Degree and teaching certificate. Sister Curtis and her husband, A. Ray Curtis, are the parents of five children, one son and four daughters. Mrs. Vaughn L. (Patricia) Belnap, Plainfield, New Jersey, Mrs. Ronald R. (Carol) Ollis, Mrs. Michael H. (Mary) Gourley, Thomas R., and Jody Curtis, all of Salt Lake City. Tom and Jody are attending the University of Utah, while the other members of the family are busy caring for the eleven grandchildren who are the pride and joy of the Curtis family. Sister Curtis has been active in ward and stake auxiliaries in Highland, Cottonwood, and Holladay Stakes, serving as a member of the YWMIA and Primary presidencies, teacher in the Beehive and Gleaner departments, Sunday School teacher, Primary teacher and secretary, Junior Sunday School coordinator. She is a past member of the Jordan Valley Regional Council, Cottonwood Maternity Hospital, and Deseret Industries Board. During the time her children were in school, she also served in various capacities in the Parent-Teacher Association. She is a past member of the Granite School District Curriculum Committee. In Relief Society Sister Curtis has been a visiting teacher for many years. She served as Work Counselor in the Cottonwood Stake for one year prior to her assignment as President, in which position she served until the stake was divided, then became president of the Holladay Stake Relief Society to complete a term of six years. Following this experience Sister Curtis became president of the Holladay eighth ward Relief Society. She and her family recently returned from the Southwest British Mission where her husband presided for three years and Sister Curtis directed the mission Relief Society organizations. While in the mission field she and her husband were assigned to supervise the MIA activities in the West European Missions. 893 Hulda P. Young General Secretary-Treasurer @ On Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, approximately 10,000 leaders of Relief Society from 396 stakes and 29 missions throughout the Church assembled in the Tabernacle on Temple Square and in nearby chapels for departmental sessions, to receive instruction, motivation, and inspiration to aid them in tneir respective callings in Relief Society. Representatives were in attendance from the United States, including Alaska and Hawaii, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Switzerland, Germany, France, England, Scotland, Australia, New Zealand, and isles of the Pacific. At the opening session on Wednesday morning, upwards of 3,400 stake and mission leaders eagerly received the evaluation given by President Belle S. Spafford of the work of Relief Society during the past year, and important policy instruction to guide Relief Society in the months ahead. Inspiring reports were given by former leaders of the Southern Far East Mission and the Irish Mission, and the president of the new stake at Wellington, New Zealand. The universality and unity of the world-wide sisterhood of Relief Society resounded deeper in the hearts of those assembled as the St. Johns 894 Stake Singing Mothers, who provided the music for this session, sang most impressively, "One World." Elder Roy M. Darley was at the organ. Because of a meeting in the temple for all of the General Authorities, President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Harold B. Lee, advisors to Relief Society, were unable to address the opening session. Sister Jessie Evans Smith, however, read the inspirational message which had been prepared by her husband, President Smith, declaring the individual duty of each member to teach the gospel by precept and by example. Brother Roy W. Doxey, author of the current theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants, was invited to speak in place of Elder Lee. He gave an edifying discourse on the subject of testimony. Wednesday afternoon at the general session, heartfelt messages of encouragement, counsel, faith, and persuasion were given by President Spafford and her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and by Sister Elna P. Haymond of the General Board. Mrs. Lorena C. Fletcher, American Mother of the Year, also spoke impressively. President Hugh B. Brown of The First Presidency delivered a soul-stirring message to the women of the Church, who were given greater insight into the "favored position" of women in the home and in the Church, and a broader vision regarding their important role of wives as well as mothers in Zion. The music for this session was gloriously rendered by a combined Singing Mothers Chorus from Beaver, Cedar, Cedar West, Kanab, Panguitch, Parowan, St. George, St. George East, Uvada, and Zion Park Stakes, concluding with the inspiring hymn, "Home, Sweet Home," directed by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board. Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board directed the chorus in one anthem. Elder Alexander Schreiner was at the organ. Two new General Board members were sustained, making a total of forty-nine members. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 stake and mission Relief Society leaders were warmly welcomed by the General Board to the reception in the Relief Society Building. In separate sessions Thursday morning, detailed instructions were given to all twelve members of Relief Society Stake Boards —to presidencies, _ secretarytreasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, work meeting leaders, visiting teacher message leaders, and to theology, social science, and _ literature class leaders. At the concluding session of the Conference, Elder Delbert L. Stapley of the Council of Twelve gave a stimulating address on the subject of "Relief Society Administration Leadership." This was followed by a moving presentation entitled RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE "Home Is My Harbor," written and directed by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board. Through a glimpse into the life of a typical Latter-day Saint family, the presentation impressively portrayed the great influence Relief Society can be in the lives of its members and the pronounced effect the Priesthood and Relief Society coordinated courses relating to teaching and living the gospel in the home, can have upon Latter-day Saint families.. As the concluding speaker of the Conference, Elder Marion G. Romney, an advisor to Relief Society from the Council of The Twelve, outlined the procedure to be followed by Relief Society leaders in coordinating with the Priesthood Home Teaching Program to enlist all women of the Church in Relief Society, and to help them maintain consistent attendance at their meetings. Elder Romney imbued those in attendance with an added conviction of the inspiration of the General Authorities in the development of the new Church Correlation Program, and with a desire to support fully all aspects of this program. All assembled joined at the conclusion of another great Relief Society Annual General Conference in singing 'Love at Home," which seemed to reecho the need to make each Latterday Saint home a haven of beauty, love, harmony, and unity, and a foundation for eternal exaltation for all of its family members. Through Relief Society, the wives and mothers of the Church are aided in the accomplishment of this great responsibility. 895 «The Perfect Christ® g A blanket of fresh snow covered the ground, making the colonialstyle home with the typical green shutters a picture for a Christmas card. Inside the cozy home, Judith Blair busied herself making cookies for the fast approaching holiday season. Excitement filled the atmosphere in anticipation of the days to come. My family will soon be home, Judith thought, as she worked, a glowing look of happiness upon her delicate face. She and her husband Henry had looked forward to the holiday season for so long. It would be the first time that the family had been together in three years. Steven, their son, had been stationed overseas with the Air Force and Kathy, their daughter, was away at college in her sophomore year. Judith remembered pleasantly the times that she and Kathy had spent together shopping for the holidays, and she could hardly 896 Betty Lou Martin Smith wait until they could have that time together again. We've always been such a close family, she thought, and now there'll be just the four of us as it was before Steven went overseas. Putting the cookies in the oven to bake, Judith walked over to the window. Outside, the shadows cast a strange, mystic light as the twilight came. The view was indeed breath-taking, and she breathed a sigh at its loveliness. It will be a perfect Christmas this year, she smiled contentedly to herself. The ringing of the telephone brought Judith back to reality as she hurried to its beckoning. "Hello, Mom, this is Kathy." "Kathy!" Judith was surprised. "Is everything all right? I didn't expect to hear from you again before we met the train." "Everything is just fine, Mom," Kathy explained. "I just wondered how you would like to have roomma, ] £0Ing to left here alone foy the holidays. It is too far for em to g ome; and J hought Maybe jt Ould see More like hristmas to them if hey Spent It with y ~ Judith Was glad that Kathy couldn't see the disappointment on her face. "Kathy, Was planIng the ho Managed. Kathy Was silent for 4 moment, Needs ag | dear, if that js what then we will make the y i know that at C ristmastime " "Tl Tnaw Where Kathy got her 'Mpulsivenesg from enry." Jy. Lth was annoyed, « he never Could tyr Stray cat or Of and u Should hink of h family before she acts » For the first 4 enry no ticed the Crushed log upon his Wife's face. Ver the years he had come to know her very mood so Well THE PERFEcr CHRISTMAS "You're disappointeg that we going to be just the dear?" Gently Henry put his arms around Judith. He world Wwe t enjoy Christm Ss this year as We ever have," Henry Comforted his Wife, "T wish I had your compassion, Henry." Judith dried her eyes, "Tl do My best to m them fee] Welcome. [ won't let Kathy down." "That's My girl." Henry smiled "T think that we ould get them A ulet, 800d-looking Steven Was more Jovia] and talkative than usual]. DECEMBER 1965 the family is simply terrific too." "Yes, they are very nice, Kathy." Judith tried to sound convincing. The day before Christmas dawned bright and crisp. The earth appeared as an enchanted fairyland with its sparkling white snow. "What a simply glorious day to go shopping." Kathy went into Judith's room and found her seated in front of the window. "Aren't you ready, Mom? We're going in a few minutes." "JT didn't plan on going with you, Kathy." Judith turned her face away from her daughter. "You young people don't want me tagging along with you." "Oh, but we do, Mrs. Blair." Angela stood in the doorway. "It will be more like being at home having you with us. Please go." "Oh, please do, Mrs. Blair," Sue added as she walked up to the side of Angela. "It will be such fun." A pleasant feeling came over Judith, and her face flushed becomingly. "Well, I guess that I might as well. It will only take me a few minutes to get ready." She was flattered that the girls would want her with them. Judith couldn't remember having spent a happier day in her entire life. The girls were so congenial and such fun to be with. The Christmas carols sounded out joyously as they walked from store to store, and the sidewalk Santas added their warmth to the day. "T can't ever remember having walked so far on carapus," Sue commented, as she removed her shoes and flopped into an easy chair. "Mrs. Blair is the only one who doesn't seem tired at all. I 898 'honestly don't know how parents do it." Angela and Kathy laughed. "TI know that I can't keep up with them," Angela chided. "T don't know whether I am going to be able to dance tonight or not," Kathy said weakly, "although it is very thoughtful of Steve to get us dates." "Oh, come on now, Kathy. He just arranged it so that he could go with Angela," Sue teased. "Honestly, Sue, I don't know where you get your ideas from." Angela blushed as she tried to match Sue's wit. It was evident that Steven was quite taken by Angela. He had never been so attentive to a girl before. "I must say that Steven has good taste," Judith said approvingly. Christmas Eve the girls took over little chores that had always tired Judith before, and she could not remember having felt so rested the day before Christmas. She went about her remaining tasks leisurely, enjoying every moment of her family's and guests' happy chatter. The very air had a mystery about it, as if it were truly about to proclaim the anniversary of the Savior's birth. How beautiful and tranquil the world seemed, and how beautiful and tranquil Judith felt in her heart. That evening after supper, everyone gathered in the living room to hear Henry's traditional reading from the Bible, the story of the Savior's birth. Kathy turned the Christmas tree lights on, and they flickered merrily in the warm light of the fireplace. Judith let her gaze rest upon each of the faces before her, and She thought that she h seen aq I ent. Want you t After enry had finished reading, there Was a hushed now that | a more Perfect Chri mas," can't StSilence Christmas Made o Many things— Ope and q ams to Make the family glad appy Children, bells that ring: trees Colored lights, n Caroleq we Sing and Sing Frost Upon the Window Scenes; Our kindreg and their Bifts of love, i © stars of Snow. 899 Brownie Bernice Brown Mea, @ Mother's tree put on its Christmas hat every December. The rest of the year it was a plain, everyday blue spruce doing sentry duty on our front lawn. In the beginning, when we three children were small, it wasn't much to rave, about. Short, stubby, and spindly... But the tree grew along with us. Memory has obscured the exact year Mother decided to light the tree. But I remember her brown eyes sparkling as she watched from the window while Dad and our brother strung the lights like holly berries around and around the spreading blue-green branches. When all was ready, Mother flicked the switch, and we all stepped back in awe as our little old everyday tree became a magic tree ablaze with lights. Located as it was on a hill, and twinkling like the stars in the black sky above its head, the tree signaled the arrival of Christmas to homes for miles around. As the years hurried by, the tree became harder to light, its branches shooting up until' they seemed to strain against the sky itself. But the tree was always lighted. Mother later added some novel, flickering, ''on-off" lights to delight the small grandchildren who had joined the family circle. The lighting of "grandma's tree" became a local symbol of the Christmas season. Its gay lights were visible for miles in the clear frosty air. It heralded the arrival of the "season to be jolly" to an entire town. Then came last year. December inched closer and closer into the Christmas season. The tree remained dark—only icy patches of snow ornamented its branches. The grandchildren walked quickly by, their eyes averted from the black and shuttered house behind the dark 900 MOTHER'S CHRISTMAS TREE tree. No one came home for Christmas last year. Home was only a house now. A deserted, empty house, looking with sad black eyes out over the snowy valley. Tentatively, we two sisters wrote our brother—was he going to light Mother's tree anyway for auld lang syne? Our sister-in-law's letter came after the Christmas season was over. Yes, our brother had intended to light the tree, but in the end he could not bring himself to do it—why put lights outside the house on Mother's tree, when the light inside the house, which had been our Mother, was gone. Sadly, we agreed. But this Christmas things will be different. The tree itself demands it. The tree has kept on living... And growing.- - proudly on its topknot is a spindly sprig of shiny new blue needles. They point up toward the shining heavens, and, like Mother's tree, we must rub the raw edges off our grief and keep growing, too. What better could we do for our Mother than to let her tree, blazing with lights, proclaim to the valley, from its hilltop, that we do believe in the deep and true meaning of Christmas, and that the light she planted in the hearts of her children still glows and will continue to bring joy to the world! The Remembered Lael W. Hill Low sky days Bewildering with silver Write your name in wind; All unhued hours Pooled on air's crystal Speak in light your eyes. (What though kaleidoscopic moments Leaf the tree, Petal new seasons, Break from the colored bough Again. -- again?) The pure, pale, lucid fall Of words less fragile than time Reveals the always you And we have never parted. Imagine eaten ) dismantleq their tree it they Stayed there ton; | rhaps, could e two riends in for » dinner tomorrow- 1 that it had Served its Purpose » and been Promised that down at YS a little Sadornaments big, little girl? She was a young woman. She had reached her maturity. And she and Randy were fond of each other. Very fond. The two of them had gone to Alice's place for dinner and were going on to another party. Jill had promised to drop in before the party. Susan hoped she would not forget. She wanted to invite them, once more, to the midnight circle. Yet, she could not be offended if they preferred dancing the old year out with their friends, and came later. Susan was just picking up a fallen ornament (the tree was getting dry), when she heard laughter and footsteps in the hall. She looked up. Her husband and the four young people were entering at the same time. Peter had some joke for them, even though he had just made a house call to see a sick child. (Good, good Peter, always dependable, always conscientious when other doctors might even refuse to go, telling the mother what to do, advising her to bring the child to the office the next day. He had said, "The mother needs reassurance. Night can be such a bad time with a child sick."' Yes, he was the best.) A sudden thrill went through Susan, hearing the laughter, the talk; being aware that they were shaking the newly fallen snow from their shoulders and boots. She turned to greet them, smiling. "Hi," the young people called back, Peter said, "Hell-o." Then, addressing his daughter and her three friends, he went on, "TDoesn't Susan make a picture in her gold dress, beside that pink Christmas tree? Can you wonder why I fell in love with her?" Jill said, "Oh, Daddy. For THE TINSEL AND THE ORNAMENT goodness sake!"' But Susan could tell she was pleased. Some wise person said, "The greatest gift a man can give his children is a respect for their mother." Peter gave her that, surely, and more than that. He gave her his great love. And admiration. She had tried to earn them all, of course. Susan reached her hand to Peter, and the other four moved about the room a little awkwardly, though they had always seemed at home before. Jill had moved over to the mantel, and was fondling one of the small angels which somehow resembled the girl, with its long, blonde hair and blue eyes. Suddenly, Randy was _ beside her, and the two looked at each other quickly, then away. Susan went to speak, then stopped, knowing her daughter was about to speak. She did, rather slowly, the words coming faster as she went on:"Mother, Daddy, we're going over to Evie's for this New Year's Eve party, you know. They've decided to have an allnight party. We thought we'd tell you." Her pretty, dimpled chin was set. She had been careful to say, "tell you," instead of "ask you." "All night?" her father asked, "You'll be pretty tired." Susan's mouth was dry. She asked, "Will her parents be there?" Jill smiled, almost patronizingly, "Well, after midnight, I imagine they will be home... And in bed. We're not going to do anything that will need chaperoning, for pity's. To stay there till.. -' her mother pro- 903 DECEMBER 1965 Jill was ready with the hackneyed answer, "Well, all the girls do it. And it's just once a year. We'll have breakfast. It will be real keen." Real keen. Susan sat down, her knees suddenly too weak to hold her standing. She groped in her mind, in her heart, for words to say, words that would not irritate, not offend, but would make a point. She couldn't tell the girl —certainly not in front of strangers—how easy it was to be tempted. She couldn't confess that once when she was young, she almost stayed out all night, almost knew the power of temptation. Peter and she had had to stop on a lonely road, in a rainstorm. They could not see a hand before them, and had waited for it to cease. She had leaned against his shoulder for warmth and his arm had drawn her close. He had kissed her, and alone— with the rain beating a weird, unreal sound on the windows—she had felt unreal, too, and caught up in a strange sweetness, just being near him. She loved him so. But, she had remembered her mother, her father, all the things she had been taught. Of course, Peter was a gentleman, and loved her enough to protect her. But, even... A gentleman... Sometimes... She closed her eyes, wanting to say something, to warn Jill of possible dangers. She wished she could speak to Peter alone, could plan some strategy which would not irritate nor anger their child. Something which would not be melodramatic, but mnght: Why didn't Peter say something? There was nothing to do but come out with an out-and-out No. That was the simplest, the 904 surest. There wasn't time for quibbling. They were waiting for an answer. Susan glanced briefly into her daughter's eyes. She looked tired. It had been a hectic holiday season. School would start in a few days, yet the girl would not admit to being tired in front of her friends. There was only one thing to do. Susan started to say, firmly, "I'm sorry... But...." She saw the girl stiffen, and felt she couldn't bear it if Jill answered, "1'm sorry, but I'm eighteen." Susan paused before she went on, wanting to tell Jill they would like them to come back home, to be in the friendship circle as they sang "Auld Lang Syne." Then, her husband, Peter, the girl's father was saying, 'What your mother is trying to say is that if that is what you really want, it is all right." Susan caught her breath in disbelief, but before she could say anything, he was going on, "But, none of the women on either side of the family has ever stayed out all night." There was complete silence in the room. Jill looked at Randy. He smiled. She smiled in return, saying, "Well, I wouldn't want to break a family tradition, now would I? We'll be back by midnight. Have plenty of that good cider punch." She kissed her parents, and Alice looked at her with something akin to envy in her eyes. "Happy New Year" filled the air. But Susan, looking at the tree standing in the corner, was glad she had extended Christmas with its big and little miracles. She felt Peter's arm about her shoulders. Ramona W. Cannon Iphigene Ochs (Mrs. Arthur Hays Sulzberger), seventy-three, is the daughter of Adolph Ochs, who bought and began publishing the New York Times in 1896. She is matriarch of her family circle and is on the Board of Directors. Her son, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, is president and publisher. She is a powerful influence in keeping the Times up to the standards maintained by her father: vast knowledge in every field, encyclopedic coverage of material, accuracy, and the impossibility. Of anybody's buying its influence. Miss Betty Skelton of Detroit, Michigan, set a new international record for women's land speed in driving a car last September on the Bonneville Salt Flats near Salt Lake City. Her record was 277.62 miles per hour. Miss Phyllis Steorts of Salt Lake City, is president of an international organization known as Executive Secretaries, Inc. Mrs. Gwen Cafritz is one of the first 250 people to carry ''on the person" alarms. The new invention, planned to help fight crime, beginning in Washington, D. C., is an F. M. Radio transmitter that can be carried in pocketbook or briefcase to send a message to a private monitoring service, which, in turn, informs the police. At the same time it sounds an audible alarm to frighten away the criminal. Mrs. Cafritz, a Washington hostess, was a recent robbery victim. Mrs. Sue Weiss worked with Dr. Melvin Selzer (both from the University of Michigan) in a study to discover the proportion of chronic alcoholics among drivers responsible for fatal accidents on the road. The results indicate that the percentage is almost fifty. Caroline Field, nationally known for her work in children's. Libraries, is head of the children's library in Philadelphia. She has brought to her city, and to the country at large, an awareness of children's needs for good literature, and of what constitutes high-quality reading for children. Miss Marguerite Piazza is a beautiful and popular opera star who believes that one must have versatility to succeed today. She is praised for both singing and acting. She also dances and sings jazz. Helen Waite Papashvily has written a lively biography of Louisa May Alcott for children from ten to fourteen years of age. Those familiar with Miss AIlcott's autobiographical novel Little Women will note with enjoyment the relationship between the facts of Miss Alcott's life and the fictional incidents which developed from them in the novel. Joan Ritchie, nationally famous folk singer, who specializes in ballads of the Appalachian region, also plays the dulcimer, an instrument of ancient origin. 905 EDITORIAL The 135th Semi-Annual @ The 135th Semi-Annual Church Conference was held October 1, 2, and 3, in the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It was a time of rejoicing, | enlightenment, and inspiration. The messages were widely dissemi- | nated by more than 200 radio and television stations. The Church- | owned shortwave station WRUL in New York City, beamed the Sunday | addresses to all parts of the world in English, German, Spanish, and Portuguese. Congregations in Germany and England assembled to hear the Sunday morning session by closed circuit broadcast. All of the General Authorities were present at the conference, although time did not permit all of them to speak. The spirituality of the meetings was heightened by the presence and participation of President David O. McKay, who extended counsel, love, and greetings to a vast audience, seen and unseen, who once more rejoiced to hear the voice of their prophet. In his opening address, President McKay spoke of the precious heritage of liberty and the effort and vigilance needed to maintain personal freedom in the nations of the earth. He urged the saints to exercise devoted responsibility which is always necessary to the survival of liberty. We are grateful for the blessings of the Lord to His Church in all the world, for the assurance of His divine guidance and inspiration. With deep gratitude we acknowledge in your presence the Lord's nearness and His goodness, and in that spirit of prayerful appreciation, proclaim that our souls respond in harmony with the glorious vision given to the Prophet Joseph Smith.... Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct our lives is God's greatest gift to man. Freedom of choice is more to be treasured than any possession earth can give. It is inherent in the spirit of man. {ft is a divine gift to every normal being. Whether born in abject poverty, or shackled at birth by inherited riches, everyone has the most precious of all lifes endowments—the gift of free agency, man's inherited and inalienable right. President Hugh B. Brown counseled strict and abiding loyalty of each and every member of the Church to his own homeland, and urged Church Conference all the saints to make a determined and constructive effort to uphold the institutions of freedom. We should understand that each of us has a duty to honor, support, and sustain our civil leaders and the law. The fact that everyone is entitled to his or her own opinion insofar as various matters of law and government are concerned does not relieve any one of us of the personal responsibility to obey, honor, and sustain the elected governmental officers and the law which it is their duty to administer. Surely as we face the future there is reason for concern, but there is no _reason for despair. Let us find a reason to lift, to build and to uphold. President N. Eldon Tanner emphasized the two-fold nature of laws established for the government of men upon the earth—protection and punishment. To us the law is the bedrock of our basic ideals: democracy, freedom, justice. However, from day to day most of us take our law for granted. We forget about it until we need it or break it, but law looks over our shoulders constantly, seldom intruding on us, so much a part of our lives that it has become more of a guide than a restriction, more protection than threat of punishment. Let us remember, too, and never forget, that if we keep the laws of God, the greatest of all law-givers, we will automatically keep the laws of the land, and that the laws of God, if kept, will ensure peace, security, and happiness here on this earth, and lead us to immortality and eternal life. A farewell blessing was given by President McKay in words of tender concern and counsel. My brethren and sisters, as we come to this parting hour, | should like to say to you that the teachings and life of the Master never before seemed to me more beautiful, more necessary, and more applicable to human happiness than they are today. Never have | believed more firmly in the perfection of humanity asethe final result of man's placement here on earth. With my whole soul | accept Jesus Christ as the personification of human perfection—as God made manifest in the flesh, as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind. The National Tuberculosis Association @ The fight immediately facing us is a tough one. Despite the best efforts of all medical and social workers, the long retreat of TB has temporarily ground to a halt. The fight against emphysema, bronchitis, and other crippling lung diseases has just begun. That's why this year's Christmas Seal appeal, the only source of funds available to the Tuberculosis Associations, is one of the most important in history. Your contribution will help assure that final victory —not dream-style, but for real. Most illnesses—those that result from infection, anyway—are in and out of the human body in a fairly short time. With TB it is different. Whether or not the infection develops into active disease right away, the germ settles down to stay. Not just for a year or so—but for the lifetime of its human ''host."' These "'hosts'' are some thirty-five million people. About that many Americans have TB germs in their bodies. That was the report to the nation by the United States Surgeon General's Task Force on the future of tuberculosis control. How many of these 35,000,000 ''break down'? And what happens when they do? Answer—each year about 53,000 develop (or break down into) active TB, each capable or potentially capable of spreading TB to others. And another 10,000 previous sufferers from the active disease, suffer a relapse. That is why this year's Christmas Seal appeal, the only source of funds available to the Tuberculosis Associations, is one of the most important in history. Your contribution will help turn the tables on TB and help assure that final victory, not only for tuberculosis but other crippling respiratory diseases. Please use Christmas Seals generously on all your holiday mail. And answer your Christmas Seal letter with a heartfelt contribution. | Love Life Zara Sabin Life!! Love it, All there is of it: Its winds and its rains, Its high hills and plains, Its days that are fair— Red roses everywhere. All there is of it. This life, | love it. 908 Janet W. Breeze m The yearly joyful suspense leading up to Christmas is one of the most exciting events of childhood. And the extra little fun things that mothers and grandmothers do to enhance the anticipation, create lasting memories for starry-eyed youngsters. — Here is a new twist to the old European custom of celebrating the pre-Christmas that can be fun for the whole family. Instead of a calendar or numbered scene which helps count the suspenseful days, decorate your dining room table, or some corner of the house, with a "Sugar Plum'' tree. First, find a small, but sturdy, tree limb which can be successfully sprayed silver, gold, green, or any other color you desire. At the same time, paint one candy box or shoe box for each anxious child. (And we suggest spray painting outdoors, if at all possible.) When the paint is dry, "plant" your tree in a foil-covered container in which you have placed a ball of modeling clay. Fill the container with rocks to prevent the tree's tipping with the weight of decorations. Next, give each child in the family a supply of old Christmas cards or colored construction paper, glue, and glitter, so he can make one decoration for each allotted day until Christmas. Decorations cut from old cards or made from paper should have a small hole punched in the top end for threading through a strong loop, ornament book, or wire, for attaching to the tree. In addition to paper decorations, each child's collection could also include small silver bells, candy canes, small packages of raisins, little colored paper sacks containing sugared cereal, nuts, or other Christmas treats. When the decorations are complete, they are safely tucked away in the boxes which were painted earlier. Each child can decorate and personalize his own box as desired. Now for the best part. Trim the tree with as many pieces of candy, raisin boxes, cereal bags, etc., as there are days till Christmas times the number of children. Then — every day — each child gets to exchange one decoration from his box for one goody on the tree. Christmas Eve, the last exchange is made, and Christmas is finally here! When the holidays are past, strip your tree of its seasonal - items and save for that preschooler who keeps asking, "How many days till my birthday?" 909 £m? Mal AY arrays ghee Lauretta Wells Craner, Burley, Idaho, lives on a farm and enjoys the beauty of fields and flowers, her garden, and her home. She has won many awards at the county fair for her cooking, sewing, and flower arrangements, but she is bestknown for her remarkable skill as a quilter and a designer of quilts. One of her quilts, exquisitely made, tells the story of Lauretta's marriage to John Craner and the events of her later life. Another quilt features an arrangement of tulips in rich and glowing color. Her patchwork quilts, she says, are stitched with memory. Her appreciation for beauty and order is evidenced in her well-kept home, where pillowcases, dish towels, and handmade aprons exhibit the art of a devoted homemaker. 'I want to keep my home always beautiful," she says, ''and especially at this time when my husband, who is ill, needs encouragement and cheerfulness around him." Mrs. Craner has been active in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church. All of her married life she has been either a visiting teacher or a member of the ward presidency of Relief Society. Now, at the age of seventy, she is president of the Star Ward Relief Society. For many years she has kindly ministered to the sick and the bereaved, and has opened the doors of her home to those in need. She is the mother of nine, grandmother to forty-two, and great-grandmother to fiftyfive. 910 mmm FESTIVE "SAND BAKELS" FOR THE HOLIDAYS Hjordis. Skollingsberg Kearns North Stake, Utah As a feature of the Kearns North Stake, Utah, visiting teacher convention, the theme of "Around the World With Relief Society" was effectively presented by the sisters of the stake who were born outside the continental United States. Hjordis Skollingsberg, who was born in Norway, made some of her famous "Sand Bakels" for the refreshment table. The '"Bakels" are tasty and very attractive. They have a special appeal for parties and for the holiday season. "SAND BAKELS" (Fancy Tarts) Preheat oven to 350° For crust: 2. Add: Mix: sticky) 1. Add: 1 egg 3. Add: cream Beat well together Press dough into tart forms or tart tins (muffin tins or individual metal jello molds can be used) and bake. The dough should be about 4% to % inch thick. Bake until golden brown. Fill with whipping cream. (In Denmark the tarts are filled with vanilla pudding.) Then put a layer of strawberries or strawberry jam, then a layer of whipping cream, and a cherry on top. Where? Ruth G. Rothe Where, oh, where Has the time gone? People wonder every day. Perhaps they should be told The truth, that— Time has slipped—AWAY! 911 lc. And 2 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Sugar 1 big tbsp. Heavy or whipping 3 c. And 3 tbsp. Flour (add more flour, if dough is too 1 tsp. Almond extract as all o NS tow, 'ard kindly Hal Rumel Fich Pond;. A UeEt A New Version of an Old Game Verda F. Burton Member, General Board of Relief Society (Displayed at the Work Meeting Exhibit of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 1965) Model: Dora Z. Fotheringham, Holladay Stake The skirt was made from an old sheet dyed orange, and decorated with brightcolored pockets cut with pinking scissors from scraps of printed material. (For directions, see continuation on page 931) 914 wre e oa bon as «Sree e ea. Pe ae Hal Rumel 'e Made by Susan S. Curtis, Bonneville Stake, and Jane N. Sheffield, Monument Park Stake. A graceful evergreen tree (pine, fir, spruce, juniper, cedar) sprayed a glistening white, and adorned from top to bottom (in the center), with a streamer of pink roses makes an unusually lovely Christmas tree. The tree in the picture, in addition to the trimming on the tree itself, has a garland of roses trimmed with pearls, arranged on a crescent of greenery, to form a ''frontage,'' and to make a place for stacking the Christmas presents. A tree sprayed in pink or pale blue could be trimmed with pale yellow or white roses, or a plain evergreen tree might wear garlands of roses—red or pink or yellow. 915 Hal Rumel d velvet ribbon bows and attractively decorated with re Allen seated Salt Lake City, Utah; Christopher Ponderosa pine tree, inexpensively and pine cones. The Don B. Allen home, in the chair. 916 CANDLE BOWLS MAKE DECORATIVE GIFTS Attractive candle bowls can be made by covering plain crystal bowls (fish bowls can be used) with gilded hair nets and placing the bowls on a metal base, or a base carved from wood and sprayed with gold or silver paint to match the color of the gilded net. To gild the net, lay it on a piece of waxed paper and spray the segments of the net carefully on both sides. Allow to dry thoroughly. Using a small brush, lightly touch the inside of the net with strong glue, and attach to the bowl. Artificial flowers or candles are then placed in the bowl. Roses sprayed with gold make a lovely arrangement in a golden netted bowl. QUILTS MAKE LOVELY GIFTS Anna Nielsen Smith of Crescent (Mount Jordan Stake, Utah), displays some of her lovely quilts—a gold-colored satin coverlet, a quilt in gay butterfly design, and an historic cream-colored quilt with an embroidered motif featuring the Crescent Ward chapel. Christmas Decorations Simply Beautiful Made by Darlene C. Dedekind, member of the General Board of Relief Society, and displayed at the 1965 Work Meeting Exhibit. The styrofoam base of an unusually attractive centerpiece is covered with boughs and pine cones sprayed with gold. Triangles of glass, glued to sticks, are inserted into the styrofoam base, and candles, arranged behind each triangle of glass, add a festive glow. His, A lovely wreath with styrofoam base wrapped in ribbon is covered with flowers also made of ribbon, interspersed with green velvet ribbon and artificial greenery. A big green velvet bow is added at the top. An interesting hanging decoration made of a triangle of red felt is adorned with a wicker design, artifical greenery, Christmas bells, and pine cones. Little bells on a cord hang from the bottom. Transparencies by Hal Rumel HOME the Place of Christmas And the Season—A Time to Remember Decorative arrangements from the LeRoy Pia home _ Salt Lake City, Utah I i. DINING ROOM The long table is covered with a white linen cloth accented with a red runner of brocaded taffeta. A narrow runner of green velvet centers the red material. Six green candles ring a grouping of artificial fruit and plastic balls as a centerpiece. A bow of green velvet ribbon accents the red and green balls hanging from the chandelier. The Christmas tree, standing between the white candelabra, is made of Oregon grape leaves, sprayed a dark green, and ornamented with plastic balls, some of which contain small electric lights. The tree body is made of styrofoam. MUSIC ROOM—LIBRARY Maroon-colored love seat and chair; pictures above the love seat come from Brazil and are made of butterflies. The artificial tree is trimmed with plastic balls and crystals taken from a chandelier (plastic crystals could be substituted). The colors harmonize with the pale green walls and ceiling. Transparencies by Hal Rumel 921 KITCHEN AND BREAKFAST NOOK VIEW A runner of red felt borders the top of the wall, decorated with cutout figures of bells, Santa Claus, and stars. They are attached with glue. The holder for Christmas cards is made of red felt, with a green pocket. The interesting and unique twenty-four day calendar in the center of the wall is decorated with a felt Christmas tree to which are sewed sequins and small glittering bells. The small decorative figures on the calendar are felt pockets, each one containing a small gift. On each of the twenty-four days preceding Christmas, one pocket is opened by the children and the gift placed upon the Christmas tree. The white tureen centerpiece on the round table is filled with artificial fruit, pine cones, and holly leaves. A Christmas apron made of burlap, decorated with drapery balls, is laid across the smaller table. SHANOA'S ROOM AT CHRISTMAS TIME The tree on the table is made of raffia. Some of the raffia is left in its original dark nink color and some of it is sprayed a pale pink. Gold and silver glitter crystals are sprinkled on the raffia and small lights glow in the branches. The raffia is given body for the branches by being intertwined with wire. The small dark green tree on the floor is really a music box, jeweled and pearl-encrusted. Saa 923 a A Toy Tub for the Children — Peggy Ann Horton, Murray South Stake (Displayed at the Work Meeting Exhibit of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, 1964) 924 Hat Rumel made from the bottom half of a reinforced cardboard storage drum. (A square box made of heavy cardboard could be substituted, and a smaller or larger size could be used.) The tub is spray-painted on the inside, and the outside is covered with blue denim attached with strong glue. Bias tape is glued along the top to cover the rough edge, and red fringe is attached to make a gay-looking trim for the tub. The felt train, made from a pattern in a coloring book, is glued on the denim. Toy tubs and toy boxes can be mounted on rollers or on wheels for easy moving from place to place. Handles can be attached to the tub or box for ease in lifting. A Colorful Circus Tent OE ae TH, 1 Mormon Handicraft Shop This clever little card table tent can be made for a total cost of $5. The materials needed are 414 yds. Print broadcloth, 2 yds. Pink percale, 14% yds. Green percale, 314 yds. Fringe, 1 bolt bias tape, and 2 felt squares, in different colors, for the flags. To make the tent, cut 12 triangles of pink and green percale (6 of each) 10" across and 23" deep, for-the top. Sew them together, alternating the pink and green. Then cut five widths of 36" material (print broadcloth) 30" in length, for the sides of the tent. Cut out the round windows (8" in diameter) and bind with bias tape. Sew the sides together, leaving an opening for the door. Face the door flaps with pink percale, then bind the door flaps with bias tape. Put a hem in the bottom of the tent. An inch heading is allowed before sewing the sides and top of the tent together. Add fringe. Then cut the flags from the two felt squares and attach to the top of the tent. Hal Rumet A Clever Disguise for a Basketball Hoop Irene Lloyd, Member, General Board of Relief Society idea for tissue paper flowers originated by Darilys Rowe Hill, Ensign Ward, Ensign Stake Hal Rume!} This clever basketball hoop disguise is simple to make, very inexpensive, and very effective. All you need to make it is a bushel basket, spray paint, chicken wire, scrub oak, or other kinds of branches, tissue or crepe paper, and a little bit of imagination. Paint the bushel basket, then stuff the chicken wire into the basket to make a base for holding the oak branches. Stick the oak branches through the wire, and add some tissue paper flowers. To make a flower, take 3 half sheets of tissue paper, fold them in half vertically and cut three scallops on each end. Then take each half, separately, and roll it on a broom handle and then crush it up together, to make the veins of the petals. Tie the three halves together in the middie with wire, and then open up the sheets of tissue paper to form the rounded petal flower. Tie to a scrub oak branch. 926 eee Red and Green for the Holiday Table Halt Rumel A lace tablecloth was placed over a green undercloth to make the effective "groundwork" for a festive design using holly and other greenery, accented with the deep red of carnations and apples (both real and artificial apples were used). Artificial cherries could be substituted for use in a similar design. The tall silver epergne, with matching serving dishes and candelabra (with red candles) make a pleasing harmony. A crystal or a milk glass epergne could be used effectively. Baskets of small slices of fruit cake and pecan roils, wrapped in colored cellophane and tied with red and green ribbon were placed on the serving table, and were presented to the guests as favors. 927 ' f ""Inner-Glow'' Glass and Resin Lamps Joy N. Hulme Fiber-glass and Poly-paste Lamp made by Lila N. Blanchard Inner-glow Resin Lamps made by Joy N. Hulme Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts wit (Instructio are sizes Choose Colors h or Provide NS are for 4 small Ty light — 4" for hanging I amps Ssy4", and table lamp base 6" x heses 16") ly high. In Parent DECEMBER 1965 dark spots on it. Always keep glass covered when pounding; break it inside a paper bag or between lintless cloth on a hard surface. When pieces of the desired sizes are reached (dime to nickel sizes for small lamps; up to fiftycent size for large lamps) sift the "sand"' out with a course strainer or screen. You will need about four pounds (10; 13) of prepared glass. Place the glass in a strong shoe box and mix with an old spoon. Wash in ammonia - water (no soap) and dry thoroughly before using. Setting Up the Mold Cover the core by wrapping mylar tightly around it and secure the mylar with tape tabs. Remove the core and run a long piece of 34'' heavy-duty tape along the inside of the mylar tube. Remove tabs. Trim mylar so that only a small overlap remains. Replace on core. Roll the metal strip, overlapping the ends until the desired diameter 4" (514"; 6") is reached. Hold in place with tabs, and then fasten securely with three long overlapping strips of tape along the seam (these should be carried over the end and three or four inches to the inside of the cylinder). Put mylar inside and, making sure it fits tightly, secure with tabs on inside. Remove and fasten with strip of tape on outside. Remove tabs and replace in the mold. Place core near center of base. Place cylinder over it, keeping the seams at the back; adjust so that the thickness of the walls will be the same all around. Place a pencil mark on the base where the front and side edges of the cylinder should be. Remove the cylinder. Pour melted paraffin into base around the core. Quickly place the cylinder into wax, matching it to the pencil marks. Let set until wax is hard. Pouring the Lamp Have all materials close at hand on newspaper or foil; the glass in a flat box with a spoon to your right; mold in front of you; resin, catalyst (the hardening agent for the resin); measuring cup (a peanut butter jar with measurements is good for this); mixing can (quart juice can), and stick for stirring 930 4" x 20" dowel or equivalent) to your left. Mix one pint of liquid resin with a short 14 oz. Of catalyst (or measure as indicated by instruction on product), and stir well. Pour into mold one or two cups at a time, depending on the size of the lamp. Stir glass and put it, a tablespoon at a time, all around the lamp, being extremely careful that the pieces do not slip between the mylar lining and the mold. Pack glass tightly by tapping with the stirring stick. Repeat until metal mold is full, making sure all the glass is covered with resin. As you near the top, mix and pour in less resin, so that you do not fill it too full. Let the lamp set at least 24 hours. Removing Mold Knock off the base by tapping with a hammer. Cut tape along the seam and peel the outer mold and mylar lining away. Holding lamp securely, remove the core by tapping with a hammer on top. Remember this piece is tapered. And will come out only through the bottom. Clean up pieces of mold and save to be used again. The lamp is now ready for wiring. Wiring An electrician can do this for you or provide you with the materials to do it yourself. Only the sockets and globes will be mentioned here. The small lamp takes an intermediate socket and 5" tube globe to fit it (25 watt). The hanging lamp will need to be drilled to accomodate a spider assembly for hanging. It needs a regular size socket and 5" 40 watt globe. The table lamp uses a regular socket and 11" 40 watt globe to light the base. FIBERGLASS AND POLY-PASTE LAMPS Select papier-mache forms of the shape you wish from a hobby shop, or from your home (pasteboard cartons, beach balls, etc), or you can cut and combine the basic shapes in many ways. Lamps are made in as many sections as necessary for molds to come out (usually two). Do not forget you will have to replace the globe so leave an opening large enough. Dip the molds in melted paraffin until they are covered with at least two coats. After this has cooled, cover the outside surface with mold release (available at hobby shops). Cut fiberglass reinforcing material to fit the form, using wedge-shaped pieces to fit tapered shapes. Use rubber gloves or talcum powder if your skin is sensitive to the glass fiber. Mix a paper cupful of resin and over catalyze it (15 drops per ounce). With an old brush, paint this resin over the glass fiber, saturating it. Do this with all parts of the mold. Set on wax paper and let dry about one-half hour. At this time the resin should be in the gel stage, and you can clean off excess from the edges with scissors or a knife. When resin is dry, apply poly-paste (thickened resin). Color (with poly-dye) enough poly- "INNER-GLOW' GLASS AND RESIN LAMPS paste to do entire lamp as it is hard to match the color. Catalyze small quantities at a time as you use it. Spread poly-paste on the form and press in decorations as you do. These may be glass pieces, cast resin pieces, shells, marbles, plastic flowers, etc. Leave some large areas near the edges uncovered until after you have joined the pieces so the seam won't show. After the poly-paste is hard, carefully pry the forms away from the molds. Join the parts together with poly-paste and finish the uncovered parts. Let dry completely before wiring. (lf the materials for making the lamps described in this article are not available in local shops, they can be purchased either in person or by mail from the craft and hobby shops which advertise in The Relief Society Magazine.) | AM A FISH POND Verda F. Burton (Continued from Page 914) Directions: 1. Turn selvage up 1 inch around the bottom to thread wire for hoop. PwWhN Measure 16 inches above, mark with ruler, and make a 1-inch tuck for the next hoop. Measure 12 inches above, and make a second I-inch tuck for upper hoop. Cut for desired skirt length; make 20 darts 3 inches deep at waist, tapering to nothing at second tuck to make less bulk at waist. 5. Make a 1-inch hem around the top and thread with twill tape to tie at waist. 6. Sew on pockets, making sure you skip over tucks. 7. Sew up side and run wire through tucks. The girls will love to pay their money and choose a pocket from this old-fashioned doll. A clown suit, a companion to the doll, is fun for the boys' choice of pockets. It was made by Irene L. Heusser of Sunnyvale Ward, California. She used a white sheet jor the suit and added bright-colored pockets, with a large red ruffle around the top. These two living dolls will really make a hit at a bazaar. Balloons tied to the shoulders or carried in the hands add a festive note. Darts vA T Vad Viv ¥_¥ tuck tuck selvage length of sheet CHAPTER 8 (CONCLUSION) Shirley Thulin @ Joan hurried towards Doctor Niles' office. In the last hour she had changed her mind back and forth a dozen times about resigning. She was hurrying now so she wouldn't change it again. She looked up as David fell in step with her. "Boy, where do you get all your energy this early in the morning?" he asked. "I've been chasing you clear down the hall. Tom wants you." "T'll see him on my rounds," she said. "He said he needs you right away... Is something wrong, Miss Morgan?" "I... I guess I could see him now, did he say what he wants?" "No, but he sure is one happy guy these days, thanks to you." "Don't forget, you thought of getting him to go to school." "Yes, but you convinced him," he laughed. "See you later." Joan hesitated a moment be- 932 fore going into Tom's room. She wanted to be in command of herself when she talked to him. He must not know she was leaving the hospital. "Hello, Tom. Today's the big day, isn't it?" "Yes, in about an hour, so I wanted to be sure I got to see you before I went." "About an hour? So soon?" "Yes, I was going tonight with Doctor Desmond and Kathy, but my mother and my uncle are coming for me." "Well, how nice. I'll be missing you, Tom. You'll write to me, won't you?" "T'll come to see you every time I come to town." "That... That will be nice." "Miss Morgan... Did you know about Doctor Desmond and Kathy?" "Yes, I know... You?" "Oh, you can learn a lot of things if you just keep your eyes who told and ears open. You like him, don't you?" "Doctor Desmond is a very fine doctor." "IT mean you really like him... Don't you? He likes you, too." "Tom, I haven't had breakfast yet, and I have loads of work to do...." "Miss Morgan, are you planning to be an old maid?" Tom grinned. "'T'om!"' "You know, sometimes I wonder what would have happened to me, if you hadn't come here. Do you remember how mad I used to get at you?" "Yes, I remember." "T used to think, what does she know about it? But you know what made me start to believe the things you were telling me?" "No, what?" "One day you smiled at me. It was the day you told me I was going to have my casts taken off. I like it when you smile, Miss Morgan." Joan was embarrassed. She tried to joke. "Is it that far between smiles?" "Y've only seen you smile a couple of times. You're almost as bad as Doctor Niles. He doesn't smile very often, but he's a real nice guy. Miss Morgan, what would you do if everybody kept talking about two people and you wanted to tell them they had everything all wrong, I mean, how would you go about it?" "Now there's a question that doesn't make sense at all." "Well, I mean... Everybody thinks that Doctor Niles is an old grouch and he really isn't. He just never shows what he's really thinking." "How can you tell?" RING AROUND HER HEART ''Because he comes in here lots and talks." "He does?" "Yes. And then everybody thinks you... Well, that you are the same way, but you're not. They even thought you didn't care when Joey died, but I knew you did." Tom was very thoughtful. "And now Kathy's getting to be that way too...." "Tom, sometimes things happen...." She was thinking about what Doctor Desmond had said about the steel band around her heart. ""People change, Tom." "Can they ever change back again?" "Sometimes. Are you all packed, Tom?" Joan changed the subject. "Have been since last night. Kathy helped me." "Are you going to start school this quarter?" "I hope to. David's going to help me.... If only I can pass the entrance exams." "I'm sure you can." "We're going to ask Mom if David can stay with us at the farm on week ends and we'll room together in town. We may live right on the campus."' "Oh, Tom, that would be great. You make me wish I were starting back to school. It's always so exciting... The begining of a new school year." Joan left after a few minutes. Her goodbye was brief, and when Tom promised to come and see her often, she didn't have the heart to tell him she wouldn't be there. As she went towards Doctor Niles' office, she recalled what she had said to Tom a few moments before. Beginnings were always exciting. When she began to 933 DECEMBER 1965 be a nurse, it was exciting. When she had begun her job at Hillcrest, it was exciting... And now it would be exciting to begin somewhere else. She tapped at the door and entered at his request. He was busy with a stack of papers. When he looked up, she couldn't say a word. "Yes?" his voice was the same as it was the first day she had come to his office. So cold and impersonal. His eyes were the same. There was a time when she thought she had read some fondness for her in his eyes, but not now. "Doctor Niles, I have come to talk to you... About... I want to resign." The Doctor put his pen down and looked at her for a moment. "Why, Miss Morgan?" "T... I feel that I have lost my effectiveness here... I. "Where do you plan to locate?" "J... I don't exactly know. That is...' and she felt her cheeks grow hot. She remembered all the weeks of planning and checking she had done before choosing Hillcrest, and this time she hadn't even given a thought as to where she might go. "Maybe you just need a little rest... A vacation...." "No. I don't need a vacation. I just need to get away from here." Her eyes were burning with unshed tears, but she stood there unflinching, holding them back. Doctor Niles looked at her a long moment then, pen poised, and looking down at his papers, he told her it was, of course, her prerogative, "T'll draw up the necessary papers," he said, and went back to the work on his desk, thereby dismissing her. 934 Joan felt faint. She somehow let herself out of his office and took a step or two down the hall. The feeling of anger boiled within her. What did I expect him to say? She asked herself. But she knew... She had hoped he would give her an argument and coax her to stay. He hadn't, and now she was angry and hurt and more mixed up than ever. She started to go to her room, but changed her mind. If I go to my room, I'll just give in to my tears, she thought, and I'm not going to. I'm going to stay on the job and do the things I have to do and tonight I'll write some letters to some hospitals. "Joan." It was Kathy. "Yes?" She was surprised at the tone of her own voice. It sounded just like Doctor Niles. "T... Wondered if you'd been to see Tom. He's leaving this morning." "Yes, I saw him. He's looking fine, isn't he?" "Joan, did Dean say anything to you this morning... I mean about...." "About the two of you? Yes, he said he was going to talk you into marrying him. I can tell he already has." "Yes... It didn't take him long to talk me into it, did it?" Kathy smiled and her eyes were soft. "He proposed over a pile of charts in the chart room." They both laughed. "That's wonderful, Kathy. I know you'll be very happy. He's a wonderful fellow." "Do you really mean that? That you are happy for me?" "Of course, why do you ask that?" "Because I thought.. You were in love with him.". That "There was a time when I thought I was, or at least that I - could be, but no, Kathy. I'm not in love with your fabulous Doctor Desmond." "Then you will be my maid of honor? We're going to have the biggest wedding ever." "Thanks, Kathy." She didn't tell her that she might not be around for the wedding. All during the morning Joan had a little nagging in the back of her mind. When she let herself think about the scene in Doctor Niles' office, she was angered, and when she thought of Kathy's question about whether she was in love with Dean, she had a funny little pleased feeling that kept coming forward and. Making her feel as she used to just before Christmas when she was a child. I feel like something is about to happen, she kept telling herself, and yet she knew that Doctor Niles was sitting in his office getting her resignation papers ready. He's probably enjoying every moment of it, too, she thought. He didn't even care one bit that I was leaving. As the morning wore on, the two emotions kept coming and going until by lunch time, she was in a highly nervous state. She realized she hadn't had anything to eat, and she certainly didn't feel hungry now, but somehow, maybe from habit, she found herself going into the cafeteria. Kathy and Doctor Desmond were in their favorite corner. Suddenly, seeing the two of them together made her jumbled thoughts straighten themselves out. All of a sudden she knew why she was so angry at Doctor Niles. She knew why she was glad she had been able to tell Kathy RING AROUND HER HEART she wasn't in love with Doctor Desmond. She was thankful to Tom for what he had said about Doctor Niles not ever showing what he really felt.: She was walking down the hall towards Doctor Niles' office with a new spring in her step. She was frightened, a little, but she knew she had to say what was in her heart, because she knew he never would. She almost changed her mind when she put her hand up to knock. Her throat went dry when he said to come in. Doctor Niles was standing by the window, and he turned towards her when she came in. She looked at him. His eyes were different than she had ever seen them before. She suddenly wished she hadn't come. "Yes?" he said. "It's about my resignation. I... I've changed my mind." "Are you sure?" "Yes, quite sure. I...." She tried to read his face, hoping to see something, anything to let her know she had it figured out right, but she could tell nothing. "I "What is it, Miss Morgan?" "Have you heard about Kathy and Doctor Desmond?" 935 DECEMBER 1965 "Yes, he came in and talked to me for quite some time last night." "I'm very happy for them." Joan was afraid she was sounding like a schoolgirl, but she couldn't leave, without Saying what she had come to Say. "Doctor Desmond and Kathy found love, and there for awhile, I was afraid they wouldn't. I mean the way Kathy was acting and all." She stopped talking, hoping he would Say something to help her, but he didn't. "You know, people can't go through life like that. As Kathy was beginning to be.... What I mean is the more a person tries to be hard and keep from getting hurt, the more that person gets hurt - and also hurts everyone else, too. You just sort of have to take the hurts as they come along and -.. And...." Joan began to feel the cool tears spill over and down her hot cheeks. Doctor Niles came over to her. "IT have known that for a long time. Today, when you came, J -..." He went back to his desk but he didn't sit down again. "Joan, I have been so wrong for so long that I didn't even know how to start being right. When you came in here this morning I wanted to tell you.... The bottom of my world dropped out from under me, and I just sat there and didn't Say anything to you...." "IT know, I know just how you felt.... T've done the same thing." "When you told me you wanted to go, I thought it was because of Kathy and Doctor Desmond. It wasn't the reason?" "No. I just wanted to run again. Trying to find someplace to belong... Trying to find someone to....": Doctor Niles came around to the front of the desk. He took Joan in his arms quickly, as if he were afraid he would change his mind if he didn't hold her close right then. "Joan, do you think you can teach me to smile? You did once... Remember?" "Yes, I remember...." And she did remember that smile... And she remembered the warmth she had always felt whenever she was with him. "Will you teach me, Joan, will you?" "Yes... Oh, yes." "Good. Then I've decided to accept your resignation," "You... You what?" "You won't have time to work in the hospital, you are going to be so busy being my wife. You will, won't you?" "Oh, yes, if...." "If what?" "If you'll take the ring from around my heart." He smiled then, and it was a wonderful smile. Abstractionist Ethel Jacobson Modern art From the start Was the field our precious Cherub chose, 936 You see, at three Already she Does finger painting With her toes! OY MEE, 4) Lesson Department THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 70—An Introduction to the Word of Wisdom (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89:1-3) For First Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To understand that the Word of Wisdom is a commandment. INTRODUCTION On the 27th of February 1833, the Prophet Joseph Smith received the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom. Latter-day Saints know this section in the Doctrine and Covenants as the one which emphasizes certain temporal benefits to be received by the members of the Church who live by its teachings. To think of this revelation as benefiting the observer physically is erroneous, because there are rich spiritual blessings to be derived from its observance. BACKGROUND As far as we know, most of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants came in answer to inquiry by the Prophet Joseph Smith of the Lord. President Brigham Young gives us the following information.... 1 think I am as well acquainted with the circumstances which led to the giving of the Word of Wisdom as any man in the Church, although I was not present at the time to witness them. The first school of the prophets was held in a small room situated over the Prophet Joseph's kitchen, in a house which belonged to Bishop Whitney, and which was attached to his store, which store probably might be about fifteen feet square.... The brethren came to that place for hundreds of miles to attend school in a little room probably no larger than eleven by fourteen. When they assembled together in this room after breakfast, the first thing they did was to light their pipes, and, while smoking, talk about the great things of the 937 DECEMBER 1965 kingdom, and spit all over the room, and as soon as the pipe was out of their mouths a large chew of tobacco would then be taken. Often when the Prophet entered the room to give the school instructions he would find himself in a cloud of tobacco smoke. This, and the complaints of his wife at having to clean so filthy a floor, made the Prophet think upon the matter, and he inquired of the Lord relating to the conduct of the Elders in using tobacco, and the revelation known as the Word of Wisdom was the result of his inquiry (Journal of Discourses 12:158). FOR THE SAINTS IN ZION Section 89 is a_ revelation whose title was given by the Lord. As pointed out above by Brigham Young, the Word of Wisdom was given for the benefit of the council of high priests assembled in Kirtland. Notwithstanding the revelation was given to these persons, it was to go also to the saints in Zion, and to the Church. A Word of Wisdom, for the benefit of the council of high priests, assembled in Kirtland, and the church, and also the saints in Zion— To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days (D&C 89:1-2). NOT BY COMMANDMENT To help the saints realize the need to observe this law, many of the living prophets have emphasized that the words in verse two establish that this revelation is to be lived by all Latter-day Saints. Elder George F. Richards said the following on the subject:..- I would call your attention to a part of the second paragraph in the 89th section, which reads as follows, referring to this revelation; it "was 938 given by revelation, and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all Saints in the last days." We have accepted Joseph Smith as the prophet, seer, and revelator of this last dispensation, and in doing so we accept these revelations as being the word of the Lord to us. Here the Lord expresses His will, in very plain terms, that this revelation is given "showing forth the order and will of God." If for no other reason, this should be sufficient for any consistent Latterday Saint to induce him to yield implicit obedience unto this word. I can think of no gospel subject that will apply directly to more people among us as Latter-day Saints than this Word of Wisdom, unless it may be the principle of obedience, which includes yielding obedience unto this word; or repentance, which also includes turning away from these things which are forbidden, and obeying the will of the Lord (Conference Report, October 1908, pp. 87-88). Elder John A. Widtsoe ccmments upon this subject by asking this question:... But if a law is given by revelation showing the order and will of God should it not be more binding than a command because it calls for man's understanding cooperation? (Joseph Smith, page 199). If a Latter-day Saint believes that his non-observance of the Word of Wisdom is justified because of the words "not by commandment or _ constraint," it would seem to put it in a category of the slothful who will lose his reward. Here is what the Lord said in 1831: For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned (D&C 58:28-29). In view of the foregoing scriptures, is there a real difference between the "will" of God to his children and '"commandment''? The same Being who gave Section 89 said this in the Sermon on the Mount: Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven (Matt. 7:21). Perfection is the goal of the Latter-day Saint. (3 Nephi 12: 48.) Sometimes it is maintained that one cannot be perfect in this life, but, as we have been told many times, there are areas of gospel living in which one can be perfect. (Lesson 38, Relief Society Magazine, December 1961.) Elder George F. Richards continued his remarks quoted previously in this manner:... In our onward march towards perfection we will not leave the first principles of the Gospel of the Master, but will continue to observe them. In the Church, we, the teachers, are placed for the express purpose of bringing the people up to a knowledge of the Son of God, showing them the way unto perfection. I desire to say - here that we never can reach perfection until we yield obedience unto this simple word of the Lord. We are required to do the will of God, at any sacrifice. I have in mind the word of the Lord upon this subject, contained in the revelations: "Let no man be afraid to lay down his life for my sake; for whoso layeth down his life for my sake, shall find it again, and whoso is not willing to lay down his life for my sake is not my disciple" [D&C 103: 27-28]. We are not asked now, my brethren and sisters, to lay down our lives to show our obedience to the Lord, and our worthiness to be His disciples, but we are asked by the Lord to abstain from the use of strong drinks and tobacco, in every form, also to abstain from the use of meats to excess. This is a simple requirement. LESSON DEPARTMENT How can we hope to have faith to lay down our lives, how can we claim to be willing to do so, while our lives and actions, every day, show to our neighbors and to the Lord that we are not willing to rid ourselves of the use of strong drink or tobacco—those things which are forbidden of the Lord? Let us be consistent with ourselves and our professions of faith (Conference Report, October 1908, page 88). Is it possible to love the Lord with all our hearts, with all our might, mind, and strength, as commanded, and not follow him as a true disciple? (D&C 59:5.) Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, in a commentary on this first great commandment, wrote: We have our decisions to make each day. We may be halfhearted Latterday Saints; we may be part tithepayers, part observers of the Word of Wisdom, part keepers of the Sabbath day, part supporters of the leaders and program. Of the Church. But that is not the way the Lord would like it. The decision we must make in our own best interest is that we do our best—for ourselves, and for him. But in doing our best for him, we must forget our selfish interests, 'for he that loseth his life for my sake, shall find it" (Your Faith and You, page 260). The true disciple of the Master is known as one who follows him by obediently keeping his law. (D&C 41:5-6.) TEMPORAL SALVATION Salvation in this life and in the life to come is dependent upon what one does in observing the will of the Lord, as we have already learned. President Brigham Young emphasized this truth in the following way:... Salvation is an individual operation. I am the only person that can possibly save myself. When salvation is sent to me, I can reject or receive it. In receiving it, I yield im- 939 DECEMBER 1965 plicit obedience and submission to its great Author throughout my life, and to those whom He shall appoint to instruct me; in rejecting it, I follow the dictates of my own will in preference to the will of my Creator (Journal of Discourses 1:312). In order that none might say that he or she is excluded from the necessity of doing the will of the Lord, the Word of Wisdom was given for the "temporal salvation of all saints in the last days" (D&C 89:2). The leadership of the Church has counseled the members in all kinds of activities relating to their daily lives. The gospel is not to be lived only one day of the week. (Ibid., 59:11.) The Word of Wisdom, tithing, fast ~ offerings, the Welfare Plan—all of these—may be considered as directly affecting our temporal welfare because they pertain to activities which are a part of our earth-labors or which relate to physical salvation. The true significance of temporal salvation was made known early in this dispensation. In essence it is: the temporal welfare of the saint is vital to his spiritual salvation. Actually, there is no difference between the temporal and spiritual laws of God. (Ibid., 29:34- 36.) This sublime truth led President Joseph F. Smith to say: You must continue to bear in mind that the temporal and the spiritual are blended. They are not separate. One cannot be carried on without the other, so long as we are here in mortality. WORD OF WISDOM AND SPIRITUALITY In harmony with the forgoing information, other "prophets, seers and revelators'" of this dispensation have voiced the truth 940 that the Word of Wisdom is spiritual. Some ways in which obedience is good and disobedience to this spiritual law brings harmful effects were given by President Stephen L Richards, as follows: Every commandment of God is spiritual in nature. There are no carnal commandments. We have learned this from modern revelation. While the commandments have effect upon the body and temporal things they are all in essence spiritual. The Word of Wisdom is spiritual. It is true that it enjoins the use of deleterious substances and makes provision for the health of the body. But the largest measure of good derived from its observance is in increased faith and the development of more spiritual power and wisdom. Likewise, the most regrettable and damaging effects of its infractions are spiritual, also. Injury to the body may be comparatively trivial to the damage to the soul in the destruction of faith and the retardation of spiritual growth. So I say, every commandment involves a spiritual growth. So I say, every commandment involves a spiritual principle (Conference Report, April 1949, page 141). For those who think of the Word of Wisdom as being a dietary law which promotes good health, and that its spiritual effects do not count as a requisite to eternal life, the foregoing thoughts certainly suggest otherwise. In addition, President Heber J. Grant pointed out that the observer of this law will find increased knowledge, as promised in verse 19 of Section 89: No man who breaks the Word of Wisdom can gain the same amount of knowledge and intelligence in this world as the man who obeys that law. I don't care who he is or where he comes from, his mind will not be as clear, and he cannot advance as far and as rapidly and retain his power as much as he would if he obeyed the Word of Wisdom. (Conference Report, April 1925, page 10). WORD OF WISDOM A COMMANDMENT As early as September 9, 1851, President Brigham Young before a conference of the Church put a motion to the congregation that they discontinue the use of tea, coffee, tobacco, and whiskey. The motion was carried unanimously. (Millennial Star 14:35.) In the August 1867 conference, President Young referred to the last conference "when the Lord told him by the Holy Spirit to call upon the saints to observe the Word of Wisdom, and that they who did not observe it would increase in the spirit of the world and become darkened in mind. (Journal of Discourses 12:117.) President George A. Smith, in 1871, said that a person loses the Spirit and grows cold in his religion when he does not keep the Word of Wisdom. (Jbid., 14:212.) In the October 1880 general conference the membership unanimously voted to acept the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants as binding upon the Church. The First Presidency composed of President Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and David O. McKay, in the October conference 1942, said: "|.. We reinvoke obedience to God's law of health given us by God Himself... We urge the Saints to quit Meiilinis with this law and so to live it that we may claim its promises (Improvement Era, Nov. 1942, page 687). The Word of Wisdom is a commandment! WHAT OF THE FUTURE? "Who's on the Lord's Side, Who?" The answer to this quesLESSON DEPARTMENT tion is left with the individual. As pointed out earlier, the disciple of the Lord will keep his commandments and ever work for the cause of Zion. As to the individual, the Lord has held out eternal life for the faithful. But what of the Church which is composed of individuals? Definite obAsectives or goals have been presented by the Lord.... Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations (D&C 115:5).. That the church may stand independent above all other creatures beneath the celestial world (Jbid., 78:14). When the Saints were driven from Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord declared that this was due, in part, to the transgressions of the people—speaking of the Church and not of individuals— and they were not united as required by the law of the celestial kingdom. In order to realize the grand objective of establishing Zion on the American continent, as commanded, it was necessary that this be done through living the law. (Ibid., 105:1-5.) The keeping of the commandments, including the Word of Wisdom, will bring sanctification to the Church and exaltation to the individual. QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Under what circumstances was the Word of Wisdom given? 2. Give several reasons why "the order and will of the Lord" requires obedience to that will by the members of the Church. 3. In what way is the observance of the Word of Wisdom related to the goal of perfection? 4. Name some ways in which observance of the Word of Wisdom brings spiritual benefits. How does individual obedience to the Word of Wisdom affect the Church? On 941 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 70—"'Cease to Find Fault One With Another' (D&C 88:124). For First Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To emphasize the importance of building and uplifting others by focusing attention upon their good qualities. @ One of the most noble accomplishments in this world is to exercise a constructive, uplifting influence upon others. To touch a soul and to encourage that soul to reach for loftier heights is far more important than to build monuments of stone or steel. No one of us is without influence. All of us touch the lives of those about us for good or for ill. If we concentrate upon and emphasize the good qualities that another possesses, we not only enlarge and ennoble our own character, but we help another to live upward and outward and to develop the best that is within her. On the other hand, if we seek to find fault we soon find that our own personalities become warped. Our criticism, moreover, has a down-grading effect upon the person with whom we have found fault. 942 In speaking of faultfinding, President McKay has said that each of us should perform his duty honestly and conscientiously. We should not interfere with another who is doing something in a different way. When we spend our time finding fault with others, we neglect our own responsibilities and our souls become embittered, our minds distorted, our judgments faulty, and our spirits depressed. (Pathways to Happiness, page 86.) That is why the Lord has commanded us to "Cease to find fault one with another." That is why the wise Solomon, in describing seven things that the Lord hates, pointed out that five of the seven are directly connected with faultfinding. Solomon listed these as, "a lying tongue... An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in run- ning to mischief, A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren" (Proverbs 6:17-19). Our Father in heaven has placed great emphasis on the value of a soul. He knows the potential that lies within us. He 'knows, as his sons and daughters, we may become perfect, even as he is perfect, if we concentrate on and magnify the fine qualities that each of us possesses. To do this, we should form the habit of looking only for the good qualities in those with whom we associate, rather than seeing all their faults. It is easy for us to slip into the error of faultfinding. Often in attempting to cover up our own weaknesses, we may try to justify or rationalize them by looking for the same faults in others. This thought is expressed in the anonymous poem which has become a Latter-day Saint hymn: Let each man learn to know himself; To gain that knowledge let him labor, Improve those failings in himself Which he condemns so in his neighbor. How lenient our own faults we view, And conscience's voice adeptly smother, Yet, oh, how harshly we review The selfsame failings in another! Example sheds a genial ray Of light which men are apt to borrow, So first improve yourself today And then improve your friends tomorrow. (Hymns, Church of Jesus-Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 91) The story is told about a church edifice in Germany which LESSON DEPARTMENT is famous for its beautiful stainedglass windows. These windows, when viewed with the clear rays of the sun shining through them, are marvelous indeed. Many people are touched by their beauty. Yet, many other visitors who do not take the time to look at the windows from the right angle, or who see them on a dark and foggy day, are disillusioned and dissatisfied. They see nothing to admire and only find fault with the church building. So it is with many of us. In evaluating our friends' and neighbors' personalities and characters, we fail to view their accomplishments in the sunlight and glow of charity. We do not take the time and patience to look into their hearts. We let our vision of them become clouded and dimmed through misunderstanding. Let us "cease to find fault one with another" and look only for the good in others. Let us realize that often the mistakes of another might have been our own had we been influenced by similar circumstances. Let us oft speak kind words to and of each other. Let us seek to build up one another, to give encouragement and _ appreciation when it is due. Let us always remember the words of the Lord when he said, "Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over... For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again" (Luke 6:38). 943 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness For Second Meeting, March 1966 Specific help on different cleaning schedules will be presented in the next lesson, which will be a continuation of "Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness." INTRODUCTION ber optimal health and happiness, Is there anything more satisfyEvery Latter-day _Saint homeing than a clean house—sparkmaker should strive to set a ling windows, immaculately clean standard of cleanliness of which corners and baseboards, fresh, she can be proud—a standard sweet-smelling beds, and beauti. Which says, "I love my home. J ful clean floors? Cleanliness can want my children to remember be achieved only through effec. A house that shines." tive planning, know-how, and The homemaker _ Should aswork. Sume the initiative In determinRegard housework as a priving the standard she feels is lege and a creative experience. Consistent _with her Particular Look upon the skills of cleaning family. This will be affected by a house not as goals in themthe Individual family Setup: (1) Selves, but as a means to securfamily members — the number, ing comfort, beauty, and happy ages, their health, Interests, acrelationships in the home. Tivities, and how they share cleaning responsibilities; (2) the SET YOUR STANDARD size and Condition of the house; A standard is your tule for (3) the season of the year and you wish to obtain. It goes withand methods used. S 4 Case Study — Determine Possible housekeeping done in the home cleaning Standards for the following should Imsure each family memfamily: Father who is ward clerk; mother who is ward Relief Society work meeting leader and community leader; John who is seventeen, plays basketball for his high school, works in a grocery store on Saturday doing odd jobs, and assists with the Boy Scout troop; Annette who is fifteen, plays in the school orchestra, has lots of school activities, and teaches Primary; David who is twelve, all boy, and is trying to advance as fast as he can in the Boy Scout program; and Mary who is six, loves pets, and is in first grade. All are healthy and have agreed to share the cleaning of the house. The house, an older home, is modest but adequate with the average-sized kitchen, small dining room, a living room, three bedrooms, and a bath. It has an unfinished basement. The house is in good condition but needs redecorating. The season is late winter or early spring in a temperate climate. The tank-type vacuum cleaner is fairly new; the other equipment is in average condition but of rather poor quality. The mother doesn't seem to find time to try new methods of cleaning. (Limit discussion to no more than four minutes.) PLAN YOUR WORK WORK YOUR PLAN A busy mother who maintained a clean, sparkling home and yet had time for her husband and family and who enriched her life with Church activities and some civic responsibilities confided, "Housekeeping by the inch is a cinch, but housekeeping by the ward is hard."'* A regular work plan or schedule will avoid many hours of laborious cleaning. The kitchen range is a case in point. Quick cleaning each day, wiping up spills carefully as they occur, and weekly attention will avoid hours of tedious scouring and cleaning after months of neglect. You may *Quoted by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler at Utah State Home Economics Association Convention, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 1956. LESSON DEPARTMENT not always be able to adhere to a schedule (and it is vital that it possess flexibility), but make one and write it down on paper or on a bulletin board where you can consult it each day. It will help you to think more clearly and find better solutions to problems. Following a schedule leads to establishing proper habits; it eliminates frustrating little decisions which must be made constantly. In making your plan be certain that it is family-centered. Remember, you can be master of the situation. You have the schedule; the schedule should not have you! In determining your plans carefully consider: (1) What needs to be cleaned, (2) how often it needs to be cleaned, (3) how long it will take, and (4) the order which is best. Again, keep your' standard high and consider the conditions in your home. HINTS THAT HELP 1. Creative management and teaching are jobs of the homemaker. How can you get everyone in the act? Maintaining a shining home is the responsibility of each member of the family. How might the counseling period of the Family Home Evening be used to discuss cleaning problems in the home? 2. Alternate light and heavy work, jobs that are fun and jobs that are tedious. 3. Study your working ways; try to improve them. 4. Buy articles and _ furnishings with upkeep and cleaning in mind. 5. Clean up and put away tools and equipment as you go. SUMMARY The Lord said, "And let all things be done in cleanliness before me" (D&C 42:41). In what ways can a clean, neat house make for greater 945 DECEMBER 1965 spirituality in the home? Be an imaginative and creative housekeeper. Think ahead, study, and work—if the schedule fails, try again. Devise better ways of polishing the silver, of splashing in the dishpan, of making your hooked rug a vision of beauty. Build a lovely physical environment; it will inspire your family;: it will be self-fulfillment for you, the keeper of the house. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT: Challenge each sister carefully to evaluate her own work schedule. Challenge her to attempt to remedy one or two cleaning problems during the coming month. SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3 (No. 15 in series)—Personal Standards For Third Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To point out the importance of personal standards LESSON 14 FOLLOW-UP The Home Doing suggestion concluding lesson 14 was the rereading of the lesson or, if available, the reading of the 1966 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons 1, 2, 3, and 4. Several expressions from the class members as to points clarified by this reading might be 'helpful to all class members. INTRODUCTION This lesson deals with personal standards and must, of necessity, be self-analyzing. It aims to call our collective attention to the need and the value of an individual review of one's personal standards as they relate to the 946 in the development of character. Principles of the gospel, and to the development of one's character, which we may say is the total result of one's beliefs, attitudes, and actions. THE SELF-IMAGE Although all may not be aware of the fact, each of us possesses, within the realm of the conscious or subconscious mind, a selfimage. This is the image of the person we believe that we are or would like to be; the person we hope others recognize us to be. An early and obvious manifes-' tation of this image is that of the small child who makes be; lieve he is a policeman, an In- dian, a parent, or perhaps a friend. He may identify so closely with the object of his admiration as to follow closely even specific mannerisms. Years of experience, however, may and should discipline an individual to a self-image more in harmony with the realities of his particular life. It is a fact, nevertheless, that a_ self-image persists and is influenced by the principles in which a person believes and by the standard of performance which his beliefs dictate. With this idea in mind, how important is the self-image in motivating or restraining our actions? Often we hear such comments as the following: 1. I could never do such a thing. It just wouldn't be like me. 2. I couldn't do that. If I did, I would not be able to live with myself. 3. I do this service because I believe in its purpose and value. The principle involved is warp and woof of my very being. Do not such comments indicate how important is the standard of values we incorporate in our self-image? Let us not become discouraged in striving to attain the ideal self-image. HOW WOULD YOU ACT? Analyze the following situation and, in keeping with your own personal standard, indicate with a check what you would do. If a person whom you know is being gossiped about, would you: A. Listen quietly without comment, although you know that some of the statements are untrue? B. Add further to the gossip? C. Check the trend of disparaging conversation by relating something good about the person? LESSON DEPARTMENT THE BASIC VALUES Personal standards of Christian living must be based upon the commandments of the Lord. They are both source and definition. When questioned by the Pharisee lawyer as to the "great commandment in the law," Jesus answered: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself (Matt. 22:37-39). The Articles of Faith enumerate many specific truths which Latter-day Saints also believe and accept. From the Thirteenth Article we have the following: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men...." How do we rate, individually, in our attitude and belief relative to these personal virtues? Let us consider the virtue of personal honesty. Honesty, no doubt, is a personal virtue included in the moral standard of all of us. How honest, however, are we? How consistent is our performance? In business? In our social life? In our homes? EXAMPLE STORY Robert, age eleven, brings from his friend's home a puzzle game which he says he is quite sure his friend does not wish to keep. His mother explains that unless the game has actually been given to him it is not his to keep. She insists that Robert return the game, which he does. The mother is now satisfied that 947 DECEMBER 1965 her young son understands the meaning of honesty. Some time later Robert announces that he has been asked to give a two-and-one-half-minute talk on the subject, "I Believe in Being Honest." The mother becomes excited with the thought of her son fulfilling this important assignment. She impresses upon him the need to speak clearly and to be neatly dressed, and asks him what he is going to say. "T don't know," Robert answers. "Why don't you write it for me?" Here is a crucial point relative to honesty in this illustrative story. There are alternatives of action which the mother might take: 1. If Robert is mature enough to prepare his talk without assistance, the mother should encourage him to do so. She might, of course, wish to hear the talk before it is given, which would give her an opportunity to see that Robert has the proper understanding of honesty and to clarify any points that may need clarification. 2. If Robert definitely needs his mother's assistance in preparing his talk, she might tell him that the story of his own experience or ideas about being honest, told in his own words, would be helpful to other children who are also learning about honesty. She might add that she will help him if he needs her to do so. She might also remind him that since the title of his talk is "I Believe in_ Being Honest," it should express his own thoughts about honesty. This procedure might help him to recall her recent teaching as to honesty and thus reinforce that teaching. How developing it would be for Robert, thus assisted, to say, "My talk today is called 'I Believe in Being Honest.' My mother is helping me to understand 948 what it means to be honest and why it is important that everyone be honest. She helped me prepare my talk." For Robert, how developing this would be, and for the audience, how refreshing! What is the difference between a mother writing a talk for her child and the child preparing his own talk with the mother's guidance? THEY SAY AND DO NOT How important is it that we live what we believe—that we are true to the personal standard we set for ourselves? This above all: to thine own self be true, And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou can'st not then be false to any man. There is wisdom in these lines by William Shakespeare. There is, however, no statement in all literature comparable to the Savior's denunciation of those who were false to their professed beliefs. Speaking of the lawgivers—the learned religious leaders of his time—he said: The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat: All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do; but do not ye after their works: for they say, and do not (Matt. 23:2, 3). Specific hypocrisies are then listed:... They bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne,... But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers... Their works they do for to be seen of men.. Love the uppermost room at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye devour widows' houses, and for a_ pretence make long prayer.... Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith.... Ye blind guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel (Matt. 23:4-6, 14, 23-24). Are not these words of the Savior as relevant today as when uttered nearly 2,000 years ago? Are we not all guilty, to some degree, of being pretenders to virtues which we really do not possess? Do we not strain at a gnat and swallow a camel? (Enlarge upon small imperfections and ignore a more serious problem?) Do we follow the letter of the law—paying "tithe of mint and anise and cummin" and omit the weightier matters of the law? (Failing to use mercy and faith in our judgment of one another?) We often may forget that when we fail to live as we profess. To live, we may weaken, even destroy, the faith of others. Mothers may nullify the positive value of their teachings by failing to live according to their expressed beliefs. What might result from such statements as the following: 1. Mother to daughter: "Go to the door, dear, and say I'm not at home." 2. Mother to son: "Why don't you step on the gas? There is no policeman in sight." Jesus forgave the humble and repentant sinner. He paid tribute to Nathanael in these words, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!" (no deceit) (John 1:47). But he spoke with scorn of those who did not live LESSON DEPARTMENT the moral principles to which they claimed belief. THE STATIONARY STANDARD VERSUS THE GROWING STANDARD We grow in wisdom through our experiences and as our understanding of temporal and spiritual laws enlarges. How should this affect our personal standards? (Suggestion: Our standards of belief and what we expect of ourselves by way of performance should rise. Do they always do so?) Note and discuss the following comments which illustrate, by way of contrast, both the stationary and the growing personal standard: 1. I seem to act at times as if I were still a young girl. Why don't I grow up? 2. The experiences of the past year should have made me more generous with other people. But apparently they have not. 3. I once thought that I would never bear my testimony before a group. I didn't think it mattered and I, also, was too timid. But I have seen women grow in ability to express themselves through repeatedly bearing their testimonies. My point of view has changed. I have received many blessings and I am bearing my testimony today to acknowledge the blessings of my Heavenly Father, and I shall do so again. What has happened to the following person's personal standards? 4. Now that I am a member of the Church my ideas regarding personal behavior have changed. It is as if I had suddenly developed a new conscience. I am no longer satisfied with my former performance. FOR HOME DOING Personal Check List 1. Check the qualities listed below which you honestly believe apply to you. 949 DECEMBER 1965 2. Underline the qualities which you think may be in your self-image without ample justification, because you wish they were. 3. Try in even one single area, to lessen the gap between standard of belief and performance. I envision myself as being: honest humble obedient jealous thrifty conservative resourceful timid appreciative creative a worrier generous with others sound in making judgments blessed with leadership ability (name others) FOR DISCUSSION The questions that appear in the lesson, plus these three: 1. Do we frequently acknowledge and commend specific talents of only those from whom we may expect to receive favors? 2. Why is it easy to overrate one's ability and virtues? 3. Is it easy to depreciate. One's personal abilities? IN CONCLUSION We frequently quote the familiar statement ''No man is an island. No man stands alone," for we know that we influence others for good or ill, and, likewise, we are influenced by the attitude, words, and actions of others. It is true, however, that to the extent that each individual will be held responsible for his own life, each does stand alone. Likewise, we are blessed by our own individual worthy thoughts and actions, and not by the virtues of friend or neighbor, however close the association may be. The Latter-day Saint mother will want to consider this fact as she reviews her own personal standards and as she teaches her children in the home. (See D&C 68:25-28.) She will want them to understand how important it is for each one to build worthy ideals, as a basis of the personal standard, and she will want them to realize that to achieve an inner peace one must live in harmony with that standard. For Nancy After a Day Together Vesta N. Fairbairn A friend is forever. As precious as fine-cut crystal, Beautiful as clustered jade grapes and vined leaves, Rich as color—cerise and pink, lavender, blue, and green— Delicate as translucent shells, Lovely as petals—azalea, orchid, rose— Refreshing as mountain spring water, Sustaining as the living rock, Warm as firelight and flame, And more to be cherished. A friend is forever. 950 LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 13—The Place of Suffering in Life—Part I! (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 372-379, 386-396, and 405-419) For Fourth Meeting, March 1966 Objective: To show how hardship and suffering can strengthen character @ The lesson for this month is a continuation of last month's lesson, concerned with the nature of grief and with man's resources in time of suffering, but focusing, more particularly, on the fact that sorrow and hardship are largely what we make them. If we let ourselves be weak and short-sighted, they can destroy faith and corrode character; but if we react with understanding, remembering God's eternal plan for mankind, they can build faith and strengthen character. Four selections are covered by this lesson: two short stories (Mansfield's "The Fly' and Gorky's "Boless''), one short poem (Hopkins's "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord"), and one longer poem (Wordsworth's '"'Michael"'). The literature leader may wish to cover all four selections, or may prefer to concentrate on only one or two or three of the four. A valuable hour could, for example, be spent studying 'Michael' alone. Each leader may choose the selections she feels she can if we respond to them maturely. Teach most effectively for her group. To bring the problem covered by this lesson sharply into focus, I recall an incident still vivid in my memory that occurred in 1944, over twenty years ago. A neighbor who was a prominent leader in the valley where I was living, stood up in fast and testimony meeting one Sunday to say he had no fear for his handsome young son, who was on his way overseas to participate in the World War II invasion of Europe. ''He has always been a good son," said the man, "honest and clean and Church-active. He has just returned from an honorable mission and has been through the temple. I know the Lord will protect him and bring him back to us."' Three weeks later the son was dead, killed in mid-air in a paratroop invasion before he even had time to: set foot on French soil. And the father became a bitter, beaten man! So grief-stricken was he, so shattered in his faith, that he felt the Lord had totally deserted 951 DECEMBER 1965 him and all the world was against him. Moreover, he never recovered from the shock. He withdrew from Church activity, became sullen and brooding in attitude, and died a few years later, still overwhelmed and embittered by the grief he could not comprehend. Such deaths do occur, and we need to be prepared to accept them without collapse of faith and character, even when, in our limited mortal vision, we may not fully understand them. "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord" As explored more fully on pages 394-396 of the text, the problem exposed by this incident and by Gerard Manley Hopkins's poem "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord" should not be ignored. While it may be generally true that righteous people prosper in business and health, all of us also know that sometimes righteous people suffer all manner of earthly hardships and calamities. Business disaster sometimes overtakes the faithful, and the ravages of disease, plus the shock of sudden accidents, cut down saint as well as sinner, and sometimes in the vigor of youth as well as in the feebleness of age. Clean living is not a guarantee that one will never have problems, nor should we expect this. The very purpose of life is to strengthen character through meeting challenges. Moreover, life is everlasting, and the sufferings of mortality are not the same when viewed from the vantage-point of immortality. The rewards of righteous living are ultimately spiritual, not material. Righteousness will not guarantee man against tribulation, but it will fortify his spirit to meet whatever tribulations life 952 offers and to mature his character for the responsibilities of the eternal future. The great reward of righteous living, available to all, is not material prosperity and freedom from hardship, but spiritual peace of mind and the serenity that comes with a free conscience and a testimony of the truth. "The Fly" "The Fly" by Katherine Mansfield is included in the text (see pp. 372-379) and in this month's lesson principally as a powerful, dramatic little story portraying a man who has an unhealthy reaction to grief. Instead of accepting the death of his son and adjusting to it with the passing of years, the man nurses his sorrow to keep it painfully alive so that the grief that once was genuine turns into sentimental self-pity. We, of course, admire a person who loves so deeply that the - memory of a beloved one remains strong long after death has taken the one beloved. We can hardly admire the person, however, who wallows in self-pity and enjoys feeling sorry for himself as the old man in "The Fly" does. If the literature leader chooses to teach this story, she should turn to Out. Of the Best Books, where it is printed in full with a detailed discussion. "Boless"' "Boless"' by the great Russion author Maxim Gorky is also included in this month's lesson. Here our interest centers on the contrast between the huge, homely Polish woman Teresa and the smug, callous, preachy Pan Student. We are touched by the pathetic story of Teresa, that loneliness "4. For compando dainty e are anderstanding, mpathy and uns more easily availmay not have Relief Soci t, Will Because it i to readers so famous that it can ry. And it is d discussion LESSON DEP ARTMENT ory forever, like an incident out of the Old Testament. "Michael" opens with a thirtynine-line introduction which sets explains why he ls writing it: that in a remote mountain valley stones" around which centers an old and moving legend which he goes on to tell the story of the old shepherd Michael. Listen to the words of the poem: Upon the forest-side in Grasmere Vale There dwelt a Shepherd, Michael was his name, An old man, stout of heart, and strong of limb. His bodily frame had been from youth to age Of an unusual strength: his mind was keen, Intense, and frugal, apt for all affairs, And in his shepherd's calling he was prompt And watchful more than ordinary men. Hence had he learned the meaning © all winds, Of blasts of every tone; and, oftentimes, When others heeded not, he heard the South Make subterraneous music, like the noise Of bagpipes oF distant Highland hills. In every Way Michael was noble and gocd, and, like AbraBut soon as Luke, full ten years old, ways, DECEMBER 1965 He with his Father daily went, and they Were as companions, why should I relate That objects which the loved before Were dearer now? That from the Boy there came Feelings and emanations—things which were Light to the sun and music to the wind; And that the old Man's heart seemed born again? Shepherd When the son was eighteen, and Michael eighty-four, financial difficulties pressed upon the family in the form of a "debt of honor." Long before the time Of which I speak, the Shepherd had been bound In surety for his brother's son, a man Of an industrious life, and ample means; But unforeseen misfortunes suddenly Had pressed upon him; and old Michael now Was summoned to discharge the forfeiture, A grievous penalty, but little less Than half his substance. After much discussion it was agreed that Luke should be sent to work for a distant kinsman to relieve the financial stress. Deciding to send him away was most difficult for Michael and his wife Isabel, for they loved the boy deeply. But their love for their land was equally great. And the only possibility for keeping the land as an inheritance for the son was to allow the son to be away for a few years, thus earning sufficient money to discharge the indebtedness and return to his parents and the land they all loved. So arrangements were made for his departure. But before the old father and the young son separated, Michael took Luke into the hills where 954 they laid the cornerstone of a sheepfold as a covenant of their faith in and devotion to each other. Michael assured Luke that at eighty-four he still was "'strong and hale," and while Luke was gone he would use the pile of gathered stones to build the sheepfold and to do the other work now performed by the two together. He counseled his son: ee.. Lay now the cornerstone, As 1 requested; and hereafter, Luke, When thou art gone away, should evil men Be thy companions, think of me, my Son, And of this moment; hither turn thy thoughts, And God will strengthen thee: amid all fear And all temptation, Luke, I pray that thou May'st bear in mind the life thy Fathers lived, Who, being innocent, did for that cause Bestir them in good deeds. Now, fare thee well— When thou return'st, thou in this place wilt see A work which is not here: a covenant — be between us; but, whatever ate Befall thee, I shall love thee to the last, And bear thy memory with me to the grave. ——Then Michael and Luke separated. At first good reports came of the son, but months later Luke "began to slacken in his duty," and "in the dissolute city gave himself to evil courses: ignominy and shame fell on him, so that he was driven at last to seek a hiding-place beyond the seas." Old Michael was somewhat sustained in his grief by his deep love, for There is a comfort in the strength of love; *Twill make a thing endurable, which else Would overset the brain, or break the heart. But partly his love was, in very fact, responsible for his grief, for there is no grief more harsh than that of faith betrayed. Thus, bearing the burden of his sorrow, Michael went about his daily work suffering in silence, often sitting in numb loneliness at the site of the unfinished sheepfold, anguishedly disappointed in his erring son, but still loving him, even as God must feel for his erring earth children. I have conversed with more than one who well Remember the old Man, and what he was Years after he had heard this heavy news. His bodily frame had been from youth to age Of an unusual strength. Among the rocks He went, and still looked up to sun and cloud, And listened to the wind; and, as before, Performed all kinds of labor for his sheep, And for the land, his small inheritance. And to that hollow dell from time to time Did he repair to build the Fold of which His flock had need. 'Tis not forgotten yet The pity which was then in every heart For the old Man—and 'tis believed by all That many and many a day he thither went, And never lifted up a single stone. Now, says Wordsworth in the closing passage of the poem, many years have passed since Michael and his wife died. All that remains are the unhewn stones out of which the sheepfold was to be built—and the legend of the grand old man who bore his grief with such tragic dignity. It is a powerful and unforgetLESSON DEPARTMENT tably sad and beautiful story. In a way, although perhaps Wordsworth did not think of this, it is the Prodigal Son parable retold, but with the son not returning. Its ethical message is not only to parents who may suffer as Michael suffered, but also to children—and all of us are children—who may falter as Luke faltered, and who through the poem may be strengthened in our desire to fulfill the faith in us of those who love us. As one aspect of the story, note that old Michael becomes a greater, more heroic figure through his suffering. Suffering dignifies and deepens him. Someone has defined tragedy as the spectacle of a heroic figure suffering heroically. We admire as well as pity a character of tragic stature, even as Michael is. Wordsworth once said of himself, "A deep distress hath humanized my soul." Is there a kind of understanding, a largeness of the soul, which comes through personal suffering, and can come in no other way? Is there a majesty of the human spirit that becomes most clearly visible only in a moment of defeat and disaster? Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. What specific evidences are there in "The Fly" that the father's grief is unhealthy and self-pitying rather than healthy and mature? 2. What are the dangers, as suggested in "The Fly" and in Hopkins's poem "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord," of placing too much expectation in material rewards for righteous living rather than in spiritual rewards? 3. What specific evidences are there in "Boless" that Pan Student is not as genuinely sympathetic and understanding as he pretends to be? 955 nek ene rare tee a eels oe eae ere re ee Aree DECEMBER 1965 4. Discuss how the dignified blanksuffering with the shallowness of verse language and form of "Micthe old man's in "The Fly." hael" are appropriate for the story 6. What qualities make "Michael" a that is told. Great piece of literature? Does it 5. Contrast the dignity of Michael's have weaknesses? * Note: CORRECT NUMBERING OF LITERATURE LESSONS The lesson "Growth Through Experience," which was printed in the October issue of the Magazine, should have been numbered 11; and the lesson "The Place of Suffering in Life'—Part I, printed in the November Magazine, should have been No. 12. Under the Surface Ruth House I Have told my husband many times, as I cleaned the boys' room, that it would be ideal to have a manhole in the middle of the room. Twice a week, I would open the manhole and hose down the room. That way, I need never worry about what was precious enough to save, or what I could discard. One morning after the boys had cleaned and picked up in their room (which I secretly call "The Jungle"), I put them to work at various jobs while I went in to sweep, and as I surveyed "The Jungle," that morning, I sighed. There were stray socks under the bed, a bag of marbles on the window sill, and as I moved the bed, papers fell from underneath. I discovered a secret hiding place under the mattress; note papers under the rug, and a rock collection scattered on the dresser among an old Weekly Reader and some old tickets, still "lucky" to a child. And then I saw a paper slid under the dresser scarf, with the corner sticking out. I pulled it out and saw a half-written letter, put under there for safekeeping until it could be finished. And I read, "Dear Mother, I love you. Thank you for all the things you do for me. I will try to be a good boy today so I can grow up to be a missionary...." I sat down on the edge of the bed and dabbed my eyes with my apron. Never again will I call it "The Jungle"; never again wish for a manhole. I will look under the surface and see the beauty of their belongings, and, yes, under their dirty faces and patches, too. And perhaps I have been looking at my friends and neighbors in the wrong way, too. I'll look under the surface in my heart and my life, and you look under the surface at your home, and perhaps when we meet, we will all have more beauty in our hearts. 956 i C t pe HAWAIIAN TOURS November 1965 February 1966 al ROSE PARADE TOUR December 1965 <_ MEXICO Early Spring Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P, O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 Jhank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDCRAPFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, ete. Send 25c for catolog and also receive our newest book "EGG CARTON PARTY FAVORS" Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah ~ BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7 1.05 Zone 5.......... 80 a> is = DESERET FREws PRESS UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE by Ernest L. Olson Assistant Professor of English Brigham Young University Four Lectures EDUCATION WEEKS 1965 Price $1.00 * * * DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 by ROY W. DOXEY Associate Professor of Religion Brigham Young University Price $1.50 Available now from BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Extension Publications Provo, Utah 84601 _ EXTENSION PUBLICATIONS 1965 CATALOG sent on request 957 Zone 1 and 2......55 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 6...........90 Zone 8..........1.20 SAN FRANCISCO or LOS ANGELES TOURS 5 Days $57.00 November 24-28 MEXICO XMAS TOUR 18 Days $218.00 Dec. 17—Jan. 4 ROSE PARADE TOUR 8 Days via San Francisco $127.00 Dec. 17—Jan. 4 HAWAII FUN Jan. 11-23 13 Days $550.00 TRAVEL INSTITUTE 278 E. 9th South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Phone 328-4907 YOUTH TOURS ALSO AVAILABLE WISH ON THE MOON Bernice Ames Spill on my shoulder Nuggets of light, As you sail by, older And high tonight. Enchant the meadow To move as a sea, Shifting each shadow Of fence and tree, Till the field runs over With flowing gold, And ships cruise the clover, Jewels in their hold. Tomorrow the willow Will be just a tree; But tonight make it hollow, A_ galleon for me. ROSE PARADE TOURS via San Diego via San Francisco Dec. 26 to Jan. 2 Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SINGING MOTHERS' CHORAL ARRANGEMENTS Abide with Me—Madsen.................20 Come, Come, Ye Saints—Madsen...20 Come Ye Blessed of My Father -..... -20 Come Ye Blessed—Scott.................25 Create in Me a Clean Heart -..........25 Eye Hath Not Seen................--...1. 25 God of All Nature..........0000..0........ -25 Incline Your Ear.............---cc--s0+----- -25 Lord Bless Thee and Keep Thee -.....20 Lord, God of Our Fathers...............25 Lord Is My Shepherd—Ryg.............20 Lord's Prayer—Robertson................ 25 Peace | Leave with You....... Voice in the Wilderness..............-.-- 25 Gesiro Music Co 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 We can supply all the Music suggested for special numbers for the Theology, Social Science and Literature lessons. 958 Eternal Life Prayer for Our Country... -25; cf _ > ( You can dress up your next festive occasion with a beautiful tiered cake usin these PARTY CAKE PANS Most popular premium offer we've ever made... Repeated at your request. Four 4 pans in most wantOF 2°;. Ed sizes, as shown. Jumbo (12" x 1514") extra heavy Mitra ig COOKIE SHEET with FREE U and I Sugar Gingerbread Boy (or Girl) pattern, gingerbread and frosting recipes and colorful decorating suggestions. AK COCO Ree ESE SEE REE EH OSHS SESEESEOSSESOHOEEESOSO OSE HOEEES EOE SH OOOH SOHO HEHE ES DOOR OETEEEO CES HEE EEEESeoeseeeesees * U and Sugar Cookie Sheet Offer 23;: P. O. Box "A" - Seattle, Washington 98109:_: Uand I Party Cake Pans 3: ' e'$ P. O. Box 500, Manitowoc, Wisconsin = ¢ Check choice: * 3:: DD 1 Jumbo 12 x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheet and Ginger-: Please send me the U and I Mirro Party Cake Pans.: 3 bread Boy Pattern. Enclose $1.00 and U & I label °: Enclose $1.00 and U & I label Q ¢ (© 2Jumbo 12x 15%" Wear-ever cookie sheets and Ginger- ¢ _ - bread Boy pattern, plus free nylon spatula (will not * 3; Name —_—_—_____- 5 3 scratch aluminum). Enclose $2.00 and U & I label ¢:: N Please Print:: Street or RFD: ¢ Street or RFD 22 City State Zip Code: 4 City. State. Zip Code. ° 3 Offer expires Decent Sy 1268: Please sree See ~ pawenns ng pan 3 ° - -, 7 4 ae Price subject to change without notice. Offer g only in the U. S. A., and voi. 3 prohibited): Pleane allow three to four weeks {or delivery: Offer cones' Dee' 31, «if any ternitory where prohibited.: $ 1966. PLEASE SEND THIS FORM WITH YOUR ORDER. At: ENEsnicbuilesiattcclctnoceecccsocec ce ccccsossct) ocds cess sccvees swcccesececcccaccedscccdccsesccsccsssesens Look for these offers on back of U and I Sugar "Special Offer" bags now at your grocers 101 Mrs. Ann Crawford Jensen Brigham City, Utah 100 Mrs. Pauline B. Wale Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah E. Burton Foulger Ogden, Utah 49 Mrs. Mary Hegsted Rawson Whittier, California Mrs. Hannah Nyquist Weiser, {daho 98 Mrs. Annie M. Roberts Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louisa Rappleye Hunter Nelson Ferron, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas Shaw Los Angeles, California Mrs. Ellen Morris Marriott Ogden, Utah Mrs. Laura Benson Wray Hyrum, Utah 97 96 Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi, Utah 95 Mrs. Mary F. Sproul Jolley Washington, Utah 3 Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde Mortensen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rose Dorton Varney American Fork, Utah Mrs. Sarah Foss Elliott Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Annis, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Burr Coleman Teasdale, Utah Mrs. Anna Ball Frewin Salt Lake City, Utah 92 960 Mrs. Hannah Dudley Ellsworth Poole Menan, Idaho Mrs. Dora Sanders Gambel Chelsea, Oklahoma Mrs. Sarah Talbot Ellis Ogden, Utah Mrs. Jeanette Bennion Gerrard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Florence McCune Lunt Honolulu, - Hawaii Mrs. Anna J. Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susan Parker Bues Hooper, Utah Mrs. Edith McLelland Gamble Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Astle Reiche Alameda, California Mrs. Jane Prestwich Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ollie T. Nibley Honolulu, Hawaii Mrs. Bertha Kohler Chantry Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amy Baker Minersville, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Miss Clay Allred Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Margaret Wilcox Brems Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ella Leonora Butler Bingham Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Jones Ashby Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Emily Jane Whimpey Evans Pleasant Grove, Utah | Mrs. Selma Klintenbury Hennings American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rose Ellen Bywater Valentine | ey, ESSENTIAL READING FOR THE LDS WIFE AND MOTHER OF FOOD AND THOUGHT by Florence B. Pinnock Not just a cook book-not just a homecraft text. Every Latter-day Saint woman will find inspiration for her daily activities in feeding her family and nourishing their spirits. Divided into monthly segments for year-through reading. An ideal gift. $3.95 OUR MORAL CHALLENGE by Mark E. Petersen An apostle of the Lord speaks to youth about their "growing pains' in straightforward language that has impact and meaning. Perfect gift for your children or for your own reference. $2.95 THIS AGE OF CONFUSION by Alvin R. Dyer An invaluable guide to those who would know of the problems and confusion that beset those churches of the world that have not accepted the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This book will strengthen your testimony by clearly revealing the "concrete" foundation of our faith. $3.50 i esevet Book |"Go a ae COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah g4110 Phone 328-8191 Coot eee ee reese eeeereeseeoresnesesers Residents of Utah, please add 32% sales tax. RS DEC 65 Residents of California, please add 4% sales tax when ordering through California store.; Enclosed find $........, in check/money order/cash/ Or bill: me, I have an account. Iwish books 1. 2. 3. (circle) INSERT eo JEP Nia 3 a SOE IS RG OR eng g iee a 08 bce ion i Sega IAGOGESS Sete Mtoe) te BP eet ee tic ele Mae (Cll is st ea eron ay Rat telc orState. Et hee ehh aThs \0y Were 7 Second Class Posta fe Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah
