Number 1 » &@, ssons for April | & "7 we 2 "Happy New Year'' has become a standard greeting and a common expression of kind wishes when a New Year dawns upon the world. The New Year suggests a time of beginnings and contemplates a closing of the door on the mistakes and difficulties of the past, except for those elements of good we may have extracted from them and upon which we may better build our lives. The expression ''Happy New Year'' becomes a natural manifestation of one's feelings and desires for his friends and associates. It is indeed an exemplification of the spirit of the second great commandment: ''Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." The General Presidency of Relief Society extends to Relief Society women throughout the world its very sincere wishes for a Happy New Year. Relief Society women have so much to make them genuinely happy. They have the sure knowledge of the truthfulness of the restored gospel, with its plan of life and salvation clearly delineated for them. Thousands of our Father's children find themselves in much the same position as the great Belgian playwright, Maeterlinck, when he exclaimed, ''If we knew but one thing to be true, would we not give our all! Relief Society members may be happy in the forward march of the work of this great and divinely inspired, Priesthood-directed organization. Happiness will flow to Relief Society members in the days ahead as they contemplate the development of their individual talents and characters through their Relief Society activities. They will also find happiness added to their lives in boundless measure through the sweet association of their Relief Society sisters. Surely every sister with mind and heart centered on the abiding truths of the gospel and devotedly engaged in the work of Relief Society, may look forward with confidence to much happiness in the New Year. The General Presidency and the General Board continually pray for the happiness and well-being of Relief Society sisters throughout the world. May they ever be blessed of the Lord with the joy which their unselfish devotion to our great work so much deserves. General Presidency, Lcwelef ome om | must write to thank you and tell you how thrilled | was to open the cover of my November Magazine and see our beautiful Mount McCaleb of the Lost River Mountains as the frontispiece. Our little town of Mackay rests at the foot of this lovely peak, and the mountain stands as a sentinel over our valley. The mountain is also my favorite view from my kitchen window. All of the Magazines are lovely and such an inspiration to all who read them. Leona B. Anderson Mackay, Idaho The wonderful Relief Society Magazine has been coming to our home for five years, and the teachings, both in love and spirituality, have helped tremendously in building our marriage and home. My husband has been attending school since we were married, and living on the kind of budget students live on, the Magazine has helped me greatly in figuring shortcuts, inexpensive food items, and sewing ideas, not to mention the uplift | receive from the Magazine when | need encouragement. Mrs. Marsha Ball Urbana, Illinois | am only twenty years old and single, but subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine. | think the Magazines would help the young women, for they could understand the appeal to the heart and to the personal being. They could learn of their roles as tomorrow's leaders of the women of the Church. Ailien Winn Smithfield, Utah | do love The Relief Society Magazine—the greatest of all magazines for women. Without it | would be lost. It gives me great inspiration each time | pick it up. It makes one feel close to the Heavenly Father. Its beauty, both inside and out, is beyond expression. Mrs. Ollie M. England Logan, Utah | would like to express my appreciation and thanks to a wonderful missionary sister from Utah. We had the pleasure of her company in our home, and we grew to love her very much. After she returned home she very kindly had The Relief Society Magazine sent to me, and | receive it regularly each month. | enjoy reading it so much, especially the poems and serials. To Sister Beth McEwan and all the wonderful missionary sisters and elders I've had the pleasure of meeting and having in my home, | would like to say thank you most sincerely, and God bless you. Doreen Burrows Port Kembla, N. S. W. Australia The poem 'Yesterday's Gold," by Dorothy Roberts (September 1963) still stays with me. Rarely does a poem affect me as this one has. After two full years, | am unable to get it out of my mind. In this poem, as in a perfect painting, you catch the pathos of poignant grief. It is a touching poem, a great one. | have not read a poem in some time that | think can compare with it. The poem ''Requited," by Bertha Kleinman is also outstanding and beautiful. There is a delicacy about it not often found in poems. Rose A. Openshaw Mesa, Arizona | am happy to report that more and more of the young homemakers in our ward are reading the educational and inspirational Magazine and also participating in Relief Society meetings. This morning | was reading again the September 1965 issue. | enjoyed Frances C. Yost's story "A Dress for Sherry Lynn," just as much this morning as when | read it about three weeks ago. The warmth of family love, the joy of sharing and taking turns written about in this lovely story, are indeed heartwarming. Ida Andersen Soda Springs, Idaho | The Relief Society weaczzine Volume 53 January 1966 Number 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 1 New Year's Greeting General Presidency 4 Teaching the Gospel Joseph Fielding Smith 9 Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 10 Letter to Viet Nam — First Prize Poem Eva Willes Wangsgaard 12 Legacy — Second Prize Poem Julie H. Beecher 14 Prelude of Promise — Third Prize Poem Pearle M. Olsen 16 Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest 17. For Barbara, With Love — First Prize Story Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt 34 The 1966 March of Dimes George P. Voss Fiction 24 Wheat for the Wise — Chapter 1 Margery S. Stewart 35 The Blue Crystal Vase Betty Lou Martin Smith General Features 2 From Near and Far 380 Editorial: "And Tell of Time" Vesta P. Crawford 32 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 33 Notes to the Field: Bound Volumes of 1965 Magazines 51 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 80 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 42 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions—Part III Rosa Shurtz 44 A "Quick" Quilt for a Child's Bed Min VanBrandwijk 46 Get Acquainted With Watercress Elizabeth Williamson 47 Catherine B. Pratt Finds Many Uses for Greeting Cards 48 Our Little Nest Egg Helen M. Peterson 79 Uncle Time and Auntie Inclination Vilate R. McAllister Lessons for April 58 Theology * The Word of Wisdom—A Life-Giving Revelation Roy W. Doxey 63 Visiting Teacher Message « "For What Doth It Profit a Man...." Christine H. Robinson 65 Work Meeting * Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (a Continuation) Hazel S. Cannon 68 Social Science "Seek and Ye Shall Find" Alberta H. Christensen 73 Literature * Facing Death, Part I Robert K. Thomas Poetry How Have We Followed? Christie Lund Coles, 7; Sea Gull Monument, Dorothy J. Roberts, 8; January, Linnie Fisher Robinson, 29; Samaritan, Sylvia Probst Young, 33; Shifting Sands, Ethel Jacobson, 34; Traveling, Zara Sabin, 40; My Little Bread and Butter Life, Catherine B. Pratt, 41; Respite, Rowena Jensen Bills, 45; Across the Miles, Gladys Hesser Burnham, 49; Opportunity, Ora Pate Stewart, 77; To the One in the Middle, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 77; If I Were a Blue Jay, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 78. The Cover: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah, by Dorothy J. Roberts, lithographed in full color by Deseret News Press; Frontispiece: Wintertime Splendor, by Eric M. Sanford; Art Layout by Dick Scopes; Illustrations by Mary Scopes. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Teaching the Gospel President Joseph Fielding Smith of The Council of the Twelve (Called to the First Presidency October 29, 1965) [Address Delivered at the officers meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] (Read by his wife, Jessie Evans Smith, in his absence) Sister Smith: Thank you, Sister Spafford. I don't know whether I am grateful to be here this morning or not. I was looking forward to it yesterday, but like Brother Doxey, I have heen watching the door over here hoping that the brethren would come in, but they haven't, but I love you and I am grateful to be here with you this morning. My husband doesn't generally write his speeches, but he said, "I feel that I should do something this time in order to give the sisters the message. I don't know why I feel like that," he said, "but I think I should just put down a few remarks." So, with your faith and prayers on my behalf, I will give what President Smith has for you sisters. It is entitled, "Teaching the Gospel." m@ My dear sisters, I hope and pray that I may say something that will be upbuilding to your testimonies, and I ask that the Lord will bless me with inspiration to give the things that you desire. The Church has two great responsibilities. That is, the members of the Church have these responsibilities. It is our individual duty to preach the gospel by precept and by example among our neighbors. In 4 Section 88 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are informed that even those who are warned are under the obligation to receive the message and also to wam their neighbors. The people who are living are entitled to hear the message, so this responsibility to teach the world is an outstanding one. We cannot get away from the obligation. The Lord declared that his coming is nigh at hand. It is lh ts our duty, then, to do all we can, and the Lord will bring to our aid other forces besides our missionaries, that his work may be advanced and his words be fulfilled. I speak of this responsibility at this time for fear there may be some who think the work they are doing is the great work of this dispensation. The people engaged inthe Relief Society and other auxiliaries feel that they have great responsibility and they have, but their work does not overshadow this great duty of preaching the. Gospel to the world. Now, there are many debts which we owe the Lord. There is the debt of preaching this gospel to a wicked and perverse generation, and those are the words of the Lord, so do not accuse me of calling the world wicked. It is. I can testify to that from what I have seen of it, and I have seen of the wickedness but a small part, I assure you. The world today is filthy, drunken, saturated and stinking with tobacco. The world is full of immorality. It is a fallen world. It has been a fallen world since Adam was driven from the Garden of Eden, and yet we are in it, and the Lord has given us the mission of assisting him, of being agents in this world, to regenerate it, as far as it is possible to bring to pass that regeneration. It will never be fully accomplished, so far as we are concerned. We are not going, by our preaching, to save very many souls. The Lord has given unto us our agency. We may act for ourselves, we may choose to do good or we may choose to do evil. The Lord said that men love darkness TEACHING THE GOSPEL rather than light because their deeds are evil. Yet our mission, I say, so far as it is within our power, is to regenerate, to bring to repentance, just as many of the children of our Father in Heaven as it is possible for us to do. That is one of our debts; that is an obligation the Lord has placed upon the Church. It is the duty of every member of this Church to preach the gospel by precept and by example. The purpose and duties of the Relief Society are many. I am going to repeat myself again because there may be some here today who were not here when I made this statement before, and I also have the backing of my father, President Joseph F. Smith. "This is an organization that was established by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is, therefore, the oldest auxiliary organization of the Church, and it is of the first importance. It has not only to deal with the necessities of the poor, the sick and the needy, but a part of its duty—and the larger part, too —is to look after the spiritual welfare and salvation of the mothers and daughters of Zion; to see that none is neglected, but that all are guarded against misfortune, calamity, the powers of darkness, and the evils that threaten them in the world. It is the duty of the Relief Societies to look after the spiritual welfare of themselves and of all the female members of the Church. It is their duty to collect means from those who have in abundance, and to distribute it wisely unto those in need. It is a part of their duty to see that there are those capable of being nurses, as well as teachers and exemplars 5 JANUARY 1966 in Zion, and that they have an opportuniy to become thoroughly prepared for this great labor and responsibility. I have heard of a disposition on the part of some of our sisters to become a law unto themselves in relation to these things. I would like to say that it is expected of the Relief Society, especially the general authorities of that great organization, that they will have a watchcare over all its organizations among the women of Zion. They stand at the head of all such; they ought to stand at the head, and they should magnify their calling, and see to it that error is not permitted to creep in, that cabals are not formed, that secret combinations may not get a foothold, to mislead the sisters. They should see to it that the other organizations of women in the Church correspond and are in harmony with their organizations. Why should this be? In order that the women of Zion may be united, that their interests may be in common, and not conflicting or segregated, and that the purpose of this organization may be realized and the organization itself be effective for good in every part of the Church throughout the world, wherever the gospel is preached.... | commend the Relief Societies to the bishops and say, be friendly to these organizations, because they are auxiliary organizations and a great help to the bishops...." It is the duty of the Relief Society '"'to look after the interests of all the women of Zion and of all the women that may come under their supervision and care, irrespective of religion, color or condition.... Today it 6 is too much the case that our young, vigorous, intelligent women feel that only the aged should be connected with the Relief Society. This is a mistake. We want the young women, the intelligent women, women of faith, of courage and of purity to be associated with the Relief Societies of the various stakes and wards of Zion. We want them to take hold of this work with vigor, with intelligence, and unitedly, for the building up of Zion and the instruction of women in their duties—domestic duties, public duties, and every duty that may devolve upon them." The matter of teaching is one of the greatest importance. We cannot estimate its value when it is properly done; neither do we know the extent of the evil that may result if it is improperly done. The greatest qualification required of a teacher is that she have faith in the principles of the gospel; that she believe in the principles of revealed truth as they have come through inspired prophets in our own day as well as in times of old; and that he or she shall exercise their privilege as a teacher in the spirit of prayer and faith. I am in full accord with the commandment as it is written in this revelation. Unless a man (or woman) does have a knowledge of the truth, has faith in the word of the Lord and his power, and is guided by the Spirit of the Lord, he should not teach. We are commanded "to give diligent heed to the words of eternal life." For we "shall live by every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God. For the word of the | kere.: Lord is truth, and whatsoever is truth is light, and whatsoever is light is Spirit, even the Spirit of Jesus Christ." I was handed a poem the other day by Sister Pauline Marie Bell which fits in with Relief Society and I would like to give it to you now: Ancient mothers, God has blessed you With a hope so mighty strong Thou didst give a glorious pattern, Courage filled our hearts with song— Relief Society in faith united Walking where the Savior trod, Gazing upward to that Giver, TEACHING THE GOSPEL Praising ever Israel's God. Daughters of those faithful Marys, Sharing woe with Christ so true, Faith undaunted, God has given— Blessings are fulfilled in you. Zion's daughters, meek and loyal, Children of that chosen band, True and faithful, God has called you, To assist his mighty hand. May we all strive to keep the commandments, and the Lord will bless us in our work, and may he bless each of you with a desire to follow in paths of righteousness, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, Amen. HOW HAVE WE FOLLOWED? Christie Lund Coles These words he spoke, 'I now turn the key... Others admonishing and wise, as he said We should have charity, relieve the poor. We should partake of all spiritual bread. We were to be patient; we should share, And walk as sisters of mercy and light, Healing, administering to the needs Of others, as a kindly mother might. How have we followed? How have we kept faith? How have we met the call of those who. Came, Asking for a nourishment more real Than any food or drink the lips can name? How have we given aid, how have we shown True depth of understanding, and the sweet Friendship that heals a solitary way, Or puts new courage into ageing feet? How have we shared our portion with the least, Giving — as privilege and not as ration — And, oh, above all else, we followers, How have we given love and true compassion? = all eS Bird on the bough of winter, Call back the century, the summer day. Eternity of granite sphered beneath your airy tread, _ The posture of arrival, the meaning of mercy. _ Lest one mind remember not the small company, - Knee-bent in almost-surrender Above the creeping black stain on their isolation, - The wheeling cloud of all-consuming birds,: The fluid arc of wings which rose and fell, again, aga n. Declare, though pinions wear the weight of frost, _ That grain grew after, gold As the leaf on your breast. SEA GULL MONUMENT ~ Dorothy J. Roberts Snow on straining wing, Paint on the leaden wind Leafed in gold, repeat, repeat, To the fear of winter-hunger. Then, answer— Bird on the bough of evening, west, DOROTHY J. ¥ oS @ The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1965 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1965. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem ''Letter to Viet Nam.'' The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Julie H. Beecher, Martinez, California, for her poem "Legacy.'' The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem ''Prelude of Promise." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. January was her birth month. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Award winners Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Wangsgaard, beginning in 1939, has received an award in nine of the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contests. Mrs. Beecher is a first-time winner, and Mrs. Olsen placed second in the contest last year. Two hundred seventy-two poems were submitted to the contest this year, representing nearly every State in the United States and several other countries. Seventy entries came from Utah, forty-three from California, twenty-three from Arizona, eleven from Washington, seven from Colorado, and six from Oregon. Seven entries came from Canada; and England, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa were represented. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine. First Prize Poem 10 LETTER TO VIET NAM Eva Willes Wangsgaard The summertime was rich—the sorrel foaled, The Guernsey yielded twins, the crops were lush. Each hour fitted well the patterned mold And high stars twinkled over midnight hush— A summer like all others, picnic-true. We fished the Blackfork, iced a worthy load. We swam and boated. Bear Lake was as blue When we looked backward from the canyon road. But | walk two dimensions—one aware Of outer fullness blessing stall and bin, While my insurgent heart denies its share. Its threshing leaves an emptiness within. Abundance harvested, the beasts' content Without your nearness seem inconsequent. Now leaves are making music overhead. The winds raise slender flutes above the beat, A plaintive number saying, '"'Summer's dead," While still the grass is green beneath my feet. The willows drop long tears where leaves are thinned; The lindens twist in Spanish pirouettes. The Norway maples whistle with the wind And sycamores shake balls and castinets. Where locust blossoms filled the April night With fragrance, penetrating, intimate, Now pod-harmonicas lift strains as light While leaves twirl grace notes, golden, intricate. In loneliness breathed through these vibrant reeds Another year leans where the mallard leads. Today | walked across our stubbled fields While still the frost flakes sparkled everywhere. | strode along to where the mountain wields Its stubborn strength against our spade and share. Do you remember from the years gone by How golden is our valley in the fall? How aspens, poplars, elders, shrubs all vie To be more golden than a warbler's call? | played a childish game, a thin pretense That you were with me striding hand in hand. Did you draw one crisp breath? A moment sense This brisk, bright freshness pass through jungle land? A wild goose honked, and in that spike of sound | read ''Return'' and felt my faith rebound. Eva Willes Wangsgaard First Prize Winner Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, has had several books of her poems published, has received prizes in many state and national contests, and is one of Utah's best known and best loved poets. '"'! L am still living in the home on 28th Street,'"' she tells us, ''and am still enthralled with the garden in the growing seasons, where several organizations hold their summer parties. All three of the children live in Cache Valley; the thirteen grandchildren are growing up. Two are married, with two children each. One, the oldest girl, finished college last year and is teaching in Salt Lake City. Her brother Joseph David Evans is in West Germany serving a mission. Michael Wangsgaard, my son Dee's eldest, is back from a mission to the Northeastern States. He was married this past August, and both he and his wife are finishing their college courses at the Utah State University. Jim, my son Reid's son, is also attending Utah State. "Tl am still writing poetry. My chief outlets are the national literary contests and the various church magazines. My latest achievement "Night in the Mountains,'' a sonnet, was chosen to illustrate the poet's approach to nature in a new text '"'Science: a Key to the Future," for junior high schools, published by the Macmillan Company. | have a biographical note in Who's Who in Poetry International, and in International Biography, both books compiled and published by UNESCO." 11 Julie H. Beecher Second Prize Winner Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Julie H. Beecher, Martinez, California, is a first-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. She speaks of herself as a "beginning writer."' We enjoy our Church activities in the Martinez Ward, where | am Presently serving as education counselor in the Relief Society Presidency." 13 Third Prize Poem PRELUDE OF PROMISE Pearle M. Olsen Forming The boundless ocean groaned! Its heaving strength Moved restlessly with bidding will of moon And wind, in ever-changing tidal length! Waves whipped in furious widening typhoon While roots of future islands, being born In darkest layers rupturing earth's core Spewed high again! Only the ocean, torn And timeless, knew the forming on its floor! Relentless effort, claiming right to be— With inch by painful inch of straining birth; Volcanic base, fringed coral filigree— A subterranean chain of writhing earth! The child of violence, risen from the deep— Mature and willing, luring nature's leap! Adorning The youthful surfaces of earth's marred shell— Nude islands, raw and waiting, empty-armed, Were swept by winds without a parallel And pounded by the force of rain's alarm! Their milling acts, on lava newly born, Made fertile soil for growth of migrant seed Let fall by halting bird, long weather-worn, Into a niche where sprouting could proceed. A few insects, wind-borne from distant land, With fragmentary green, wilting from strife— Found ways to give sweet growth to bare, unscanned And pregnant soil's potential—beauteous life! While poised on far-off shores, hoping to span The ocean, strained the earth's exploring man! Ek kk & € Delighting We traveled into other lands where strange Unheeding eyes were set in alien clay. We sought for words within a bounded range Of verbal comprehension—to convey A strengthened lexicon in daily fare. We felt endearing warmth in cultures' ring; Considered remnant nations melting where East met West, in nature's subtle blending. We found within the cauldron those who knew The plan of life we cherished in our hearts. We loved and understood, as children do, The others whom a mother's womb imparts. Our love identified to kind—beyond 4 The barriers of speech, in spirit bond! 14 Pearle M. Olsen Third Prize Winner Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, former president of North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, and former member of the General Board of Relief Society, is a second-time winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. 'i am delighted to be an award winner again this year,'' she says. ''I find the years are challenging me for continued self-expression in the fields of creativity, and | especially enjoy the writing of poetry. A two-year mission call shortly before my nineteenth birthday interrupted my formal schooling. When marriage and family responsibilities ensued, | found that teaching in the Church auxiliaries, and educational classes, as | made time for them, helped to satisfy my quest for learning and development. Actually, the various positions | have held in Relief Society provided the greatest opportunities for intensive study and continuing education during most of my life. The past few years | have turned to writing classes and writers' organizations for stimulation and enlightenment. "My husband, William Carlyle Olsen, is a member of Ensign Stake High Council. Our three children are: Mrs. E. G. Jenkins (Billye) of Nampa, Idaho; John K. M. Olsen, Los Altos, California; and Mrs Robert Morris (Carlyle), Salt Lake City, Utah. We have fourteen grandchildren, seven girls and seven boys." 15 W@ The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1965. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, for her story ''For Barbara, With Love.'' The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Venda Brown Castleberry, Rigby, Idaho, for her story ''A Time to Every Purpose."' The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story ''The Search for Katie." The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. Award winners The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1966. Forty-nine stories were entered in the 1965 contest, including submissions from Wales, England, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, and Alaska. Mrs. Vesterfelt is a first-time winner in the short story contest, and the General Board of Relief Society is pleased to see a Canadian sister among the winners. Mrs. Castleberry received the first prize in last year's contest, and Mrs. Littke placed second last year. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Gratitude is extended to the members of the General Board who served on the short story committee, and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries. 16 FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest; y Bari Aro Ul Wai Ali i Love Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt Sudbury, Ontario, Canada tI] il @ Barbara took down the box of letters, choosing one carefully from the rather untidy collection within. The outer page was torn a little and beginning to take on the color of age. Opening the letter slowly, she began to read. "Darling, at last I can tell you where I am and why you haven't heard from me for quite awhile. This is D-day plus seven. I left England for the Continent on D-day plus three. (Isn't this a ridiculous way to describe time?) I keep thinking of that last night we were together at Winchester and the 'heavenly' meal of beans on toast at that old-fashioned restaurant. We had so much to say to each other and time was so short. "Darling, before I left England I mailed a book to you at your army address. Did you receive it O. K.? Will you read it and let me know what you think of it? Remember our discussions on this subject and your utter amazement at my 'credibility'? "Do you recall our standing in the rain outside your billet, with your twelve-o'clock deadline, and so many words left unspoken? I told you I loved you and asked you to wait for my return. You touched my cheek gently with your lips and whispered, 'It's impossible, I've been so careful not to fall in love, especially with an American soldier!' "T love you, Barbara,. And we will have a future together. Because of this love, I want to share my thoughts, my dreams with you. Darling, you'll like America, and I'm sure you will be happy there with me. I have written my family and told them about my 'English sergeant.' I'm not going to write of the fighting here, or of the unspeakably sordid aspect of war. 7 "Thank you for your poem and for your overly kind comments on my poetry. I'll try to write often. Read the book I sent... Please. "Love me in absence as I love you. "Mac " Barbara brushed the tears almost surreptitiously away. Her thoughts went back to those war years. It was November 1943. Barbara and Monica, her closest friend, were planning their long week end in London. Monica, looking rather worried, turned to Barbara. "T hate to tell you this, but I got a letter from Cam—you know —the American I met on my last leave. He wants to see me this week end in London. I've been wanting to tell you all week, but I knew we had planned this week end together and...." "Oh, Monica, don't feel badly about it, I can visit my aunt. She lives just outside London." Monica looked forlorn. "But I do feel awful! I know, why don't I write and ask if he has a friend... A sort of blind date? That's what Ill do, I'll write tonight!" Barbara shook her head fiercely. "No, no, I really don't approve of blind dates, they often prove embarrassing to both parties, especially if they don't hit it off." She smiled reassuringly. Monica was insistent. "Listen, Babs, Cam is a decent fellow, and I'm sure he will bring a nice friend. Do say you'll come with me!" Barbara thought of the longanticipated week end, and the prospect of spending it in Aunt Selina's huge, lonely house. "All right, but there's no obligation attached. Impress this upon your American friend." Now they were both on their way to London, Monica bubbling with excitement, and Barbara feeling apprehensive at the prospect of the unknown blind date. Their room on the top floor of the Y. W. C. A. On Baker Street was small but spotless. Monica had arranged for them to meet their dates in the downstairs lounge at eight o'clock in the evening. Dressing was no problem, it simply meant a change of uniform, shirt, and shoes. Barbara felt a surge of excitement within her. This really was different, preparing to meet a blind date. Promptly at eight they descended the narrow spiral staircase leading into the lounge, Monica well ahead, eyes shining and anxiously scanning the room for the two American uniforms. Barbara hung back. "Monica, I don't see any American soldiers, they didn't turn up...." Monica hadn't heard. Forgetting her lady-like descent, she streaked across the room and into the arms of a husky, dark-eyed American soldier, previously halfhidden by a reception cubicle. "Cam, oh, Cam... How nice to see you again!"" Monica hugged him joyfully. "Monica, honey." Cam held her at arms' length. '""We have an audience. This is Mac, full name, Glen McKinley.... By the way, where's your friend?" Barbara stepped shyly forward, extending her hand to meet Mac's. FOR BARBARA, WITH LOVE "Hello, Barbara, happy to know you." His grip was firm. Barbara raised her eyes to meet his, and to take a better look at her blind date. He was tall, well over six feet in height, with deep blue — eyes and a broad smile. His hair was red, flaming red! Thought Barbara, one couldn't really call him handsome, but he has a certain boyish look which is extremely attractive. Mac was also taking stock. How tiny she is, about five feet high... And I'll bet she doesn't weigh over ninety pounds! His eyes photographed her features. Not vividly beautiful, he thought, dark hair tucked neatly beneath her severe army cap. Tiny, piquant face, wide-set gray eyes, a friendly smile... No, not beautiful, but certainly appealing. He gave her a warm smile. Together, they left the residence after deciding unanimously to go dancing at Covent Garden. Mac held Barbara's arm protectively as they edged along the crowded street. He seemed reluctant to start a conversation, and Barbara felt rather shy and quite conscious of the warmth of his hand on her arm. The ballroom was comfortably filled. As soon as a table was secured, Monica and Cam got up to dance. Mac smiled at Barbara. "I'm not the best dancer in London, but shall we try this one?" The orchestra opened with the sweet, haunting strains of "Besame Mucho," and_ Barbara glided into Mac's arms. Oh, dear, he dances differently than I... I do hope my feet behave themselves, she fretted momentarily. I'm_ very 19 JANUARY 1966 He held her close, yet not uncomfortably so. Her steps blended magically with his, and they were no longer strangers. How quickly the evening passed, and, as they walked back to her billet, through streets black and lampless, Mac asked if he could see her again the next day. "Do you really want to see me —or is it because you feel you ought to carry this 'blind date' role to the end?" Barbara quickly touched his hand. "I'm sorry. I shouldn't have said that, please forgive me." "Now look here, sergeant, if I didn't want to see you again I wouldn't ask for a date!" He threw her a puckish grin. "After all, I've always wanted to get on good terms with a sergeant. I couldn't pass up such an opportunity. And, incidentally, how come a half-pint like you ever made sergeant?" Barbara laughed merrily, "I'm asked that question dozens of times a week! My anwer is always the same — I sat on the colonel's knee!"' He ducked as if from an imaginary blow. 'Ouch, I deserved that!" They climbed the steps of the residence. He held her hand in his, seeing her face dimly in the darkness. "Goodnight, little sergeant, I'll see you tomorrow at twelve noon, Trafalgar Square." That night Monica and Barbara talked for hours, and Barbara fell asleep with the memory of Mac's gentle arm around her as they danced. Monica and Cam had made different plans. They were to see the changing of the guard at 20 Buckingham Palace. Barbara explained her arrangements with Mac. "Oh, Monica, how are we going to get together? I forgot to ask about your arrangements!" Monica airily waved her hand. "Think nothing of it.... I gain the distinct impression that Corporal McKinley wants to be alone with his sergeant." She smiled slyly. Once again Barbara experienced a surge of excitement as she walked towards Trafalgar Square and her second meeting with Mac. Would he be there... Would he change his mind? There were so many diversions for the American soldiers in London.... Would he feel it was worth his while to keep the appointment? Her heart leapt as she saw him standing there, watching the strutting pigeons. He hurried to meet her with a broad smile of welcome on his boyish face. "Gosh, I was getting anxious!" Gently, he squeezed her arm. "Is there any special place you'd like to go, or shall we take the day as it comes?" He smiled questioningly. "No special place," Barbara quickly added, "but what about you? You're an American, and perhaps I ought to show you the sights." They turned into Piccadilly. "Honey," Mac replied, 'I've seen all the sights, honest! What about lunch and an afternoon dance somewhere... And then the theatre... O. K.?" "Mac, you'll never get tickets for the theatre unless you book months ahead!'' She shook her head at his naiveté. "Ah-ha.... Abracadabra and voila!"" He waved two tickets in front of her. 'Sheer bribery, that's what it is!" Barbara's eyes shone. '"Tickets to 'This Is the Army'.... How did you manage it?... No, don't tell me, that would be collusion, an accessory after the fact, or something like that!'' She hugged his arm impulsively. Mac's heart did a somersault. Why did he feel such tenderness towards this girl who was almost a stranger? That night, as they walked along Baker Street, he told Barbara of his reluctance to accept Cam's offer of a blind date. His hand found hers. "I sure am glad I came, little one!" It had been a memorable day, spent in discovering each other, sharing each other's hopes and dreams for the future. Barbara told him of her attempts to write poetry, and felt a warm glow when Mac confessed also that he wrote poetry. "T make a wild stab at it. I've done it for years, but I'm no Walt. Whitman!" He laughed. "What about you?" "Y'm no Christina Rosetti... And I've also penned my poor efforts for years!" He told of his Sunday School work, and of his unwavering faith in God. Before' they parted, he kissed her for the first time, somewhat shyly yet quite thoroughly. Barbara felt a strange stirring within her breast. She responded warmly to his kiss. "Goodnight, Barbara. Tomorrow we will have only a few hours together. What time does your train leave? Mine leaves at 8:35 P. M." FOR BARBARA, WITH LOVE "Our train leaves at 7:30 P. M. Worse luck! The week end has simply flown!" She opened the door of the residence, closing it quickly behind her so that no light would pierce the blackout. Their last precious hours were spent walking through St. James' Park, kicking the dry leaves, talking, enjoying long moments of silence. "You'll write to me?" His expression was serious. "I don't want to lose you now that I've traveled thousands of miles to find you!" He grinned impishly. "That sounds corny, but I mean it!" Barbara pressed his hand to her side. "Of course I'll write, and I'll send you one of my poems if you will send me yours, only -_. + promise not to laugh at them." "That goes for you, too. I am afraid you'll chuckle when you read mine!" They both expertly jumped a puddle. "Come on!" She tugged at his hand. "Let's feed the swans. I saved two biscuits for this momentous occasion. Race you to the lake!" "Lake! Which lake... You mean that little creek down there!" Barbara threw a handful of leaves. "That, my dear American, is a lake, and Ill not listen to any tall tales of Texas." He adopted an air of injured innocence, "I am not, repeat not a Texan, I'm from Oregon!" "And this is a lake, not, repeat not a creek!" Barbara stretched to her full height. 'And I'm from Yorkshire, not from London!" They both laughed as, with a great show of ceremony, she handed him a biscuit. "Mr. Mce- 21 JANUARY 1966 Kinley, your ration for this week, and half must go to the swans!" He scrutinized the golden wafer in his hand and, turning to her with a mischievous glint, exclaimed, ''Ah, a cookie, a genuine English cookie!" Barbara exploded, "It is a biscuit, not a cookie! When in Rome.. Ee. Etc!" They sat by the edge of the lake, the November mist giving them an _ unexpected privacy. Each grew silent, thinking of the parting so close at hand. As the train began to move away from the platform, Mac whispered something softly against her cheek. "This is crazy, but I think I'm in love." They watched each other until the train rounded a curve in the tracks. Did she really hear those words, or was it just imagination? Afterwards, there were letters, many of them, some containing poems, and one bulging with snapshots. There were outpourings of the heart, and a growing understanding of each other. There was a final meeting in Winchester, and a declaration of love. Both knew there was something big about to happen, some great push, or the opening up of another front in some far-off theatre of war. A week after their meeting and subsequent reluctant parting in Winchester, Barbara received a 22 parcel from Mac. Twelve bars of precious chocolate and two bars of soap. Nestled in the centre of this treat was a book similar in appearance to the Bible. On the fly leaf was written, "For Barbara, with love. Because I know that our future belongs together, I am sending you this book. I want to share my faith with you, and ask only that you read with an open mind, praying for understanding of those things which may seem incomprehensible to you. I love you, Mac." She kept the book in her room in the sergeants' mess, looking at it only occasionally, understanding nothing that was written there. The history written therein was totally alien to her. She was puzzled by its literacy, but too engrossed by the war to delve deeper into its mysteries. Twenty-nine days after Mac landed on the Continent of Europe with the imvasion forces, Barbara received a letter from Cam. "Dear Barbara: This is a sad assignment for me. I must be the one to break the news of Mac's death. He was killed in action on D-day plus eleven. I myself am in a base hospital, but not badly hurt, just a few scratches. I'm terribly sorry. I really don't know what else can I say. God bless you, Cam...." Barbara folded the faded letter and replaced it at the bottom of the pile in the box. Her small son threw his arms around her legs. "Mommy, did you fall.... Why are you crying?" He looked up anxiously into her face. "No, dear. Mommy is just remembering someone, a very nice person whom I knew a long time ago." She moved her finger along the rows of books, stopping to take out one similar in appearance to the Bible. She traced the embossed title on the cover. "What is it called, Mommy?" asked her son. "Is it a fairy | story?" She sat down by the telephone, lifted the child into her arms, and read the title slowly to him. "The... Book... Of... Mormon.". "Ts it a fairy story? May I hear it?" Barbara opened the book to the fly leaf. As she read the inscription, the past became the present for her once more. "For Barbara, with love.... Because I know that our future belongs together, I am sending you this book. I want to share my faith with you, and ask only that you read with an open mind, praying for understanding of those things which may seem incomprehensible to you. I love you, Mac." Absentmindedly, she ruffled her son's hair, thinking of the years between. Of the new love she had found, of her subsequent FOR BARBARA, WITH LOVE marriage, and the birth of this dear child. On the telephone pad was a number which she slowly dialed. "Hello. This is Mrs. Barbara Thomas. You gave me your number to call in case I should change my mind. You knocked at my door earlier today, and I said I was not interested. Well, I have changed my mind. I'd like to hear what you have to say. No, I don't require a Book of Mormon. I had one given me during the war, but I never got around to reading it. I know nothing about your religion, really, although the person who gave me the book must have been of your faith. He said he'd been on a mission or something like that.... We didn't have time to talk much about it, and I'm afraid I was reluctant to discuss religion, so he didn't press the issue.... Yes, any day will suit me. Wednesday will be just fine, two-thirty. Thank you. Goodbye...." Barbara opened The Book of Mormon at the first chapter and began to read aloud to her son, "TI, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents...." Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt, a newcomer to the pages of The Relief Society Magazine, lives in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. ''! Am most honored,"' she writes, "'to receive first prize in the contest. | feel quite humble and surprised that | was chosen.! Was born in Leeds, Yorkshire, England, and served four and onehalf years as a sergeant with the British Army, before coming to Canada as a war bride in 1946. In February 1950, | was converted to the Church, and shortly thereafter was instrumental in bringing my sister into the Church. All my family live in Leeds. "| have been writing poetry since my kindergarten years, and contribute regularly to the poetry section of The Sudbury Daily Star. | have also contributed to The Improvement Era. | have one son, Colin, age eighteen, and now in his sophomore year at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. He is hoping to go on a mission next fall, when he will be nineteen. | am active in Church work, being a Junior Sunday School teacher and music conductor in Junior Sunday School, and also chorister in sacrament meetings. | teach literature in Relief Society and conduct the music for this organization. "My hobbies are reading (mostly non-fiction), listening to classical music, and occasionally attending a good play." 23 Margery S. Stewart Chapter 1 @ It began on an October afternoon. Jennie, wheeling the new car homeward, in the South Temple Street traffic, felt the change in the weather. She looked with love on the leaves flowing past her from the flaming trees. The year was a river rushing toward the white silences. She snuggled under the soothing mink of her collar and touched her bright hair carefully. What would Rex say to the new color? Laugh probably, with the lines raying out from the corners of his eyes. Rex was maturing in such a charming way, even his graying hair was an advantage against his glowing tan. But of course, thirty-five was not elderly, to say the least. Jennie looked at her watch. Sabra's birthday! The cake not frosted, the ten candles not 24 bought, and here it was five already! How the afternoon melted when the girls all got together. In all the feverish feminine chatter everyone seemed to forget that they would all be together again in just five hours at still another party. Jennie hurried the gas pedal and raced for her own driveway. She shivered when she saw the house. She still could not overcome her delight in its newness and beauty. She stood for a moment on the curved brick walk to enjoy the smooth good looks of the place. Oh, she was the lucky one... She, Jennie Starr, was one of the lucky women in America.... Let the headlines wave black banners... Let the far-off tumults shout from the television screens... Let the riots and the seething mistrust rise and fall... She, Jennie Starr, had a sanctuary for herself and her family. She lived in a fortress on this lovely 'street on this October day. Whatever the morrow might bring, today this beautiful four-bedroom, two-bath house, with a family room and a family, was hers. All the charming people inside were hers, from Rex the tall, to Johnnie the newest. Jennie ran up the stairs out of the crisp cold and flung open the door. "I'm home, my darlings!" The shout of welcome came simultaneously with their catapulting bodies. "Did you bring me a s'prize?"' demanded Lora, and _ without waiting, '""Look, what we have!" Jennie looked cautiously and kept herself from leaping on a chair with an effort. 'Darling, mouses belong outdoors." "Mice," corrected Lance gravely, ''and besides, Mother, this is white and you buy them at the store." "All mice," said Jennie firmly, "white or brown, store or otherwise... Out... Out!" Lora looked at her in disappointment. "It will die,' she said, "do you want it to die?" "Tt sure will die,' echoed Lance, "and it cost me a dollar and a half." Johnny puffed from the kitchen. His diapers dragged and he clutched a toothbrush in one hand. Lance put in quickly, "The new baby sitter is real good." Jennie examined 'the toothbrush. She looked at Lance questioningly. He nodded. "I think so. I heard him in the downstairs bathroom." Jennie sighed and confiscated the toothbrush. The new baby sitter came in from the kitchen. Jennie made a mental note of the red ring on WHEAT FOR THE WISE the rosy cheek, caused by the telephone. "They were real good, Mrs. Starr. I didn't have a bit of trouble." "Thank you, Ann Frieda." Jennie fished in her purse for money. She lifted her head, suddenly aware. 'Where is Sabra?" The children looked about and absently counted each other. Ann Frieda flushed to her hairline. "She went out, Mrs. Starr... She said it was just for a minute." "But I told you she was to stay in bed... Her throat. She couldn't even have a party because she was so ill." Lance said quickly, "You know how people let Sabra have her way, Mother. Ill go find her." "T'm so sorry, Mrs. Starr." "Was Sabra bad?" asked Lora incredulously. "No!" Jennie stopped and bit her lip. "Sabra is... Sabra... Absent-minded. She wouldn't mean not to obey... She just forgets." Ann Frieda vanished in a great breath of relief at being done with the afternoon. Lance went off like a rocket to look for Sabra. Lora took the candy bar surprise and went back to her room and the paper dolls. Jennie picked Johnny up and took him to the downstairs bedroom to take care of him. Then she washed her hands, and ploughed her way back to the kitchen. She must look for another sitter. The birthday cake she had baked that morning waited for frosting. Jennie pushed John into the high chair, searched for sugar. 25 FEBRUARY 1966 The windows above the sink looked out into the back garden. As Jennie watched, Sabra came through the trees. The place had -been an orchard before the house was built, and Jennie had pleaded that all the trees possible be left untouched. The departing sun had left something of splendor in the air, and it clung in gold light to Sabra's smooth dark hair. Jennie leaned against the sink, the thin sword of love and fear running through her chest. Without her sweater as well... And walking so slowly through the chill... Would the child never learn? What did she find to think about in all the hours she hoarded to herself? Jennie looked at her daughter with troubled eyes. How could a child be one's own and yet be a stranger? Sabra was too thin... Like a small wraith against the trees. Her long hair lifted on the wind, glossy and glowing, combed back from her forehead and kept in place by a band. Sabra's forehead was high and clear and her _ eyes, Jennie sensed, were gatherers of beauty and that was why they had the changing colors. They took the shine from whatever they looked upon, hills or water or skies. "Sabra!" Jennie went to the door and called the name sharply. Sabra looked up and smiled. "Mother... How beautiful you are." Jennie took a step backward. Sabra was the only one of the children who had noticed her hair. Sabra broke into a leaping run. Jennie knew it was the new hair color that drew her and not her harsh command. 26 Sabra put her fingers lightly on Jennie's hair and on her cheeks, as if sight were not enough and she must, through fingertips, draw to her the essence of her mother. Jennie blinked fiercely. She held the bird arms in her cupped palms. Cold... The child was frozen. "How is your throat? Let me see." Sabra obediently opened her mouth. Jennie groaned, sighting the angry red. Sabra pulled away. "Oh, mother, the loveliest thing happened to me today... The very loveliest...." "How do you expect the penicillins to help you, when you deliberately go against them by getting chilled like this?" Jennie realized she was speaking in the high, hard voice she hated. She went on, "Your father and I pay good money for the doctor '.. We do everything in our power....". "Listen, Mother... I know it off by heart... The whole... Whole thing." Jennie rolled her eyes skyward and went back to the mixing bowl. She braced herself to hear one of the interminable poems Sabra adored, or a new Brownie song that made her limp with its familiarity. "Are you listening, Mother?" "Umhm'' Sabra planted her feet firmly apart. She looked out the windows. Jennie saw that tonight the eyes were darkly blue and too bright. '"**".. Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth....'" Jennie held the electric mixer silent in her hand. She looked at Sabra, and slow waves of pain went through her as the words, beloved and cherished of Sabra, fell from her lips and seemed to linger in the dusk. Sabra knew the Beatitudes to the end. "Where did you learn them?" Jenny asked stiffly. "Over at Jean's." "Did they make you learn them?" She kept impatience from her voice with an effort. "No." Sabra was trying a back bend now. '"Jean's church gives them cards with pictures of martyrs and the what did you call them? Beatitudes?" "What made you memorize them?" Jennie asked slowly. "TI wanted to,' Sabra said, "Jean has a big picture of Jesus over her bed, and she told me he was the holiest one who ever lived. Is that true?' She stopped in the act of another back bend. "What is holy?" Jennie bit her lip. "Someone who is very good." "Blessed are the pure in heart," repeated Sabra carefully, 'for they shall see God."' She smiled at Jennie happily, ""That's the best one. That's the one I'm going to keep." Sabra went out of the room, and to Jennie it seemed the child drew with her all the softness and light of the fallen day. Jennie flipped the switch. The kitchen was immediately bright and glittering with chrome and copper. She browned pork chops and made sauce and rice and emptied frozen vegetables into steaming water. WHEAT FOR THE WISE Her mind was filled with memory and with apprehension— memory of that radiant moment when Sabra was first placed in her arms—apprehension and worry over Sabra's future. Even in the beginning a sacred ordinance had been denied. Sabra had not received her name in fast meeting before the saints assembled. She had been denied a father's blessing. Her early years had not been lighted by the gospel. The kitchen still seemed hollow with Sabra's going. Jennie chopped lettuce... "Blessed are the poor in spirit... For theirs is the kingdom of heaven." She looked quickly in the corner, she felt guilty, as if her father might be standing there. But then she saw it was because his chair was against the desk, the chair that she had chosen when they were dividing his things, because he had used it so often. So now she could feel him sitting there still, with his Book of Mormon and his Doctrine and Covenants... And his far-off look, like Sabra's, that look of inward seeing. How the two of them would have got along... Like a house afire. Jennie felt ill. How her father would have looked at her... A grandchild of his having to go to a neighbor's house to learn the Beatitudes. Jennie peeled the tomatoes. Her father, though, was so strict. He had thought there was a penalty for not teaching children. He had taught her... Oh, so carefully, but in the end she had married outside the Church. But she had loved Rex. When she saw him she knew there could 27 JANUARY 1966 never be anyone for her but Rex... It didn't matter what he was... Only Rex. When one married outside the Church... It was only natural to put away the contentious things... As she had done. They didn't count. That is, one just didn't think about those things any more... That is... When one's father died, and there was no one to remind and help. "Blessed are the poor in spired She heard Rex's car in the drive and, in a moment, he came charging in, filling the house with his own brand of electricity. He stopped on the _ threshold when he saw her and made a great thing of covering his eyes when he looked at her hair. He pretended to grope his way to her, "I'm blind... All that brightness. I can't see anything! What did they put on you? Lady Carolee's Sunburst or Lavender Lightning?" "You don't like it?" "Sometimes I feel wistful for the old days when ladies bought hats instead of hair... But then I'm a reactionary." But he was laughing at her... As he loved to do, rejoicing in her femininity and her pretty follies. "You dazzle me, darling!"' He took her in his arms and hugged her with a great and joyous energy. "Peter Mills saw all you ladies having lunch at the Roof today. He said you looked like a convention of possums." "You mean the minks?" His grin teased her. "Now that everybody has one.... Where are the status symbols?" "Joan's is newer.. Jacket.". And a 28 He came over to peer at the cake and to run his finger expertly around the frosting bowl. "Put the music box in?" "Yes, I did." He went over to Johnnie who was beginning to make sounds, lifted him out. "He's wet." "Your turn." "O. K. Where are the others?" "Sabra was out this afternoon... After I told her...." He stopped short, his brows together, "What was the baby sitter doing?" "She's new... Understand Sabra." "She didn't have to understand her... Just keep her inside. Did I tell you what Sabra's temperature was last night?" "It was 104. She scares me." she doesn't Sabra came into the kitchen. She had put on her nightgown and slippers. She leaned against her father. "Why did you go out?" he demanded. Jennie hurried to mute the anger. "Your father was worried about you." But Sabra looked at him without fear. "I went over to see if I knew all the words... And I did." She snuggled against him. "Jean said I could belong to her church... Since I didn't have one of my own." "You what?" Rex's voice rose to a shout. He looked accusingly at Jennie. Jennie hesitated. There was the agreement she and Rex had made before their marriage, no religion ever. But Jennie looked at Sabra's thin face. Does a child rise up from a sick bed and go in search of words for which she has no need? What was it that Sabra had to have that sent her out in the chill October afternoon? Jennie shivered, remembering her father's warning, "A parent is culpable if a child grows up in ignorance." Culpable... Culpa.... Mea culpa. Her father's assertion, "The spiritual hunger in man is God's own longing for his child." "What's going on?" Rex was on the verge of one of his angers. Placate him, said Jennie to herself, but instead she said directly, "Your daughter went to a neighbor to learn that which she was not allowed to learn at home." Rex glared, "With a whole new set of Encyclopedias! Come off it!" "Listen," said Sabra in her light, quick voice, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled." WHEAT FOR THE WISE Rex exchanged a glance with Jennie. He gave Sabra a swift pat, "Run along up to bed. We'll discuss this later.'' Jennie watched the child dance away. She looked at Rex. He was girding himself, she could tell it by looking at him. He was summoning all the logic and arguments and refutations. Jennie straightened her shoulders. She was stepping out on a tight rope. She felt the air under her, and the long fall if she stumbled. The pity of it was she had never taken tight-rope walking lessons. How did one, so foolish and so unready, guide herself and her family safely to the other side. There was no question in her mind as to what was required of her, Sabra had only brought it to the surface, the family need. "No," said Rex firmly. "We're getting along just fine." "Are we?" asked Jennie. (To be continued) JANUARY Linnie F. Robinson January comes knocking at my door Where scattered fragments of the year remain, In tasks attempted or left undone. And where discouragement had grown to pain. But January pushes wide the door— A calendar of days is in his hand; My troubles fall like paper to the floor— New time is mine—the glass is full of sand. And so | take the legacy of hours And treadle at the waiting loom of day; How blithely did | use the springtime up, How prodigal of every summer way. But now these hours in new dimensions shine For | have learned to husband and to ply; The world has in it so much to learn But best of all is time again to try. 29 EDITORIAL '"And Tell of Time"' 'Our times are in his hand, who said a whole | planned...." @ When we consider time and speak of its many meanings, we find no other word that can take its place. Time can be described, and its various elements given individual significance; it can be said that time is a period, a duration, a point of passing, an allotted portion of days or years, or of infinity—thus are definitions given. Time for us here upon the earth is that interval between leaving the Father's ''courts on high" and returning home again. To the Latter-day Saint, time has a revealed and sacred meaning, for we have been given instruction on times past, our pre-existence; the present, our earth life; and the future judgments and glories. Now, at the time of the New Year, there comes a moment in the summation of days, a midnight time of turning, a forward view into the morning of the year, fresh and new, and waiting the inscription of thoughts and deeds, ideals, and accomplishments. It is in this moment between farewell and beginning, that we are impressed again with a blessing of great worth—our families—our ancestors and our posterity. Again we rejoice in the deep roots of the family tree, and in the beauty of the spreading branches—even the tremulous uncertainty of the newest twigs.. In our home evenings, in presenting the gospel heritage to each other, it is well to remember that we are the inheritors of a great treasure of enlightenment; we are the keepers of the treasure; and we are they who must give its shining glory to our children. Recently, as part of a home evening presentation, each member of the family was asked to describe one of the ancestors, to tell where the loved one had been born, his appearance, and his occupation, how and when he became a member of the Church. Then, the other family Volume 53 January 1966 ® Belle S. Spafford, P @ Marianne C. Sharp, @ Louise W. Madsen, © Hulda P. Young, members were asked to make identification of the man or the woman in the line of ancestry. This was a turning of the hearts of the children to another time and place, and to one of the early strong and noble branches of the family tree. Sometimes it is possible to evoke a rewarding evaluation of gospel principles by asking the person, making his description of an early family member, to consider the particular principle of the gospel which first appealed to one newly converted to the Church. In one family, where a ten-year-old had been reading the diary of a great-great-grandfather, he noted the enlightening statement: 'It seemed to me that the principle of continued revelation stood out in great beauty before me, and | felt as if the windows of heaven had been opened wide." The realization that our families, even in pre-existence, were instructed in gospel doctrine, that the Church presently blesses our family organization, gives us strength and wisdom and direction, sheltering us with faith—that by the principles and ordinances of the gospel, the family units can be forwarded into the great stream of time beyond mortality. In all of the family, from the eldest down to the smallest twigs, a sense of strength and security and continuing blessings can be instilled so that all the branches of the family tree shelter and protect the earthly home, and project its counterpart into the timeless eternities. So, in this beginning of the New Year, let us weave together into our lives the treasures from the past; let us live in the present to the full extent of our opportunities; and may we walk by faith into that promised future when the gospel light still will bless our families. —V. P. C. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring EIna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor irene C. Lloyd Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis | 2 21 ek tk eS VT Ramona W. Cannon Helen Hayes, beloved American actress, has written her biography A Gift of Joy (M. Evans and Company, Inc., Publishers) in collaboration with Lewis Funke. She shares with her readers the treasures of love and friendship, favorite people, beloved passages from plays, books, and poetry, indelible experiences on stage and in solitude, personal thoughts, sorrows, and radiant moments that have filled her life. Mrs. Herta Levy, a prominent stockbroker, associated with Paine, Weber, Jackson, and Curtis (New York City) is also a wife, mother, sportswoman, and world traveler. Her sympathetic understanding of the needs of the woman investor permeates the fortyseven offices of her company. Her special assignment is to help wives and widows, business and_ professional women, to establish investment goals and set up programs to meet them. Active in many philanthropies, she serves on the Women's Board of The Foundation for Hearing and Speech Rehabilitation of The Michael Reese Hospital. Ora Pate Stewart, a Latter-day Saint writer, has on the market a charmingly bound and illustrated book of poems covering a wide range of subjects and published by Paragon Press, Incorporated, Salt Lake City. The title of the book is "West Wind Song." Maria Anatassova, a Bulgarian, thirtyfive years old, has become the first woman captain of an airliner. In midOctober she flew a commercial airliner from Bulgaria to London, England. 32 Miss Marie Moua, of the Latter-day Saint French Polynesian Mission, because of her beauty and personality, became Miss Tahiti for 1965. Mrs. J. Armont Willardsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, business woman, has become the national president of the Women's Division of the National Apartment House Owners Association. She was the only woman speaker at the organization's national convention in Oakland, California. Beatrice Majors Van Vleet Burns, wife of the Governor of Hawaii, a busy official hostess, and mistress of the twenty-four room mansion where Queen Lilluokalani lived after the Hawaiian monarchy was overthrown, conducts her numerous responsibilities from a wheel chair. She was stricken with polio thirty years ago and has been unable to walk since that time. She was born in Oregon, a descendant of Colonel Alexander Majors of Pony Express fame. As an army nurse in Hawaii in 1930, she met the present Governor of Hawaii, John Burns, then a student at the University of Hawaii. Mother of three children, an admired homemaker, social and civic worker, as well as a companion and helpmeet to her husband, she is greatly admired for her graciousness and courage. Miss Sharon Moline, a Mormon girl, is Miss Wool of America, and on her tour was received by President Johnson. 4 Bound Volumes of 1965 Magazines Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1965 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1965 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2.00 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1965 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Copies of The Relief Society Magazine index for 1965 for personal binding can be secured from the General Board office for 20¢ prepaid. Volumes bound at the Deseret News Press include a free index. SAMARITAN Sylvia Probst Young You came in that dark hour of my grief, That hour of poignant loneliness and doubt, When hope's small candle suddenly burned out. You came—and was it strange | found relief In tender eyes that spoke your sympathy, And warming strength within your healing hand? | should have known that you would understand, For you have had your own Gethsemane. You had no words to give me, but instead You listened to my torn heart's longing cry, And shared my tears, | cannot wonder why Having you listen left me comforted. My faltering feet you guided—then we found A path of peace—a quiet vale of dawn, You gave me light when all my light was gone— By your solicitude my wounds were bound. | could not tell you then, but oh, my dear, God knew my need and surely sent you here. 33 The Blue Crystal Vase Betty Lou Martin Smith @ Elizabeth Kirk walked the length of her front porch to see if Mr. Jonas, the mailman, was on time. As usual, a woman could set her clock by him. Coming down the block at his steady gait, he waved ahead at Elizabeth. "Nice morning, Mrs. Kirk," he called in his cheerful way. "It looks as if we have a letter for you today." "Thank you, Mr. Jonas," Elizabeth said, as she reached for the envelope. "It is always nice to receive mail, especially when one is alone." Mr. Jonas smiled as he turned to leave. "Have a pleasant day, Mrs. Kirk." The comfortably warm May moming allowed Elizabeth to enjoy the pleasure of her front porch. She spent many lovely afternoons and evenings there, sipping lemonade and eating oatmeal cookies. Instantly Elizabeth recognized the handwriting of her daughter, Camille. She smiled to herself as she looked at the writing. It could hardly be called neat. Camille, the charming, warmhearted, gay one in the family had never been noted for her scholarly ambitions. She was a lovely young girl and had now grown into a lovely woman. Her daughter, Lisa, was a younger version of Camille in looks and personality. She, too, was blonde, blue-eyed, and charming; however there the similarity ended. She was noted for her scholastic record, and for her accuracy and speed in accomplishing whatever she set out to do. Elizabeth was proud of this mother and daughter, and she was happy to learn that Lisa, an only child, would be married in the fall to a young lawyer for 35 JANUARY 1966 whom she had been working during the past year. It was well known in the city that this young lawyer came from a very successful family that occupied an important place in the social life of the city. The letter lay on the porch swing beside Elizabeth, still unopened as her thoughts turned to Lisa. She hoped that being in such a prominent family would not change Lisa; she had been reared well, but her family could hardly be called wealthy in the material things of the world. Elizabeth carefully opened the letter: The last paragraph of the letter read: Lisa's fiancé will be in the East on her birthday, and her father will be away on business, also. It is unfortunate but there is not any way that they will be able to change their plans. Therefore, Lisa and I thought that we would spend that week end with you. She feels that this will be the last time that she will be able to be with you for awhile. If this meets with your approval, and no other member of the family plans to visit you at this time, then we will come. Let me know as soon as you can. Love, Camille. Elizabeth, widowed for a number of years, was excited and happy. She went into the house and immediately answered Camille's letter. It would be pleasant to visit with Camille and Lisa again. It had been such a long time since they had spent a week end with her. Elizabeth gazed about the living room. She must busy herself cleaning before the arrival of Camille and Lisa. The sun cast warm rays about the room, making the worn spots in some of the older furniture 36 even more noticeable. It had been such a long time since Elizabeth had bought any new furniture. She smiled to herself. Somehow she couldn't make up her mind to trade the old furniture in on something new. Slowly Elizabeth walked over to the old china closet in the corner of the room. This she should clean first thing. All of the old dishes must be washed. Opening the glass door, Elizabeth reached inside and tenderly touched one or two of the dishes; then her hand rested upon a blue crystal vase. She picked it up and held it to her. Such a lovely vase, she thought. It had had a great deal of meaning in each of its past owners' lives. It was a wedding present to her Grandmother Daniels. How she had treasured it in her comfortable home in the East. The vase had had a special place upon the mantel, its color complementing the rest of the room. Elizabeth remembered her Grandmother telling her of their conversion to the Latter-day Saint faith. They had left their comforts and their successful life in the East to come to Zion. There just was not room enough to bring luxuries, only the necessities. When the time had come to leave, however, Elizabeth's Grandmother had decided to bring along the vase. Many times in their journey West, Grandmother Daniels had opened the dusty trunk, reached down to the bottom, and brought out the vase. It grew to be a symbol of hope for a bright and beautiful future with their newfound faith. As a child, Elizabeth recalled seeing the vase standing on the table in the modest living room of Grandma Daniels' home. Always when she did her cleaning, Grandmother Daniels would dust the vase first. After Grandma Daniels' death, Elizabeth's mother took the vase. How it had survived the hands of little children wanting to touch it, Elizabeth marveled. Finally, in desperation, Elizabeth's mother had put it above the reach of small hands. It was too much a part of the family to risk having it broken. Elizabeth wondered to whom she should pass on the vase. Carefully she put it back in its place in the closet and gently shut the door. The ensuing days went by a little too slowly for Elizabeth as she anticipated her daughter and pranddaughter's visit. Then, at last, the day arrived, and Camille and Lisa were walking up the sidewalk to the old two-story home. "At last you're here!" Elizabeth hugged her kin affectionately. "I thought that the time would never come. I've been counting the days. Why, you both look wonderful!" "Thank you, Mom. It's wonderful to see you, and you get prettier every day." Camille still had her arms around her Mother. Lisa walked about the living room. "This room never changes, Grandma, and I hope that it never does. I love everything about it." Elizabeth smiled at the words of her granddaughter. "I'm afraid that it is quite old-fashioned, but I like it. And more THE BLUE CRYSTAL VASE important to me, it is just as your grandfather liked it." The evening was spent reminiscing over past days, some happy and some sad. All too soon Lisa yawned and excused herself. "It has been a long drive, Grandma, and I worked extra hard at the office so that I could leave early to drive here. I think that I'll turn in. Goodnight, both of you." Lisa kissed her mother and then her grandmother. "You should be extremely proud of your daughter, Camille; she is a fine, young woman." Elizabeth gently touched Camille's hand. Camille responded in her warm way. "I truly am, Mother. She has been such a good daughter. I only hope that she will be happy in her marriage. You must plan to come to their wedding. They will be married in the temple and then have a reception later on that evening. I hope that everything works out. We are trying to make some plans, and I must admit that I am bewildered already." "Now, don't start worrying; you know that things will work out just fine," Elizabeth reassured Camille. Camille walked to the edge of the porch and looked up at the stars blinking at her. It seemed to Elizabeth that they, too, responded to this lovely lady's warmth. "T know things are going to be fine. It is just that the family she is marrying into is so socially conscious and proper that it worries me." Elizabeth walked to her daughter's side. "Do you remember what I always told you when 37 JANUARY 1966 you were growing up? Just be yourself. People should not expect that you be any less or any more. I hope that Lisa will remember that." Camille's eyes met her mother's. "I am sure that she will. I don't think that this marriage will change her, but one never knows." "Oh, come now, Camille, you don't think that she has changed, do you?" Elizabeth questioned. Camille suddenly changed the subject in her known fashion. "It seems like only yesterday that she was born, and, just think, Sunday she will be twenty-one years old. Where does the time go, Mother?" "IT don't know, Camille. It seems only yesterday that you were a little girl yourself. I can still see you running into the house excitedly from school with some earth-shaking news to tell me, or trying to beat your older brothers and sister out of the frosting bowl."' Elizabeth paused. "You see, my dear, this house is full of memories. I will be standing at the kitchen sink doing my dishes, and I can almost hear your Father's_ footsteps coming up the walk and his calling out, 'I'm home; where's my family?' " Elizabeth's voice suddenly became choked. It was more than she could bear to go over the past. It seemed so much a part of her present. "Let's go in now, Mother. It is getting chilly out here." Camille sensed her mother's mood and took her by the hand. In the middle of the night when Lisa and Camille were asleep, Elizabeth tried to plan Lisa's birthday celebration. She 38 expecially wanted it to be pleasant for her granddaughter before they had to return to the city. They would start out the day with Sunday School and return home to a birthday dinner. I should give her a present, Elizabeth mused, but what could it be? I don't have the money to buy her anything elaborate, and I do so want to give her something which she will like. Pll have to find something tomorrow. Elizabeth dropped off to sleep. "Can't anyone ever get up before you do? I thought that you would sleep in this morning, Lisa." Elizabeth walked down the stairs to see her granddaughter admiring her dishes in the old china closet. Lisa turned to her grandmother. "I had such a wonderful rest last night, that I couldn't stay in bed another minute. There is just something about this country air." Elizabeth made her way to the kitchen. 'Well, Ill have breakfast ready in a moment. I see your mother is still a late sleeper. I guess that we will have to eat without her." "May I help you, Grandma?" Lisa followed her grandmother into the kitchen. "No dear, but you can sit down and talk to me." The early morning light reflected upon Lisa's skin, making it appear almost transparent. '""You know, Grandmother, your dishes are just beautiful. I'll bet they mean a great deal to you." "You are right, my dear. Some of them belonged to your Greatgrandmother, and many of them were wedding gifts. They are THE BLUE CRYSTAL VASE peautiful." Elizabeth loved her time. She could hear Lisa stirring pretty dishes, and she was always in her room. Ready to show them off. "Grandmother, dinner was just "J am especially fond of the scrumptious, and Sunday School 0) elegant. It is almost too day has been one Tl always Te i 1 Lisa pushed herself Lisa. It belonged to my mother glad that we decided 'to come. It and to my grandmother. They would have been 2 lonesome poth guarded it diligently. I was birthday with Jack in the East ances. Elizabeth still couldn't 1 have 4 little gift for you, MY find anything that she felt was dear. | wish that it could be suitable for Lisa. She bought her more." q birthday card with a meaningGoing to the buffet, Elizabeth ful verses however, none of the reached inside and brought out items that she looked at appealed the package wrapped in different to her. She did so want to give shades of rose and handed it to Lisa a gilt. She would just have Lisa. To find an appropriate minutes earlier. She dressed careing. She hoped with all i. That Lisa wou d like th she had chosen for SST iy] Maybe it wouldn't be good Slowly Lisa opened the present enough to put in Lisa's new home. And then exclaimec "Qh, GrandI could just BV" her the card, ™* the blue crystal vase! 1 could Elizabeth rationalized. Lisa would never accept It: understand her position. Elizabeth felt herself sinking Elizabeth added the finishing inside as she slumped into a chair, touches to the package just in Lisa had changed after all. She JANUARY 1966 didn't want the gift. It was not good enough now. When she had been a little girl, she had always been so grateful for the least little show of affection. Elizabeth let her thoughts run rampant. "Mother, you shouldn't have," Elizabeth heard Camille saying as if she were somewhere in the distance. Lisa rose from her chair and walked over to Elizabeth, kneeling before the older woman. "Grandma, I couldn't this beautiful possession from you. I know how much it is treasured by you, and how much you hold it dear." "Lisa!" Tears appeared in Elizabeth's eyes. "I wanted you to have it. I know that it won't compare with the gifts that you will receive at your wedding...." "Oh, Grandma, it couldn't be compared with the other gifts. It will be far superior to them. I have always wanted that vase, ever since I was a little girl, but I never dared hope that it would ever be mine. It will have a take special place on the mantel in our new home for all to admire. You will see it, too, when you come to visit us." "Well," Camille said, "how do you like that? I have always wanted that vase, too." She laughed. "But I am thrilled that you gave it to Lisa." The sharp ring of the telephone pierced the atmosphere. "That must be Jack; he was going to call me here at three o'clock. I can hardly wait to tell him about the vase." Camille walked over to the table and picked up the vase. "Mother, if this vase could only talk, it could tell quite a story, couldn't it?" Elizabeth stood by her daughter. "It is telling a story, Camille. Why do you think that it appears more beautiful as the years go on?" Camille held the vase up, and it seemed to reflect even more brilliantly than before. It did indeed have a story to tell, this blue crystal vase. TRAVELING Zara Sabin Oh, | have been far-traveling Unto a foreign land; Took pictures of the public squares And buildings tall and grand; Stood countless hours in galleries, Silent at beauty's shrine, Storing my heart and brain and mind With color, blend and line. | loitered in the little shops That dot each thoroughfare And fingered linens and fine lace— Exquisite and rare; Then strolled about the market-place And down the avenue, Sought signs that told of language known And thought of home, and you. Yes, | have been far-traveling, But hope to make it plain The best of all the journeying Was coming home again. 40 the Home inside and out MY LITTLE BREAD AND BUTTER LIFE Catherine B. Pratt Age eighty-three | love my bread and butter life Nor would | change it for another. I'm just an average sort of wife, An ordinary sort of mother. | feel that fancy things are vain Like caviar on gold-trimmed dishes, Contentedly, | find my plain Old bread and butter is delicious. For me there's no monotony Because of one-meal repetition, And | look forward gratefully To each meal's pleasure and nutrition. | know that others yearn for more And find my bread and butter meager; But, often, all they're looking for Leaves them somewhat more bored than eager, And | have friends that | love dearly, Whose lives are bread and butter, too. We share our simple tastes and clearly Old-hat, old-fashioned point of view. So let those who desire their pheasant With its accompanying strife, Have all they want. What | find pleasant? My little bread and butter life! Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions Part III — BREAD AND ROLLS Rosa Shurtz BASIC PRIZE-WINNING ROLL DOUGH 4 c. Reconstituted dried milk, lukewarm 1 c. Sugar 4 cakes dried yeast 4 eggs 4 tsp. Salt 1 c. Cooking oil 14 c. Sifted flour Dissolve sugar and yeast in warm milk. When yeast becomes active, add wellbeaten eggs and enough flour to make a medium batter. Beat well and let set until bubbles begin to form. Beat in salt and cooking oil and add rest of flour, beating well. When too thick to beat, pour onto floured board and knead until smooth and elastic. The secret of this dough is to use only enough flour to be able to handle it. It should be as soft as possible, almost sticky. Place in greased bowl! And cover with damp cloth. Let rise until double in bulk and punch down well. Let rise again. Divide dough into easily handled portions and let rest about 15 minutes. Pat out on floured board to about 14 inch thick. Cut with biscuit cutter. Place close together on greased flat pans. Let rise until light. Bake 12 to 20 minutes (depending on size) in 425° oven. Brush with melted butter when they come from oven. This dough can be shaped into any form desired. The rolls freeze well. VARIATIONS OF BASIC PRIZE-WINNING ROLL DOUGH HERB BREAD Add to basic mixture: 2 tsp. Nutmeg 4 tsp. Dried sage 8 tsp. Caraway seeds Let rise as in basic recipe, make into loaves. Let rise. Bake at 375° for 35 minutes. 42 THE HOME INSIDE AND OUT ORANGE ROLLS After second rising, roll dough into oblongs, spread with some of following filling. Roll as for cinnamon rolls. Place some of filling in pan and put rolls in cut side down. Let rise. Bake at 375° about 25 minutes. Turn out on large tray at once. Filling: 2 c. Sugar 4 tbsp. Grated orange rind 1 c. Orange juice and pulp 1 c. Butter Cook 2 minutes, cool until thick. CHRISTMAS CAKE When mixing basic dough add: 4 tsp. Powdered cardamon 1 c. Chopped citron 2 c. Golden seedless raisins Bake in round loaves 350° 30 minutes. STOLLEN After second rising of basic dough, turn onto lightly floured board and knead in: 2 c. Slivered almonds 1 c. Cut-up citron 1 c. Candied cherries 4 tbsp. Grated lemon rind Pat out dough into ovals 8 by 12 inches. Spread with soft butter. Fold in two, the long way. Form into crescents. Press edges firmly, place on greased, heavy, baking sheets. Let rise until double. Bake at 375° 30 minutes. Brush with melted butter. Fruity Filling 8 c. Chopped apples 4 c. Golden seedless raisins 4 c. Brown sugar 2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Cinnamon Boil one minute and cool. Use to fill tea rings, braids, twists, and kolach. Nuts may be added. BOHEMIAN BRAID After second rising of basic dough, knead in: 4 tsp. Grated lemon rind 14 tsp. Mace 2 c. Golden seedless raisins 2 c. Chopped nuts Divide dough into equa! Strips about 14 inches long. Place on greased baking sheets about an inch apart and braid loosely, beginning at the middle, working toward the ends. Seal ends well. Let rise until double in bulk. Bake at 350° about 30 to 35 minutes. Ice with powdered sugar icing while still warm. 43 A "Quick" Quilt for a Child's Bed Min VanBrandwijk @ An inexpensive and handy quilt for a child's bed can be made quickly from used cotton material and discarded nylon stockings. The quilt can be entirely machine sewed. It is warm, but light in weight, and can be machine washed. Children find the quilt convenient to take outdoors for use when they are sitting on the lawn. It also makes a "'cushiony'' mat for the floor when children are playing or watching television. Make 8" x 8" squares from old sheets or other washed cotton material. Fold each square from corner to corner to make a triangle. Cut a nylon stocking down the back and fold and fit it into each triangle. Stitch the triangle by machine along the edges and down the middle. Do not turn in the edges of the padded triangle. Make a square by stitching four triangles together, lapping the thin edges on the machine. You may use a zig-zag stitch or a plain stitch for this. Then stitch into strips of as many squares as you need for the desired size of quilt. (Five strips of six squares each will make a quilt 40''x48''.) To cover the quilt, lay flat on the table a piece of new material or used material double the size of the desired quilt, with small allowances for turned in edges. Lay the padded strips, which have been stitched together into one piece, on one half of the covering material. Fold over the other half, and pin the edges. Mark a pattern (a series of rectangles in graduating sizes, or any design desired) on the quilt and stitch the pattern on the machine, or by hand, if preferred. Turn in the edges and finish with stitching. The quilt makes an acceptable gift for a baby shower or for a child's birthday. Bath mats can be made in a similar way, by using toweling for the cover. Ties of yarn or colored heavy crochet cotton could be used for attaching the cover of the mat, since the toweling might be too heavy to stitch on the machine. If preferred, the ''quilting'' for the mat could be done by hand. 8" 8" lay stocking in lower half make 4 of these fold over and stitch triangles into a square 44 A "QUICK" QUILT FOR A CHILD'S BED make strip of these squares to _ required size—all by machine ae) Stitch pattern when covered RESPITE Rowena Jensen Bills Restlessly | wandered where the mountain Skims the sky, Heard the echo of my loneliness in Soft winds passing by, Felt the well-deep crush of heartache From a last goodbye, Then in the hush of memory | hid My face to cry.... Till silent prayers assuaged my sorrows, Comforted me at length, And | walked down into tomorrow with Renewed and lasting strength! ERRATUM: Credits for the Christmas decorative items on pages 917-918 for December 1965 should go to Marian Johnson, work meeting leader of Hillside Stake. 45 )Watercress J3 1 VY, @If you know of a meadow that is fed by little streams, you are more than likely to find watercress growing. You will also find it in the produce section of your market, where it comes from farms which grow it commercially. This peppery-tasting and many-leaved plant adds zest to salads and hors d'oeuvres. It also adds to the nutrition in the diet because it is very rich in minerals, and particularly high in vitamins A and C. The people of the past, the Persians, Greeks, Romans, and Chinese recognized this plant as an important part of their diets. They knew that it improved their health, but they didn't analyze it in terms of vitamins or minerals. The Chinese make a delicious soup using watercress. It is a light and appetizing prelude to a meal. Watercress Soup—Chinese Style Prepare 1 c. Watercress. This is the only time-consuming part of the whole process, but well worth it. Wash the watercress thoroughly, take off the leaves, save some of the stems if you like, to chop up and sprinkle in a green salad. Set aside the leaves in the refrigerator. Heat one quart chicken stock and add 2 or 3 chopped green onions. While the stock is simmering, beat two eggs plus two tbsp. Water. Add the egg mixture while the chicken stock is boiling. The egg will form in strings (as you have seen in Chinese soups in the restaurants). Remove from the fire as soon as the egg strings seem firm. Now remove the watercress leaves from the refrigerator and chop them. Add the watercress the last minute when you are ready to serve. Let the family or guests add their seasonings to taste. Remember the watercress is quite peppery in flavor. A dash of nutmeg is appetizing, also. 46 Catherine B. Pratt Finds Many Uses for Greeting Cards Catherine 'Billeter Pratt, who was born in Zurich, Switzerland, was brought by her parents to Utah in 1884, when she was two years old. She married William Parker Pratt, grandson of Parley P. Pratt, and they became the parents of fifteen children. There are now forty-four grandchildren, thirty-five greatgrandchildren, as well as many step-grandchildren and step-great-grandchildren. Over the years, Mrs. Pratt has received thousands of beautiful greeting cards—for her birthdays, for Christmas, for Valentine's Day, Easter, Mother's Day, and other occasions. Finding these cards ''too beautiful to throw away," Mrs. Pratt has made colorful scrapbooks for children, especially for children's hospitals; and she has included greeting cards with special messages in Books of Remembrance, in family histories, and in photograph albums. She finds her "happy hobby' to be inexpensive, interesting, and important to herself, her family, and to her many friends. Her hobby is a way of keeping the time and the people and the places that might be lost or forgotten otherwise... A way of/remembering words of encouragement and friendship to mark the years and the seasons of a long and lovely life. Mrs. Pratt loves to write and read poetry, and she especially loves the poetry which appears in The Relief Society Magazine. She has been a member of the Tabernacle Choir and has served many years as a Relief Society visiting teacher. ''My main hobby is people,'' she says, ''and | believe that if we do the best we can, the Lord meets us halfway." 47 Helen M. Peterson @ "It is simply impossible to save money these days!" I heard one young woman tell another, recently. "Everything costs so much!" she said. This mother told about giving her children modest allowances. Her fouryear-old received fifty cents a week; the three school-age youngsters each received one dollar a week. I listened to the two young mothers discussing the issue, but my thoughts drifted back to when money was scarce indeed, and the only way we could build up a "little nest egg" was to save one penny at a time. It was during the depression days. Father's income was very meager. Every cent he earned was desperately needed to buy necessities for everyday living; yet mother insisted we must save something for a rainy day. A day when an emergency might 48 arise and we would need available cash to meet the situation. So it was that we were encouraged to eke out a penny, a nickle, or a dime, whenever we could, and store it away in a little tin cup. Mother let us children take turns dropping coins into the little tin cup. We kept track of the money. Pennies were exchanged for dimes; dimes were exchanged for dollars. Slowly, but eventually, dollar bills turned into fives. When emergencies arose—and they did as they do in all households—the money saved came in very handy. Like the time Reggie fell and skinned his knee coming home from school. Normally, Mom would clean the injured skin—in this case the knee —with alcohol, put on a sterile dressing, and the wound would heal with no complications. But Reggie's knee didn't heal. Infection set in. The doctor bill, plus medications, came to over sixty dollars, and we were all glad that our nest egg had enough money to meet the obligation. Mostly the unexpected emergencies which arose were illnesses of some kind, but there were times when situations arose which called for a family council to decide whether or not the situation was important enough to be considered an emergency, and merited taking money from "our little nest egg'? To meet the expenses. I remember the day Julie came home and said, ''Mom, I won first in the 'Declam Contest' today, and I'm eligible to enter the regional contest."' There was no dissent among the family to take needed cash from the tin cup to pay for Julie's lunch and bus fare, for the contest was held/in a hearby city and didn't cost much. And when Julie won the regional and was eligible to enter the district contest seventy miles distant, all agreed that the few dollars needed to cover expenses could be taken from '"'the nest egg." When Julie came home from the district contest, wearing the OUR LITTLE NEST EGG blue ribbon, and stating that now she' was eligible for the state contest, we were all very proud of her, indeed. Although the state contest was being held 300 miles away, Julie's expenses were quite nominal, for contestants were given a special rate for transportation and lodging. Now, there was no question of where the money was coming from to send Julie to that state contest. This was an emergency—and we had saved toward it. Two days before the planned departure for the state contest, Julie came home from school in tears. She had heard that all the other contestants were being accompanied by their mothers. That was the first time our "little nest egg'"" was emptied to meet an emergency other than sickness. When Mother and Julie returned from the state contest, and Julie had won first in the declaration contest, we were all very proud that we, in a small way, had been a part of it. Many times, over the years, our coffer was emptied, and temporarily our feeling of security would wane, but always we started right over again saving our pennies so that we'd have a "'little nest egg"' to meet an emergency which might arise. ACROSS THE MILES Gladys Hesser Burnham Across the miles our handclasp would reach out In friendship that has lasted through the years. Never for a moment would | doubt That | could count on you through joys and tears. 49 wae Relief Society Activities Directions for Submitting Notes From the Field THE Notes From the Field section of The Relief Society Magazine presents through pictures and descriptive paragraphs the varied group activities and accomplishments of Relief Society organizations in the stakes and missions of the Church. All material for this department should be addressed to the Editorial Department of The Relief Society Magazine, and be submitted by stake Relief Society presidents or mission supervisors. Due to space restrictions, not more than one picture from a stake or mission can be presented during a calendar year. Pictures of an individual cannot be used in this department. Due to the considerable duplication of some special aspects of Relief Society work in the material submitted by stakes and missions, the General Board reserves the right to select pictures which represent a variety of interests. Time of Submission The picture, with complete information, should be submitted as soon after the event as possible, but cannot be used in the Magazine if it is received later than two months after the event. Information to Be Included The date of the event should be listed, and the names of Relief Society officers and others who have fulfilled special assignments with reference to the function or event should be listed. A woman's given name and her last name should be used, not her husband's given name (i. E., Ellen Jackson, not Sister Fred Jackson). In the case of a Singing Mothers group, the names of the chorister and the accompanists, as well as stake and ward officers present, should be given. Do not list more than fifteen names for any one picture. The identifications should read from left to right. No information except the name of the stake or mission written lightly so as not to deface the picture should be given on the back of the picture. Additional information may be included in the letter of submittal or written on a separate page. Preparations for Taking Picture It is suggested that wherever possible a professional photographer be engaged to take the picture. In arranging the group to have the picture taken, be sure that all the faces are visible. Seat the sisters in short rows, so that the faces will be visible. Where handwork or food is displayed, special attention in arranging the background will be helpful, as light-colored articles will not show up well against a light background. 50 Bear River Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Joint Convention and Singing Mothers Concert March 27, 1965 Seated, in front: Louise Pugsley, Park Valley; and Marion Arbon, Curlew. Standing at the back: Zilla Hess and Jane Hess, Belmont Ward. Olive W. Durfey, President, Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Bear River Stake Relief Society honored the visiting teachers at a joint convention and Singing Mothers concert March 27, 1965. The program started with the reading of an original tribute by Lawonza Wassom. Special honors and beautiful corsages were presented to four visiting teachers (as pictured above) with the outstanding records of fifty years each, or 200 years of faithful service in that capacity. All other visiting teachers of the stake were presented with an inscribed ballpoint pen. "The lovely musical program 'A Singing Mother Sings' was arranged under the leadership of President Durfey and her Counselors Effie Potter and Anna Durfey, and music directors Lucretia Rhodes and Rennis Larkin. Jeanine Kent was narrator of the spiritual script written by President Durfey. The Singing Mothers chorus, composed of singers from each of the nine wards, consisted of 125 members. Each number was introduced by an original script. A piano solo 'Fantasie Impromptu,' by Chopin, was played by Marilyn Johnson during the interlude of the program." 51 JANUARY 1966 Holladay Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Third Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at Luncheon Party June 2, 1965 Selma Wall (at left), eldest visiting teacher, presented with gift by Diane F. Emery, youngest visiting teacher. Maurine B. Folsom, President, Holladay Stake Relief Society, reports: "Visiting teachers of the Holladay Third Ward Relief Society, who had achieved a perfect record of visiting all of the homes for the past two years, were honored at a luncheon party. The youngest visiting teacher, Diane F. Emery, age nineteen, presented a gift to Sister Wall in behalf of the organization. More than half of the visiting teachers received special awards because they did not miss one month of teaching the entire year." Central German Mission, Dusseldorf Branch Displays Quilt at Mission Relief Society Conference June 17, 1965 Left to right: Karin Schliewen; Adelheid Fritsch; Grete Kessler; Anna Marie Kutschke, President, Central German Mission Relief Society; Emma Lange; Ruth W. Benson, Supervisor, Central German Mission Relief Society; Elizabeth Priestnitz, President, Diisseldorf Branch Relief Society. Sister Kutschke reports: 'The spirit of our first Relief Society Mission Conference was wonderful, and all returned to their branches with a feeling of gratitude for the Priesthood and the blessings of Relief Society, and with a greater determination to improve their organizations and help to bring others into activity. The theme of the conference was 'Strengthen the ties that bind us together.' "The Relief Society chorus, under the direction of Christina C. Van Hulten, furnished the music for the first session. Martha Otto was honored as being the eldest Relief Society sister, having been a member for forty years; and Marta Tobeck was honored as the youngest, having been a member fourteen days. Many lovely handmade articles were on display, and some were demonstrated. The Diisseldorf Branch displayed their first quilt, which was also the first one made by Relief Society in the mission. Of interest, also, was the style show, with lovely dresses and children's clothing, as well as a great variety of aprons. The film "The Awakening' was shown, and the conference ended with a fine spiritual testimony meeting." Sister Benson comments: "Last Sunday (Aug. 30) was a great day in our mission. We had our first two new buildings dedicated. The sisters are thrilled with their new Relief Society rooms." French Mission, Riyadh (Saudi Arabia) Branch Relief Society Left to right: Linda Bell, social science class leader; Irene Besner, theology class leader; Shayla DeMille, President; Carol Warner. In a letter giving information regarding this branch of the French Mission, President Cecil E. Hart, reports: "We are in regular contact with the group through Brother Melvin J. Stanford, branch leader of the group... And they do come within our... Guidance." Sister Besner, who submitted the picture, tells us that the members of the Riyadh Branch are "adding another country to the list which have Relief Society organizations. Our group hold our meetings in our own homes." 52 JANUARY 1966 Weber Heights Stake (Ogden, Utah), Uintah Ward Relief Society Participates in Stake Dressmaking Project Picture taken June 24, 1965 Front row, beginning fourth from the left; ward leaders: Madaline Pringle, Secretary-Treasurer; Kathryn Halverson, Work Counselor; Sharon Wright, Education Counselor; Marian Stewart, President; Carna Miller, dressmaking Hilda Halverson reports: "Following the December 1964 work meeting lesson, "Personal Appearance and Its Influence on Happiness," a stake-wide Santa Rosa Stake (California), Greenbrae-San Rafael Singing Mothers Present Concert May 7, 1965 Standing, front, left: Joan Smith, chorister, Greenbrae Ward; right: Patricia Russell, pianist, San Rafael Ward. Beulah C. Gwynn, President, Santa Rosa Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of thirty Singing Mothers from our two southern wards presented a concert on May 7th for the members and friends of the Santa Rosa Stake. These sisters were highly trained, having practiced for many months as well as daily for two weeks before the concert. The program consisted of fifteen numbers by the Singing Mothers and violin and piano solos by guest artists Polly Estes Holbrook and Juanita Cunningham, nonmembers of the Church. "These sisters also sang for our May open-house event, and for the stake quarterly conference." Alameda Stake (Pocatello, Idaho), Seventeenth Ward Visiting Teachers Achieve Ten Years of 100 Per Cent Visiting Teaching June 1, 1965 Left to right: Front row, Della Packer; Crilla Williams; Tura Hadley; Nola Duerdon; Florist Dawson; Mavis Kirkman; Betty Karlson. Second row, Johanna Fowler; Jean Burpee; Mary Redington; Della Jolley; Ella Mae Hunter; Almira Allen; Lucille Weight; Vera Chatterton. Third row, Hazel Ranstrom; Luella Hansen; Margaret Satterfield; Lena Bauer; Wilma Anderson; Vera Prouse; Mary Evans; Stella Price. Back row, Abbie Rawlins; Anna Ranstrom; Merna Rady; Florence Larsen; Vida Merrill; Juanita Fiala; Helen Evans; Louise Perkins; Beth Bloxham; Frances Walters. Wilma Myers, President, Alameda Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The visiting teachers of the Seventeenth Ward have achieved a 100 per cent record through ten years. Many of these sisters have completed the ten years. On June 1, 1965, the visiting teachers were honored, and each was presented a picture in appreciation of the wonderful work they have completed and are now doing." 54 JANUARY 1966 Highland Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Crystal Heights Ward Visiting Teachers Honored at Closing Social June 2, 1965 Left to right: Adeline Dunn; Beatrice Cobb; Mary Cottrell; Carol Johnson, President, Crystal Heights Ward Relief Society. Eva A. Sipkema, President, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "The highlight of the closing social of the Crystal Heights Ward was the special recognition given to the visiting teachers who had served the most years. Sister Dunn had served forty-seven years, and Sister Cobb had served forty-three years. They were each presented a Relief Society pin. Sister Cottrell had served sixty-one years and was given a lovely piece of jewelry. Sister Cottrell had been honored previously by Highland Stake Relief Society as the visiting teacher who had given the most years of service in the stake. At that time she was presented with a lovely Relief Society necklace. She has recently celebrated her eightieth birthday, but still visits her district faithfully each month. Atlanta Stake (Georgia) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference May 30, 1965 Seated, front, right: Jane Turvairlle, chorister, who trained and conducted the group; seated on the bench, next to Sister Turvairlle: Patricia Googe, organist; second row, second from the left: First Counselor Verna Ujlivens; third row, fourth from the left: Barbara Blake, Magazine representative; eighth from the left on the same row: Dorothy Robinson, Secretary-Treasurer. Stake Relief Society President is Joyce P. Selin. Former President Gladys C. Garner submitted the picture. Rarotonga Mission (Cook Islands) Relief Society Holds Bazaar May 15, 1965 Left to right: Inez S. Moody, Supervisor, Rarotonga Mission Relief Society; Ngametua Papera, President, Avarua Branch Relief Society; Araia Mateara, President, Arorangi Branch; Lucile R. Jones, President, Rarotonga Mission Relief Society; Pauline Mitchell, First Counselor, Avarua Branch; Ngametua Tuaputa, First Counselor, Arorangi Branch; Pativai Mataio, work meeting leader. Sister Jones reports: "Our mission is in its infancy, just five years old. We are very happy with the results of our mission bazaar, and with the wonderful way our sisters rallied to make it such a success. Five branches, representing three islands, united to make this possible: Rarotonga (Avarua, Ngatangiia, and Arorangi Branches), Aitutaki, and Mangaia. "A wide assortment of articles was attractively displayed, including quilts, feather fans, mats, children's clothing, cushions, aprons, native baskets, brooms, and assorted foods. The bazaar was a complete sell-out, and we collected approximately $280, which was excellent for our mission. Almost all of the proceeds were eagerly turned over for the beautiful new Arorangi chapel, which has just been completed. Everyone was delighted with the success of the bazaar, and a spirit of true sisterhood prevailed." 56 Y vwwre eo Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 71 — The Word of Wisdom — A Life-Giving Revelation (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 89:4-21) For First Meeting, April 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for September 1966 Objective: To recognize the prophetic element in the Word of Wisdom, understand its positive teachings and appreciate the spiritual blessings available to the individual who keeps the commandments therein. BACKGROUND Section 89, known as the Word of Wisdom, was received in 1833 as a revelation from God. The Lord gave his people counsel in this revelation that they might not be deceived by the adversary. It has been demonstrated by science that alcohol, tobacco, tea, and coffee are not good for man, as stated by the Lord. The Word of Wisdom is prophetic in revealing that "conspiring men" will seek to deceive mankind. The literal fulfillment of this prophecy further confirms Joseph Smith as a prophet of the Lord. A NOTABLE PROPHECY In order to prevent the Latterday Saints from being deceived, the Lord forewarned them against the wiles of men. Specifically given in the revelation on the 58 Word of Wisdom is the following prophecy of the last days: Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation (D&C 89:4). President David O. McKay describes some of the methods that are used to deceive mankind: "Evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men....." The purport of that impressed me in the twenties and the thirties of this century. I just ask you men tonight to recall the methods employed by certain tobacco interests to induce women to smoke cigarettes. You remember how insidiously they launched their plan. First, by saying that it would reduce weight. They had a slogan: "Take a cigarette instead of a sweet." Later, some of us who like the theatre, noticed that they would have a young lady light the gentleman's cigarette. Following this a woman's hand would be shown on billboards lighting or taking a cigarette. A year or two passed and soon they were brazen enough to show the lady on the screen or on the billboard smoking a cigarette. I find here a clipping which I set aside in the early thirties, which corroborates this idea. This is 1931: "It is well known that the cigarette manufacturers are after the young women and girls, now. They say there are twenty-five million of these in the United States, and if they can popularize smoking among them, they will be able to increase their sales from three billion, six hundred million dollars annually to six billion dollars. This is their claim and their aim." Now, it is common to see beautiful young women depicted on billboards, and in the popular journals advertising certain brands of cigarettes. ""Last year three of the large cigarette manufacturers, we are informed, spent fifty-four million dollars in advertising their wares. This is probably a greater outlay than has ever before been spent to popularize any kind of merchandise...." I may be wrong, but I thought I saw an indication recently that conspiring men now have evil designs upon our youth. Keep your eyes and ears open, to observe if they are not taking the same steps now to get our young men as they did to entice women to use that vile weed (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 185- 186). TOBACCO — ITS EFFECTS In the Word of Wisdom the Lord said this about tobacco: And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for LESSON DEPARTMENT bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill (D&C 89:8). That tobacco is not good for man has been demonstrated in many ways both in the laboratory and in the lives of individuals. Since much publicity has been given to the high incidence of lung cancer to cigarette smoking, a controversy has raged between the tobacco industry and public agencies over the cause of lung cancer. Studies, however, have disclosed that the risk of lung cancer is greatly increased by cigarette smoking. WINE OR STRONG DRINK In the Word of Wisdom the Lord condemns the use of alcohol, as follows: That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong drink among you, behold it is not good, neither meet in the sight of your Father, only in assembling yourselves together to offer up your sacraments before him. And, behold, this should be wine, yea, pure wine of the grape of the vine, of your own make (D&C 89:5-6). In an earlier revelation, the Lord instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith by an angel that wine was unnecessary in the sacrament, but any liquid could be used as long as it was done with an eye single to the glory of God. (Ibid., 27:2-4.) Water is used as a sacramental emblem today in the Church. From the beginning of this dispensation to the present, drunkenness and the use of alcohol, except for medicinal purposes, have been condemned by the prophets. An impressive thought in connection with the Word of Wisdom and moderate drinking is given by President McKay in these words: 59 JANUARY 1966..- I am glad when I study this passage, to find that the Lord did not say, "Strong drink to excess is not good;" nor "Drunkenness is not good." Suppose he had weakened that expression by modifying it and saying, "Strong drink in excess, or when taken in large quantities, is not good," how soon we should have justified ourselves that a little drink is good. But like other eternal truths it stands un-. Qualified; "strong drink is not good" (Conference Report, April 1911, page 62). Parents who, even though observing the Word of Wisdom themselves, serve alcoholic beverages to guests in their homes, are subjecting their children to influences which adversely affect their attitudes. We are reminded of the counsel of President George Albert Smith not to step over into the devil's territory. HOT DRINKS The Word of Wisdom does not use the words tea and coffee, yet Latter-day Samts have been instructed that "hot drinks" used in verse 9 of section 89, refers to these beverages. Hyrum Smith, the brother of the Prophet, in a sermon of May 29, 1842, made such a definition.... And again, "hot drinks are not for the body, or belly; there are many who wonder what this can mean; whether it refers to tea or coffee, or not. I say it does refer to tea, and coffee (Times and Seasons, Vol. III, page 800). President Brigham Young on October 30, 1870 said:.:. I have heard it argued that tea and coffee are not mentioned therein; that is very true; but what were the people in the habit of taking as hot drinks when that revelation was given? Tea and coffee. We were not in the habit of drinking water very hot, but tea and coffee — the beverages in common use (Journal of Discourses 13:277). 60 "WHOLESOME HERBS" In addition to specifying certain harmful products that man should not partake of, the revelation advises the use of grains, vegetables, fruits, and meat sparingly. It also mentions certain grains for the use of animals. These are known as the positive aspects of the Word of Wisdom. In these words, we find counsel: And again, verily I say unto you, all wholesome herbs God hath ordained for the constitution, nature, and use of man — | Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving (D&C 89:10-11). It has been pointed out that "wholesome herbs" as used in Joseph Smith's day meant all plants and vegetables. "IN THE SEASON THEREOF" Some few readers of the Word of Wisdom assume that because herbs and fruits should be eaten "in the season thereof" modern methods of food preservation are disapproved. It is true that fruits should be eaten when ripe and vegetables when mature to obtain the most nutrition from them, but it is neither logical nor scientific to maintain that they should not be used at a time when they are not available in the fresh state if they are properly preserved. MEAT IS ORDAINED FOR MAN Yea, flesh also of beasts and of the fowls of the air, I, the Lord, have ordained for the use of man with thanksgiving; nevertheless they are to be used sparingly; And it is pleasing unto me that they should not be used, only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. All grain is ordained for the use of man and of beasts, to be the staff of life, not only for man but for the beasts of the field, and the fowls of heaven, and all wild animals that run or creep on the earth; And these hath God made for the use of man only in times of famine and excess of hunger (D&C 89: 12-15). Two years before this revelation was received the Lord said to forbid meat on religious grounds was not of him. Moreover, beasts and fowls were provided for man's food and raiment, but man was not to waste animal life by wanton killing. ([bid., 49:18-21.) WHEAT FOR MAN Wheat is not the only grain for man, but it is the best, according to the Word of Wisdom. All grain is good for the food of man; as also the fruit of the vine; that which yieldeth fruit, whether in the ground or above the ground—-Nevertheless, wheat for man... (D&C 89: 16-17). Wheat has long been recognized by man as a good food, and nutritional science has found that this grain will promote bodily strength, greater resistance against infections, freedom from many deficiency and degenerative diseases, and endurance. ANIMAL FOODS Section 89 recommends that certain grains are of greater value to some animals than to others.... And corn for the ox, and oats for the horse, and rye for the fowls and for swine, and for all beasts of the field, and barley for all useful animals, and for mild drinks, as also other grain (D&C 89:17). "AND ALL SAINTS WHO REMEMBER..." The saints who remember to keep the commandments, includLESSON DEPARTMENT ing the Word of Wisdom, are promised that they will receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones. (D&C 89:18.) The two expressions, "health in their navel and marrow to their bones," are meaningful in the light of present-day knowledge. The unborn baby is nourished and may also be _ poisoned through the navel or umbilicus. Bone marrow manufactures the various blood cells needed for health. WALKING OBEDIENTLY There have been some who. Have thought that by obediently living the Word of Wisdom the blessings promised in that revelation would come. It is true that if one lives a law, such as a health law, the benefits of fulfilling that law will be realized. On the other hand, the Latter-day Saint who lives the Word of Wisdom cannot expect to receive all of the promised blessings— hidden treasures of knowledge, wisdom, spirituality, and the destroying angel to pass them by —if he does not abide the other commandments. (D&C 89:18.) The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that though an individual fulfill one commandment and neglect others he will not receive salvation. I... Spoke to the people, showing them that to get salvation we must not only do some things, but everything which God has commanded.... It mattereth not whether the principle is popular or unpopular, I will always maintain a true principle, even if I stand alone in it (DHC VI:223). One of the distressing facts about breaking the Word of Wisdom by smoking and drinking alcoholic beverages, is the 61 JANUARY 1966 effect it has on the individual, the home, and society. The First Presidency (President Heber J. Grant, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., David O. McKay) in their message of October 1942, made the following accusations against liquor: Drink brings cruelty into the home; it walks arm in arm with poverty; its companions are disease and plague; it puts chastity to flight; and it knows neither honesty nor fair dealing; it is a total stranger to truth; it drowns conscience; it is the bodyguard of evil; it curses all who touch it. Drink has brought more woe and misery, broken more hearts, wrecked more homes, committed more crimes, filled more coffins, than all the wars the world has suffered (Conference Report, October 1942, page 8.) President Grant drew attention to the consequences of young people breaking the Word of Wisdom, and then showed how frequently this kind of disobedience leads to far more serious sin.... 1 want it understood — that the use of liquor and tobacco is one of the chief means in the hands of the adversary whereby he is enabled to lead boys and girls from virtue. Nearly always those who lose their virtue, first partake of those things that excite passions within them or lower their resistance and _ becloud their minds. Partaking of tobacco and liquor is calculated to make them a prey to those things which, if indulged in, are worse than death itself (Gospel Standards, page 55). Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve also pointed out the destructive influence of the cigarette in the life of the member of the Church. He declared that there is the feeling of uncomfortableness in being with people who don't smoke, so the smoker finds other people than those at Church with whom to associate. Since smoking is against one of the commandments and the smoker doesn't like to hear about the Word of Wisdom, he begins staying away from his Church meetings. These things lead to forgetting about praying and paying tithing. When the time comes to choose a life's companion the chances are that it will be someone in the smoking crowd. In other words, the cigarette has helped select the marriage partner. When the children arrive in the home, it is not likely that they will be taught to pray, go to Church, pay tithing, etc., because the parents are indifferent to these opportunities. (Conference Report, April 1948, pp. 152-56.) Disobedience to the commandments brings loss of the Holy Ghost, and the living of the commandments gives one that Spirit with all of its blessings against being deceived. "HIDDEN TREASURES" The Holy Ghost and the gifts which come from that Spirit will enlighten and give knowledge, protection, wisdom, peace and joy. These are some of the promised blessings of keeping the commandments. Here is what the Lord said: And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint (D&C 89:19-20). ' What is the greatest treasure that one may have in this life to assist him on the road to exaltation? Knowledge that saves! (Ibid.,. 131:6; 130:18-19.) In addition to knowing the principles of salvation, there is the important "hidden treasure" of knowing by the Holy Ghost that God lives, Jesus Christ is the Savior, that Joseph Smith is God's Prophet, and his successors are also holders of the keys of the Priesthood. Finally, the Lord promises that the destroying angel shall pass by the saints and not slay them, as he promised ancient Israel. (D&C 89:21; Exodus 12: 12-13, 29-30.) This promise does not mean that death will not come to the obedient. It is in the eternal plan that death comes to all. However, death may be bitter or sweet. (D&C 42:45-47.) He who has walked in obedience to the commandments shall receive the blessings of the angel of life—peace, mercy, hope, love, and to open the door of light and eternal life with its everlasting joys. (Conference Report, April 1925, pp. 61-62.) The First Presidency in 1943 LESSON DEPARTMENT with reference to the Word of Wisdom, wrote: This declares the divine wisdom. It is God's law of health, and is binding upon each and everyone of us. We cannot escape its operation for it is based upon eternal truth. Men may agree or disagree about this word of the Lord; if they agree, it adds nothing; if they disagree, it means nothing. Beyond His word we cannot reach, and it is enough for every Latter-day Saint, willing and trying to follow divine guidance (''Message of the First Presidency," October 3, 1943). QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Why do you think the Lord said all of the blessings promised in the Word of Wisdom revelation would come to those who live all the commandments and not only the health laws of that revelation? 2. Indicate the harmful results of drinking intoxicating beverages even in moderation. 3. According to Elder Mark E. Petersen, what effect may cigarette smoking have upon a Latter-day Saint? 4. What is meant by the promise of hidden treasures? 5. What spiritual benefits are derived from keeping the Word of Wisdom? 6. Discuss: A person's belief does not alter the truth of a revelation. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 71 — "For What Doth It Profit a Man If a Gift Is Bestowed Upon Him, and He Receive Not the Gift?'' (D&C 88:33) For First Meeting, April 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for September 1966 Objective: To illustrate the fact that God's gifts are ours only if we accept and magnify them. Each of us is endowed with certain gifts from our Father in heaven. These gifts are given to us individually and personally so 63 JANUARY 1966 that we may, if we receive and magnify them, reach to greater heights in the development of our personalities, our characters, and abilities. The Lord tells us in the Doctrine and Covenants, "... To every man is given a gift by the spirit of God. To some is given one, and to some is given another, that all may be profited thereby" (D&C 46:11-12). Whether or not we enjoy these gifts and thus reach the heights the Lord expects of us depends upon our willingness and worthiness to accept them. ''For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?" We must remember that these gifts are from a loving Father in heaven who wants us to be happy and to succeed in life. Yet, they are given to us on the promise that they will be ours only if we accept and magnify them. If we fail to receive and _ develop them in the way that we should, they will be taken away from us. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: Blessings offered, but rejected, are no longer blessings... The proffered good returns to the giver; the blessing is bestowed on those who will receive and occupy; for unto him that hath _ shall be given, and he shall have abundantly, but unto him that hath not or will not receive, shall be taken away that which he hath, or might have had (DHC V:135). How can we develop most effectively the gifts that have been bestowed upon us? Certainly, one approach would be for us to recognize the gifts, or potentials, that lie within us, desire to develop them, have the faith that we can develop them, and then go about confidently practicing and 64 applying the actions which will magnify and develop them. The apostle Paul said "Neglect not the gift that is in thee... Give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all" (I Tim. 4:14, 15). We often refer to the wisdom of Solomon. Undoubtedly in so doing, we may wish that we might possess this great wisdom. If we really desire to develop the gift of wisdom, we must practice those qualities which will help us to become wise. For example, before we make any important decisions in respect to any problem, we should get all possible facts and then make sure we evaluate. If we desire the great gift of knowledge we must be willing to study and yearn for learning. If we desire to develop the wondrous gift of faith, this can be obtained only if we practice believing and following the Lord's commandments. We have been admonished to seek ", earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given; For verily I say unto you, they are given for the benefit of those who love me and keep all my commandments" (D&C 46:8, 9). A young man was overheard complaining that he had no talents and implying that when God had distributed gifts, he had been passed by. This young man, in fact, seemed proud of his modesty and apparent humility in recognizing his own inadequacies. Actually, this young man possessed a substantial potential which he was wasting by his negative attitude toward himself and by refusing to recognize his inherent capabilities. In an effort to help him, a wise counselor suggested that he select one simple gift which he definitely possessed. This was a_ special ability to be friendly. He was encouraged to appreciate and to exercise faith in this one gift, and then earnestly work to magnify it. In so doing, he soon found he had other gifts which had been lying dormant. By concentrating on each gift and seeking to mag- » nify it, he succeeded in raising all of his talents and abilities to a higher level of performance. Someone has observed that when we develop one trait fully, there is a tendency for that one trait to pull all the others up to its stature. President Joseph F. Smith has said, "Every son and LESSON DEPARTMENT every daughter of God has received some talent [or gift], and each will be held to strict account for the use or misuse to which it is put" (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 38, 1903, page 689). The Lord has many gifts for each of us if we have the faith, courage, will power, and fortitude to work for them. The Lord can and wants to give them to us, but they can become ours only if we accept and use them. "For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift." WORK MEETING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (A Continuation) For Second Meeting, April 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for September 1966 Objective: To show how scheduling of cleaning activities in the home can result in efficient accomplishment of work and in great family happiness. INTRODUCTION You will recall that in Lewis Carroll's delightful story, Alice in Wonderland, Alice and the queen had been "running like mad all day." Suddenly Alice discovered that they were still under the same tree from which they had started, and expressed her surprise and consternation to the queen. The queen explained that in her country to "get any place" it was necessary to run "twice as fast." With our cleaning tasks in mind, as creative homemakers, we need to analyze our management practices in order that we 65 JANUARY 1966 may keep from "running twice as fast" to "get any place." NEW DRILLS FOR OLD SKILLS In. The previous discussion on cleaning-management, planning and the merits of scheduling were stressed. It is important to formulate the details of a schedule. In what ways would re-scheduling or a new approach to an old task mean greater efficiency? Too meticulous or laborious methods should be shunned. Much of the homemaker's time is consumed in child care. Some must be reserved for rest, especially for mothers with young families; for unexpected guests; for interruptions; and for some family fun that has not been planned. You might work a schedule in this manner: Daily Schedule — "Pick-up" in various rooms of house; prepare and serve meals; wash dishes and care for work surfaces of kitchen cupboards and large equipment; sweep and dust kitchen and other rooms which require it; make beds; clean bathroom fixtures. A wise mother will train her family early to accept their responsibilities in maintaining a clean home. In addition to what must be done daily, time should be scheduled to take care of washing, ironing, sewing and mending, baking, and other necessary tasks, which the individual homemaker alone can determine. Weekly Schedule—This would consist of a plan for thorough cleaning of each room of the house. Change bed linens; clean all floors thoroughly, including deep vacuuming of rugs and carpets and washing and waxing of floors where necessary; move furniture and clean underneath, with the exception of very heavy pieces; give furniture special attention as_ to vacuuming over-stuffed pieces, cleaning, dusting etc.; dust difficult areas such as moldings, baseboards and wall and ceiling areas where necessary; remove finger marks from _ doors, frames, and light switches; give kitchen range and refrigerator extra 66 cleaning; take special care of plants. These jobs may be done on a particular day—or many homemakers prefer thoroughly to clean one room each day along with the daily schedule, rather than leaving it all for, say, Friday. It is felt that much satisfaction results from leaving Saturday for food shopping, food preparation for Sunday, and for family activities instead of reserving itfor a weekly cleaning day. Monthly and/or Quarterly Schedule (depending on family set-up)—This schedule would include extra thorough cleaning such as washing windows; cleaning of over-stuffed furniture and cleaning and polishing of wood pieces; vacuuming draperies and/or washing and ironing curtains; cleaning cupboards and drawers; cleaning and waxing certain floors; special cleaning of accessories (especially lamps and light bulbs and light fixtures, bric-abrac, and pictures; and other necessary cleaning not included in the weekly schedule. These tasks are added to the weekly schedule as needed and as they can be included. Some homemakers like to clean or straighten a kitchen cupboard or drawer each morning as they wash the breakfast dishes. Semi-Annual Schedule—This is the deep, extra special cleaning of everything from basement to attic so familiar to the housekeeper. Again, many women prefer to do it "by the inch," and clean one room per month rather than devoting a period of time each spring and fall to the "orgy" known as housecleaning. To Discuss: Case Study 1. It is Saturday morning and the entire Price family is at home. Mrs. Price rises at seven o'clock. She prepares breakfast for herself and her husband, and they eat at about seven-thirty. She puts the dishes in the sink, returns to her bedroom, "picks-up," and makes the bed. By this time Timmy, age six, is in the kitchen shouting, 'Mommy, I'm hungry. May I have pancakes for breakfast?" She makes the pancakes and serves them to Timmy. It is now eightten and she begins making the apple pies for the ward dinner that evening. Just as she is rolling out the pie dough, Mary, seventeen, enters the kitchen and says she guesses she can't eat because she must be at work at eight-thirty. Mrs. Price fixes her a glass of orange juice, which Mary drinks under protest. Just then twelveyear-old Ricky bounces in and reminds his mother that he must be at his scoutmaster's at nine o'clock and hopes that Timmy hasn't eaten all the pancakes. Mrs. Price hurriedly cooks pancakes for Ricky. Two more late risers come straggling in for breakfast between nine and ten. At eleven o'- clock the pies are in the oven, Mrs. Price has been called to the telephone three times about the ward dinner, and the dishes are still in the sink. She sinks wearily into a chair and then suddenly remembers that Carole is still upstairs, hasn't eaten breakfast, and was to have been at a Primary practice at ten-thirty. How might Mrs. Price have avoided her present dilemma? In what ways could scheduling have helped? Case Study 2. The glass storm door on the front door of the Brown residence is always finger-marked and soiled. Mrs. Brown is a busy homemaker with a family of five lovely children, but maintains a clean, orderly living room. How might callers interpret the dirty storm door? How could care of the storm door become part of the cleaning schedule? YOU ARE THE HOUSEWIFEENGINEER Today the home is considered a small industry and the homemaker is its production engineer. You will, therefore, want (at least to begin with) to block your schedule out on a calendar or a homemade time sheet, allowing so much time for the breakfast dishes, dusting the living room, etc. This is especially important for routine jobs which must be repeated each day. Women who work outside their homes should find a schedule very helpful in accomplishing their home responsibilities in the limited time at their disposal. LESSON DEPARTMENT WORK SCHEDULE POINTERS 1. In: scheduling, retain the values that are important to your family. A husband should leave for work each morning with new courage to face the world, not feeling that he is being pitted against the time schedule. 2. Do not attempt too much work at one given time. Every hour should have some leeway. 3. Train each family member to "clean-up" and "pick-up" after himself. 4. Keep dirt and soil at a minimum always. (a) Sweep walks and porches often; (b) provide door mats outside doors and protective throw rugs inside doors; (c) protect floor and surfaces when a cleaning or cooking activity will result in splashing or spotting. It is easier to avoid unnessary work than to schedule a "clean-up." 5. Restrict eating to certain rooms or areas. Train children to be seated while eating. Do not allow them to "eat on foot." 6. Try to leave the house "pickedup" each time you go away and before going to bed at night. 7. Someone remarked, "Any man who has lived through housecleaning knows why hurricanes are given feminine names." Try to maintain some straight orderly rooms or areas during housecleaning time. SUMMARY No matter how thoughtfully a schedule is planned, there are times when it cannot be fully executed. Be sure that you always master the schedule and that it does not become your master. Make it work for you. In spite of the unforeseen, however, scheduling will give you the opportunity to control the physical aspects of your home, to create beauty, and to conquer inefficiency and discouragement. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. Discuss scheduling, assignments, and problems during your family home evening council sessions. 67 SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 4 (Lesson 16 in Series) — "Seek And Ye Shall Find'' For Third Meeting, April 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for June 1966 Objective: To emphasize our responsibility to prepare a personal record of our ancestors, and to motivate women of Relief Society to discover for themselves the many satisfactions of genealogical research. Follow-up on Home-Doing suggestions for Lesson 3 "Personal Standards." Lesson 4 on preparing a personal genealogical record logically follows Lesson 3. INTRODUCTION "Why didn't grandmother tell us where her father was born and where he died? Or even better, why didn't she leave us a written statement?"; Such questions, frequently asked by present-day Latter-day Saints, lead us into one area of what the Doctrine and Covenants states is the "most glorious of all subjects belonging to the everlasting gospel, namely, the baptism for the dead" (D&C 128: iis Very likely this anonymous grandmother knew where her father was born, and had she known how important this information would be to descendants, she would have left a written statement. The element of adventure has always been an inviting factor in the search for truth, for new knowledge. Whether the search be confined to earth, or extended to a stellar space, men have risked their lives in the adventurous search for the unknown. 68 The Savior often spoke in parable of the value of the search and the joy of finding—the search for the lost coin; the search for the one lost sheep, though the ninety and nine were safe within the fold. Genealogical research, which precedes the making of the record and specific ordinance work, is also a search for that which is lost. It is the search for one's own people, and it can become one of the great adventures of life. Adding to the importance of this search is the fact that it is motivated by the commandment of the Lord. Many Latter-day Saint women have been constantly engaged in all phases of vicarious work for the dead. They need no conversion. For the thousands of individuals, however, who are new or comparatively new in the Church, the following question might be a logical one, "Why are a few names, a few dates so important?" In addition to these members who are seeking to understand all the principles of the gospel they have so recently accepted, there are many Latterday Saints who have known about the work for the dead but who have never engaged in it and, therefore, are not familiar with the many satisfactions which can come from participation in this glorious area of gospel living. To prepare one lesson which might meet fully the needs of these three groups would be most difficult. This lesson, therefore, will accent one area only - that of preparing the record of our forefathers. This will include the exciting and rewarding experience of genealogical research, which is necessary in the preparation of all family records. A DIVINE COMMANDMENT Section 128 of the Doctrine and Covenants, among. Other things, gives instruction on the mission of the prophet Elijah, and baptism for the dead, as a welding link between departed fathers and the living children. It confirms other divine instruction to the effect that records kept on earth as well as those kept in heaven will be used in the final judgment. Referring to Revelation 20:12, the Prophet Joseph Smith writes:... I want you to remember that John the Revelator was contemplating this very subject in relation to the dead, when he declared, "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." You will discover in this quotation that the books were opened; and another book was opened, which was the book of life; but the dead were judged out of those things which were written LESSON DEPARTMENT in the books, according to their works; consequently, the books spoken of must be the books which contained the record of their works, and refer to the records which are kept on the earth.... Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Or, in other words, taking a different view of the translation, whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own propria persona, or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead (D&C 128:6-8). OF IMMEDIATE CONCERN The Lord has given us a commandment to seek out our ancestors and to do a vicarious work for them which they could not do for themselves. Relative to this divine commandment, the Prophet Joseph Smith stated: "The greatest responsibility in this world that God has laid upon us is to seek after our dead" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Deseret News Press, 1938, page 356). This responsibility is not to be postponed until next year, or next generation. We must assume our share of this cooperative endeavor today. The Prophet Joseph Smith also said, "The Saints have not too much time to save and redeem their dead, and gather together their living relatives, that they may be saved 69 JANUARY 1966 also, before the earth will be smitten, and the consumption decreed falls upon the world" (Ibid, page 330). PERSONAL RECORD ESSENTIAL The commandment of the Lord regarding vicarious work for the dead involves two distinct areas of effort: 1. The obtaining of specific information which will identify and establish relationships of individuals in whom we have special interest. This information is to be recorded according to specified instructions and preserved. 2. The performing of required ordinances within the Temple, for these individuals who have had no opportunity to do the work for themselves. Many Latter-day Saints have believed that since records are kept in heaven and also kept by the Church upon earth, no more records are necessary. This, however, is not so. We are commanded to keep a personal record. In a letter to the saints (D&C 128:24) the Prophet instructs us concerning the need and nature of vicarious work, including the records to be made. He writes, '"'Let us, therefore, as a church and a people, and as Latter-day Saints, offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness; and let us present in his holy temple, when it is finished a book containing the records of our dead, which shall be worthy of all acceptation." This is the Book of Remembrance. What an impressive title for this essential record! A BOOK OF REMEMBRANCE In the sixth chapter of Moses, we read of records prepared and kept by Adam and Eve, "And a book of remembrance was kept, in the which was recorded, in the 70 language of Adam, for it was given unto as many as called upon God to write by the spirit of inspiration... And a genealogy was kept of the children of God. And this was the book of the generations of Adam" (P of GP, Moses 6:5, 8). From these quotations revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in December 1830, we learn of information which is essential to our Book of Remembrance. What it should contain. According to the Priesthood Genealogical Committee of the Church, a Book of Remembrance should contain two primary divisions: Division 1 - Genealogical information relating to the direct line of the family, and pedigree charts as far back as we have been able to trace them. This would include the seven family group sheets prepared as part of the Priesthood Genealogy Program of 1965. It should also include eight sheets (four for the husband and four for the wife) on the families of our great grandparents, which are to be a part of this program for 1966. As additional family group sheets on the direct line are completed, and as the pedigree line is extended, they should be added to the record. Division 2 - Biographical material available, relative to parents, grandparents, or any ancestor whose name appears on the pedigree chart. If personal accounts are not available, then we should write what is known of their life stories. Spiritual experiences that have been meaningful to the family might appropriately be included. There should be a personal record of the person or persons compiling the record, which would include such information as birth, baptism, ordination, marriage, special blessings, missions, etc. Have you prepared a Book of Remembrance? If so, does it qualify, according to the above requirements? OF HISTORIC INTEREST We know from scripture that vicarious work for the dead is not a new doctrine. The Prophet Joseph Smith states this "was the burden of the scriptures" (SMITH, JOSEPH ~ FIELDING, Compiler; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 193). "Salvation for the dead was understood in the days of the primitive Christian Church, and to some extent baptisms for the dead continued to be performed until A. D. 379" MCCONKIE, BRUCE R., Compiler; Doctrines of Salvation, Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith, Vol. II, page 163). Supporting this assertion are the words of Paul the apostle in his epistle to the Corinthians: 'Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? Why are they then baptized for the dead?' (I Cor. 15:29). That there was no work for the dead until after the crucifixion of Christ, is supported by scripture. There could be no baptisms or endowments or any other work for the dead before the death of Jesus Christ. He it was who carried the message of the gospel to the dead and bridged the gulf spoken of in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. He it was who, in fulfillment of the prophets, opened the door of the prison house and permitted the prisoners to come free. Until that time the dead were waiting for their salvation or redemption, which should come through. The blood of Christ (Ibid., pp. 164- 165). After the resurrection of Christ the doors were opened to the dead, and the vicarious work for the dead was instituted and the authority of the Priesthood held by Elijah was then extended to include blessings for the dead, who would have received the gospel, if the privilege had been LESSON DEPARTMENT granted to them on this earth (Ibid., page 164). THE REWARDING SEARCH Although systematic and consistent research is to be encouraged, much needed information may be obtained from unexpected sources. One need only to be genuinely interested and alert; willing to listen and to put forth the effort to follow through on any "leads" that are found. Diaries, or old journals, old letters, old newspapers, and also family Bibles may often contain valuable information for the present-day genealogist. Where a family organization exists, it is often profitable to ask all members to go through their homes in search of any of the foregoing articles mentioned, for possible use by any other family members. Family cooperation is one of the most rewarding of benefits of genealogical work, for it brings living families together in mutual interests and affection. Numerous individuals throughout the world also have been cooperating unknowingly. Motivated by the spirit of Elijah, they have been and are spending both time and money in preparing histories and records of their forefathers. By 1844... There were only about thirty-seven published family histories.... Family genealogies are now numbered by the hundreds of thousands... (BENNETT, ARCHIBALD F.: Saviors on Mount Zion, page 75). To find an unknown ancestor after years and years of search is an experience almost too thrilling to be expressed in words. Far too numerous to be recorded, are the rewarding experiences which highlight the road of 71 JANUARY 1966 genealogical discovery —- a road which all Latter-day Saint families may travel, if they will. Fragments of conversation of individuals who are making this journey follow. They may kindle your own imagination and motivate your own resourcefulness. Woman #1 - Last month I found in a box of family mementos and relics a letter which has been unnoticed for over sixty years. It gave me the place and definite date of an inheritance settlement of years ago. I wrote to the Probate Judge of the city, for a copy of the court proceedings. As a result, I now have the name of a previously unknown second wife and child for the family group sheet. Woman #2 - While living in a large city a few years ago, I telephoned a home listed under the name in which I was interested. I inquired of the man who answered the call if he knew of any printed book on the family line. He said he did not, but suggested that I write his father. I did this. His father's prompt reply began, "Indeed I do know of a book on that family in America and I am sending it to you as a gift." What a priceless gift, for a telephone call and a letter! Woman #3 - I have just discovered something interesting about cousin Jethro. He was born in March of 1720, followed the sea and became a wealthy ship captain. During the American Revolution he gave $20,000 to buy shoes and blankets for the soldiers at Valley Forge. He's no longer just a name on the family group sheet. Have you a similar experience you could recount? There are literally thousands of illustrations where genealogical research has brought the personal satisfactions of new and lasting friendships, deepened the interest in further research, and has resulted in faith-promoting experiences. Those who are busily engaged in research work, today, affirm 72 that earnest desire and prayerful effort are essentials which may bring into fulfillment that great promise of the Savior, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matt. 7:7). The followi. G words by President Wilford Woodruff given in General Conference, October 1891, are applicable: It is a great blessing that we stand in the flesh in this last dispensation and fulness of times; and where we can open our hearts to understand these blessings, all of us will labor, as far as we have opportunity, to attend to this duty for our dead. I do not want to go into the spirit world and meet with my progenitors and have them say to me, "You held the keys of my redemption and my salvation and you neglected to do this work, and I am. Not redeemed'" (1966 Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons, Lesson 38). FOR DISCUSSION Questions which arise in the class period. Have class members relate, briefly, some of their own personal experiences in compiling the seven group sheets during the past year. FOR HOME DOING: 1. Become aware of the names on your pedigree chart so that no unexpected opportunity to obtain information will slip by you. Enlist the cooperation of family members. Young people often have found important genealogical information. 2. Do you have any biographical accounts of your parents or other persons appearing on your pedigree charts? If you do not, but know of relatives who might have. This data, write for a copy. 3. Become acquainted through the high priest group leader of your ward with brochures and printed books written by Latter-day Saint members as special help for beginning researchers. Very useful among these brochures and printed books are: Genealogicul Research - A Practical Mission, by HOWARD S. BENNION, The Deseret Sunday School Union. This book contains names of individuals who are specialists in research in different countries who have authored books on genealogy; Saviors on Mount Zion, by ARCHIBALD F. BENNETT. These books may be found in ward libraries. LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. Become familiar, through your ward high priest group leader, with the Pedigree Referral Service of the Genealogical Society. 5. Add to the suggestions for individual home activity this: Thank your Heavenly Father that you were permitted to come to earth in the dispensation of the fullness of time, with the privilege of being a savior on Mount Zion. LITERATURE—The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 14—Facing Death—Part | (Text: ''Out of the Best Books" pp. 420-39, 445-47, 473-82.) For Fourth Meeting, April 1966. In the Southern Hemisphere, July 1966 Objective: To consider death, viewed with relationship INTRODUCTION In this month's lesson we shall discuss two short stories and two poems. Each is concerned with a particular situation in which death must be faced. The first selection for study is "The Sick Child," by the French writer, Colette. "The Sick Child,'' by Colette When, at the conclusion of "The Sick Child," the author suggests that recovery from illness is not without its loss, we are tempted to brush aside this comment in relief and gratitude for the young life saved. What if the night has "'lost its magic" and has become 'meek and disenchanted"? The dreams of the child are only fever-induced fanto different life situations. Tasy, happily forgotten in health. Yet to discount this final point is to miss a significant part of a beautifully written story. The plot of "The Sick Child" could hardly be simpler. A small boy, Jean, afflicted with infantile paralysis and expected to die, rallies to survive a crisis and begin his recovery. To reduce the story to this is to make clear how little it depends upon plot. Characterization is equally simple; "Lady Mother" is appropriately maternal; the nurse Mandore is bluffly affectionate. Even the precocious child is just that. What then accounts for the universal appeal of the story? To begin with, the theme of childhood sickness provides a 73 JANUARY 1966 situation that most readers can identify with easily. But very little of this story has to do with Jean's actual illness. What is unforgettable is the heightened awareness of life that imminent death brings. Note how the intensity of the crisis is reflected in the culminating force of the images used: He had lost all sense of time passing so he could only judge by what he experienced. Often he believed that he was following a shadowy guide, one who had difficulty himself in finding the trail. Then he whimpered because he could not take the lead and, hearing his own wail of humbled pride or of utter exhaustion, he wheeled sharply, plunged through the wake of a cyclone, in search of a corner where he might find refuge. Now he was gripped with the agony of inhabiting a country where there were no corners, only a freezing current of dark air, a night on whose breast he was nothing more than a lost and weeping lad. Then he stood up, on legs that suddenly grew in number, that stretched to stilts through which pain cut like a scythe (Text, page 433; reprinted by permission of Jacques Chambrun, New York). All the words here seem rooted in reality—yet somehow not limited by the actual. As Jean approaches death, the familiar symbols and relationships by which his life is directed come apart. Sounds, for instance, are no longer loud or soft; they are "hunchbacked" or "with pointed snouts like weasels." Such language transcends conventional levels, yet seems "right.'"' No standard description appears capable of evoking sounds so intense that they take on shape as well as audibility. Colette seems to be saying that we appreciate the total richness and variety of life only as we come close to leaving it. Our lives are 74 often so regular that we standardize them, seeing routinely and acting predictably. How gratifying the most obvious manifestations of life appear to be when we are shaken out of our usual reactions. This story provides an exceptional opportunity for discussion of the multiple functions of lan- — guage in literary communication. We are so used to words stating that we often feel a little uneasy when they suggest or evoke instead of asserting. Note that Jean's moment of greatest physical crisis is suggested, not medically described, by the following: Now the boy who had been so gay and so spoiled, so at home in his loneliness, so wrapped up in his privileges as a fatherless invalid, knew that only a sad little sound as of crystal breaking, remained between him and a happiness whose hollow name he had still to learn: death (Text, page 432). By suggesting instead of stating, the author helps us see freshly and forces us to become part of whatever is being presented. If we are to get anything at all from reading that passing from life to death is "a sad little sound as of crystal breaking," we must try to involve ourselves in the mood which the author is providing for us. Assertive words usually serve as signposts which clearly point the way and require little more than mechanical following on our part. Suggestive words are more like compasses; they provide general direction, but leave the traveler to make his own path. "The Death of the Dauphin" by Alphonse Daudet The second selection for this month exploits a theme which is a very old one: death the leveller. It is probably appropriate that the selection we have chosen to illustrate this is French, for this idea has been especially prevalent in France. As early as the Thirteenth Century there were examples of what came to be known as the danse macabre or dance of the dead. While there were varied representations of this theme, they shared the basic idea that death is always lurking in the midst of life. Possibly reflecting the New Testament parable of the rich man who finally decided to enjoy the goods he had acquired, only to be told by the Lord that he was to die that very night (Luke 12:16-21), this concept served not only to reemphasize the vanity of earthly wishes; it also became a constant reminder that only death could put life into proper perspective. "The Death of the Dauphin" is really just a modern adaptation of this ancient theme. It even retains the pictorial quality of early danse macabre presentations. Note how the characters in this little story are grouped. We hardly need dialogue as we go from scene to scene— weeping maids of honor bowing on the stairs, robed doctors disputing just outside the sick room, the child's tutors at the door, the king in stoic isolation —all are focused on the bed in which the dying Dauphin lies. The pomp of this picture is in ironic contrast to the pale child on the white pillow. Daudet's style is appropriate to his tale. If much of what is presented is sketched in with vivid, contrasting strokes, the matter-of-fact reporting of what is happening heightens the conLESSON DEPARTMENT trast between regal life and common death. Yet Daudet manages to be tender where most writers in this vein are merely grim. The imperious, insensitive Prince is, at last, only a crying child seeking the comfort that nothing earthly can give. "Tithonus" by Alfred Lord Tennyson The final selections for the month examine special problems in relation to death. Tennyson's "Tithonus" chronicles the despair of one who cannot die, one who in the words of Job "longs for death, but it cometh not." The poem tells the story of Tithonus, son of the king of Troy, who was married to Aurora, goddess of the dawn. Tithonus was a mortal being, subject to ageing and death, and Aurora was immortal, beyond the effects of either ageing or death. At the request of Aurora, the gods granted Tithonus eternal life, but she neglected to request eternal youth for him. Therefore, as the years came and went, he grew forever older, forever more feeble, but could not die. In lamentation for his plight, Tithonus in the poem cries out, "Me only cruel immortality consumes; I wither slowly in thine arms... Immortal age beside immortal youth." Later he pleads, "Let me go; take back thy gift."" He would die, but cannot. Finally, according to the old legend, but beyond the limits of Tennyson's poem, Tithonus grew so withered and ugly that Aurora turned him into a grasshopper (Text, pages 476-477). For members of the Church, Tennyson's poem may have unusual meaning—particularly in the light of the beautiful sermon on "restoration" in Chapters 40 and 41 of Alma in The Book of Mormon. We speak so easily of death as a release—and surely it frees us from the pains that flesh is heir to—but the choices we have made, rise with us in an 75 JANUARY 1966 after life. It is a bit sad to hear Tithonus lament his decaying body at length but dismiss the wrong choice which brought about his woe in a line or two. How difficult it is to see that the essence of tragedy lies not in how death comes but in the choices which may have governed one's life. To those who see this life as part of an eternal plan, death is not so much release as it is progression. If we accept this view, it is not hard to believe that death is to be feared only where one has not prepared himself for the accounting which death exacts. "Auto Wreck" by Karl Shapiro "Auto Wreck" concerns itself with death which seems not only premature but needless, and is a powerful indictment of man's inability to solve his basic problems. "Auto Wreck" gives a focus which is personal for most of us. In fact, part of Shapiro's point is that the violence of death by automobile accident is so commonplace that we are becoming inured to it. We slow down momentarily as we pass the scene of a wreck; we may even hope aloud that no one was badly hurt. But, once well past the flashing lights and sirens, we resume the speed and driving habits which may unite us with total strangers in the grim intimacy of death. One of the ways in which the author has tried to keep us aware of our collective guilt and shared danger, is to develop the poem in terms of an injured victim. The bell of the ambulance beats like a heart; the flare pulses like a cut artery; the throats of the onlookers are 76 "tight as tourniquets,' and the horror of the scene holds those who gather as if their feet were "bound in splints." Yet Shapiro does not rely on this device alone to make us feel our identification with those directly involved. The bell of the ambulance tolls as well as beats, and in its tolling we hear echoes of John Donne's famous sermon in which he reminds us that we needn't send to find out for whom the funeral bell tolls, for when any man dies, humanity is diminished, and as part of humanity we also suffer. There is nothing so ordered as rhyme in "Auto Wreck.' Many of the lines scurry, then pause, only to resume their speed once more, and we realize that the author is letting us drive through the poem as we approach, circle around, and then accelerate on past the accident. The final stanza, however, transcends the specific accident in trying to fit the particular into the whole—but the poem ends in despair. Other forms of death may be rationalized, if not justified, but the carnage which is becoming an accepted fact of travel by automobile seems hopeless of solution. Such death becomes a tragic commentary upon modern man's enslavement of a technology which is at once his pride and his destruction. Questions for Discussion 1. How convincing is Colette's suggestion that life must be jarred from its usual modes if we are really to appreciate it? 2. Under what conditions might the universality of death serve to unite people? 3. To what extent do you think Tithonus has recognized his problem in the last lines of Tennyson's poem? TO THE ONE IN THE MIDDLE Mable Jones Gabbott The way will not be always silk and song For you, my second son, the one in the middle. Ahead the first ones freely stride along And those behind are sheltered, being little. But in the middle of the world are those Whose stride is tempered, those who cannot walk Apart, because the needs of others close Upon them, to measure both their step and talk. So they, like you, will learn to give and sway, And being flexible will learn to grow, And in the middle of the night to pray Perhaps, and only you will come to know The deep harmonious tuning of life's strings That being in the middle always brings. OPPORTUNITY Ora Pate Stewart The rain had come and gone; the meadow grass Had drunk the offering and stood renewed. A rainbow arch, in colors of stained glass, Prescribed the arc of promise. Life was good. | gave my faithful horse his rein—dismounted: He munched the grass—I drank the new-washed air. Each in his way, a horse and mount recounted The goodnesses of God—-and made a prayer. And then it happened, suddenly, exquisite: Into a hoof-print pressed into the ground Some water welled and filled—to be explicit, A tiny pool appeared, pristine and round. And into it, from nowhere, plunged a sparrow. Submerging, thrashing, unashamed, he plumed— Emerging, splashing, dashing through the yarrow, To flit away, fresh-bathed and fully groomed. As suddenly his little bathtub emptied, As if some fingers had unplugged the drain. A flash of opportunity—remembered— Grew unforgettable, mingled with pain. 1 stand accused whenever I recall: "Into each life a little rain must fall." | have not made the most of it at all. 7 You can stand by the Sea of Galilee Join Murdock Travel's Holy Land Tour, W. Cleon Skousen your guide! LEAVING 14th MARCH, 1966, FOR 21 DAYS You'll see all these wonderful places with a knowledgeable guide to explain everything of significance. Colorful Istanbul, Turkey * Romantic Beirut and the fantastic ruins of Baalbeck, Lebanon « Mystic Damascus, Syria * Cairo, Luxor, The Pyramids, The Valley of the Kings, Egypt * Jerusalem, Nazareth, Tel Aviv, Haifa, The Sea of Galilee-Many other Lovely Spots in the Holy Land * Return via beautiful ' Athens and exciting Rome. Your guide MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 SOUTH MAIN, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Send me full details of the Holy Land Tour MURDOCK CT: TRAVEL City State Zip: if | were a blue jay | think that I'd stay In my garden all day. I'd hop on the lawn In the dewy dawn, In the sunny hours, I'd swing in the breeze On the boughs of the trees, And I'd fly up high In the twilight sky Before I'd rest In my hidden nest. I'd love everything But I'd never sing. So no one would say, "Oh, noisy blue jay, Go away! Go away!" If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 78 '\ W. Cleon Skousen Your kitchen stays cleaner when you FLECTRIC ALL INCLUSIVE-HOTELS, MEALS, TRAVEL expertly arranged by MURDOCK TRAVEL the experienced travel counselors IF | WERE A BLUE JAY Vesta N. Fairbairn I'd hide in the flowers Vilate R. McAllister @ We didn't call them Uncle Time and Auntie Inclination to their faces. We used these affectionate, if dubious, nicknames only when we spoke of them out of earshot. It was the easiest way of identifying this loved couple, so one could not possibly get them mixed up with others of our numerous aunts and uncles, great-aunts and great-uncles, and the so-called "aunts" and "uncles" which every child has, who are no blood relation at all, but are friends of his parents—to which latter class these two belonged. But to get back to the nicknames: Whenever Auntie Inclination would ask Uncle Time to do any special little chore around the place, he would invariably answer, "Yes, M'love, when I get time." And Auntie would just as invariably mutter under her breath, so he couldn't hear (because she would not offend him for the world!) "And inclination!" "The flower-garden wants hoeing," she would remind him. "Yes, M'love, when I get time." He always called her M'love. "And inclination," she would whisper resignedly. "The screen door needs new paint," or "J think you should write to your brother Tom," or "How about seeing Attorney Jones about getting our will drawn up?" she would suggest. And we knew Uncle Time would do it when he got time—and inclination! We could never see where Uncle was crowded for time. He could spend days on end off fishing. He could hob-nob for hours with neighbor Duncan over the pasture fence. He could sit in the shade and cut little sticks into shavings, not making anything, just whittling. He could spin yarns with the boys at the corner grocery far into the night. So we concluded that the reason the weeds took the yard, the paint curled on the screen door, the letter never reached brother Tom, and Uncle would probably die intestate, was not really lack of time, but lack of inclination. Deep in his heart he probably knew this. But it is so much easier to blame time rather than inclination for our procrastination and omissions! Time is something outside ourselves, while inclination is 4 part of us. Who would not rather "pass the buck" than admit his own failure? So we find people all around us (and we do it ourselves if we have the courage to admit it), who continually get their semantics mixed up. They don't have time to go to church, to teach a class, to work on the welfare farm, to visit a shut-in, to read the scriptures or other good books, to serve in a civic capacity, to write to a loved one, to develop their talents, to do a hundred and one simple acts of service that would bring joy to others, and, incidentally, to themselves. Yet some people, with the same twenty-four-hour day, find or make time for such things. We seem to have time for what we really want to do. Time is a great gift. But it seems increasingly clear that of the two, inclination is the greater, for it determines what we do with our time. Fortunately, though time is static, inclination is something we can enlarge. It is jn our power to control. The people we admire for their accomplishments and service have succeeded through directing their inclinations. For many of them, the obligations of duty have imposed on their time, it is true. But like a persistent tree that grows in a rock, their inclinations have been strong enough to triumph. For this they merit and receive our praise. It would seem appropriate when we include the familiar phrase in our prayers, "Help us to use our time and talents to advantage," that we add the more important request that he help us also to develop a set of wholesome and sturdy inclinations. 719 Mrs. Anna Wagstaff McGhie Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Davis Warfordsburg, Pennsylvania Mrs. Rachel Middleton Jensen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Kirsten Marie Sorensen Jensen Shelley, Idaho 95 Mrs. Julia M. Sullivan Greene Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Katie Holladay Cragun Portland, Oregon 94 Mrs. Frances Lathrop Lebo Bakersfield, California Mrs. Ellen Koyle Rose Fillmore Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Olla Eugenia Cleveland Eart Centerville, Utah Mrs. Loretta Tucker Johnson Oakland, California Mrs. Mary Munk Livingston Ephraim, Utah 93 Mrs. Emily Elizabeth Davis Schettier Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amelia Jensen Topham Parowan, Utah Mrs. Lily P. Bagley Sacramento, California Mrs. Roseltha Douglas Revor Ogden, Utah } ) Mrs. Ismilda Thueson Dorchues England Plain City, Utah Mrs. Samantha Kirkpatrick Garden Grove, California Mrs. Clara Patience Rudd Hardy Rose McGill, Nevada Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Armitta Peterson Clark Lehi, Utah Mrs. Fanny Green Thompson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Carolyn Pfifperer Larsen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Larsen Price Lake View, Utah Mrs. Ane Marie Andersen Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Louise Johnson Brown Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Lillian Yates Evans Plymouth, California Mrs. Helen Jackstein Sahm Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ida Ivie Stanford Dix Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Sarah Jensen Senton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eulalia Cravens Carmichael, California Mrs. Maria Martin Young Kemmerer, Wyoming Brigham Young University 1966 Travel Study Tours ~- RRR Fows on standards. Capable B. Y. U. Profesiss Gucapean'Tour enjoy the beauty, comfort and delight of a trip to those places you've 3. Student European Tour always —_— 4. Tour of Central and South America 5. Bible Lands Tour For Details Write: 6. Church History-Hill Cumorcah Pageant Tour B. Y. U. Travel Study 7. Round-the-World Tour Provo, Utah 84601 BEAUTIFUL HANDY CALL OR WRITE FOR DURABLE ITINERARY OF TOUR struction of each month's Relief Society Maga- —e West's first Ke et cama —_ printing house is to t a ey osthore PAGEANT TOUR Mail or bring the editi uw wish bound to Phone 486-1892 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah ee Zone) G.........- 90 ea ee me James Travel Tours Zone §........,..80 460 7th Avenue f ta PESE ays ws — Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 7 Tours to Choose from: 1. Peoples and Arts Tour of Europe A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inzine is in a handsomely bound cover. The the Deseret News Hhees-for | aronthemee of euanile. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included below if bound volumes are to be mailed. A Travel with friends observing L. D. S. Sors handle all the details, you just HAWAIIAN TOUR SOUTHERN STATES TOUR PASSION PLAY TOUR NORTHWEST TOUR NEW ENGLAND TOUR CANADIAN TOUR — Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 ee Important reading for every mother OUR MORAL CHALLENGE by Mark E. Petersen A straightforward talk about youth and morals by a man who is known for his interest in the problems of our young people. Apostle Petersen raises the burning moral issues of the dayand clearly points the way of virtue for every LDS "teen." $2.95 ORPLPLALZLED UNDERSTANDING CHILDREN by R. D. Willey An invaluable guide to the mother and the teacher by a man whose training and experience uniquely qualify him to write this book-an ideal way to start the new year... By understanding children.. $3.95 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me OUR MORAI CH LF G | rl N DE R DING CHILDREN. I enclose | A nt. Utah ] ft ange, Deseret Book f 44 EAST SO. — _* y —— MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA COS et Spee er, Zip JAN RS. 66 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah eocece Relief Society Af, ——— a Ys J * y A, ft - a~\ ~ ny ~ o we > hs | read The Relief Society Magazine every issue, and really enjoy it. | would think that any homemaker, whether a member of the Church or not, would appreciate receiving this little gem each month. Maybe you don't have many male readers, but perhaps you have more than you think. | know of a few besides myself who are readers and enjoy this excellent Magazine. George F. Lee Ogden, Utah It is wonderful to receive The Relief Society Magazine when | am so far away from home. It fills many hours with inspiring lessons, wonderful stories and poems. My issues circulate in many nonmember homes and are read from cover to cover. Mrs. Christa Jensen Puerto Ordaz Estado Bolivar Venezuela | enjoy everything about the Magazine, from the beautiful cover, on through the stories, poems, editorials, and lessons. It is uplifting and inspiring. | especially enjoyed President Belle S. Spafford's address "'The Blessings of Experience' in the November issue. Ann G. Ollar Irving, Texas | am lifted up by the stories and the messages found in The Relief Society Magazine, and | have a new zest for it. | am trying my best to put the Magazine into the homes, hearts, and hands of all the sisters in the branch, so that they can benefit from its beauty, truth, and love from the leaders who are all inspired from our Savior in heaven. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas | don't want to miss a single Magazine, as | save them all for future use. The recipes are wonderful, as is everything in the Magazine. It is truly wonderful. Mrs. Dot Underwood Billings, Montana yo CML ALULY Mer First and foremost, let me give thanks to Mrs. C. E. Crocker, who introduced me to your periodical. | was employed by her, and | enjoy every copy of the Magazine to which she so kindly gave me a_ subscription. The covers are really works of art, and | enjoy the lessons, although | am of another faith. Peace of mind and tranquility are the major factors which | get from ail of the stories, articles, and the literature section. Mrs. Evelyn L. Niessen Oakland, California | surely do not want to miss one issue of The Relief Society Magazine. 1 enjoy it ever so much. As soon as it arrives, | hurry and read the continued story. Then, later, | always read it from cover to cover. My husband is serving in Viet Nam, and at times | become discouraged and lonely, and having the Magazine helps me to spend my time usefully. It helps me to place values in their proper perspective. Mrs. Merle Craig Orem, Utah The Ward Magazine representative in one of the wards where we are trying to get the young mothers to subscribe for the Magazine and to attend the meetings, told me how much she enjoyed the Magazine. She is twenty-three and has two small children. She said one day she was quite upset, and the Magazine happened to come, so she picked it up. Suddenly she found the answer to her problem, and since then, the minute the Magazine comes she reads it. As for myself, | love the poetry. It fills my need. It is wonderful to have so many gifted sisters writing for the Magazine. South Carolina West S Charlotte, North Caro the Relief Society magazine Volume 53 February 1966 Number 2 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 84 Relief Society Administration Leadership Delbert L. Stapley 98 Self-Expression Through Music Florence Jepperson Madsen 100 One Day at the Temple Vida D. Brinton 105 Let's Conquer Heart Disease 106 Relief Society Is for All the Sisters Peggy Petersen Stephens 91 "A Time to Every Purpose" Second Prize Story Venda Castleberry 107 A Valentine for Mother Kethryn E. Franks 125 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 2 Margery S. Stewart General Features 82 From Near and Far 101 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 102 Editorial: A Valentine for the Visiting Teachers Vesta P. Crawford 104 In Memoriam—Gladys Sessions Boyer 104 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Emblem 128 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 159 This Day Will Bring Some Lovely Thing Stella Hatch 160 Birthday Congratulations The Home -Inside and Out 112 Rhubarb Reminds Me Genevieve Van Wagenen 114 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions—Part IV Rosa Shurtz 118 "Scrap Happy" Loray C. Randall 120 The Lovely Leek Elizabeth Williamson 122 Promise Nelda P. Litchfield 123 Phankuchen Janet W. Breeze 124 Sunburst and Diamonds—Many Patterns for Many Quilts Lessons for May 135 Theology « The First Presidency—Keys of the Kingdom Roy W. Doxey 141 Visiting Teacher Message « "He That Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me... Christine H. Robinson 143. Work Meeting « Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness (A Continuation) Hazel S. Cannon 145 Social Science * Two Worlds As One Alberta H. Christensen 151 Literature « Facing Death—Part II Bruce B. Clark Poetry 81 Temple Spires Dorothy J. Roberts Oakland, Marilyn McMeen Miller, 90; No Longer Missing, Eleanor W. Schow, 97; Night Life, Kathryn Kay, 109; In Defense of Valentines, Olive W. Burt, 109; Rain River, Clara Laster, 110; Buying a House, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 111; Against the Snow, Caroline Eyring Miner, 121; In a Secret Pool, Lael W. Hill, 142; To an ElevenYear-Old, Christie Lund Coles, 156; Dark Glen, Shirley M. Howard, 158; New Friend, Ethel Jacobson, 158. Relief Society Administration Leadership Elder Delbert L. Stapley of The Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] wg I am grateful, sisters of Relief Society, for this opportunity of speaking to you in this, your annual conference. Your Presidency has given me a rather difficult assignment, and I pray what I have prepared may fit into what they had in mind and now have in mind, and that you will not go away disappointed. Relief Society is a wonderfully choice organization, presided over by dedicated, faithful women, who willingly and cooperatively work under the direction of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph Smith, when establishing Relief Society, expressed himself as being deeply interested in its activities. He referred to the organization as a select society of virtuous women and challenged them to purge out iniquity from among them and to observe the laws of the kingdom of God. He also counseled the women constantly to practice the principles of holiness. These instructions from _ the Prophet give broad vision to the work of Relief Society. The purpose of the Church and its leadership is to save and bless people. If you lose this understanding of purpose in Relief Society, you have lost the true spirit of your work. I should like to paraphrase two verses from the revelation on Priesthood which I feel are apropos to Relief Society leadership. Wherefore, now let every woman learn her duty, and to act in the office in which she is appointed, in all diligence. She that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and she that learns not her duty and shows herself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand (paraphrased from D&C 107:99, 100). Ar This instruction and counsel significantly applies to all leadership in the Church. To learn one's duty is most important to the success of the work. How can one learn her duty if she fails to study the handbooks, manuals, Relief Society Magazines, and other excellent materials provided by Relief Society? How can Relief Society workers learn their duty by absenting themselves from preparation and_ training meetings? The effectiveness of your work equates to the presence or non-attendance of officers and teachers at all appointed meetings of the organization. Failure of board members to attend scheduled meetings causes them to lose the values and spirit which the instructions and discussions, with prayer, inspire. The purpose of officer and teacher meetings, Relief Society conventions, conferences, etc. Is to teach, train, and motivate workers to full and effective service. You cannot do your duty effectively unless you take advantage of every opportunity to improve and qualify yourselves for the stewardship of your callings to service. We have now arrived at the second step: To act in the office in which you are appointed, in all diligence. Here is the real -key to success in Relief Society work. The Lord has admonished, "Thou shalt not idle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy talent that it may not be known" (D&C 60:13). Someone has wisely said: "I admonish you to regard procrastination as poison to the soul. Be not guilty of it." How many valuable opportunities are stolen RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP by that thief procrastination? Here is a sentiment that helps one to appreciate this truth: "Lost —somewhere between sunrise and sunset two golden hours, each set with sixty diamond minutes. No reward is offered for they are gone forever." Now it requires less time to do a thing than it does to worry about doing it. Sisters, always be diligent in your callings. You are dealing with God's children. Help return them safely to him. Remember again, she that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand; and she that learns not her duty and shows herself not approved, shall not be counted worthy to stand. The scope of a person's calling is as broad as his or her vision. One's vision can be enlarged by study and prayerful meditation; also by attendance at all appointed meetings, which provide leadership and teacher development. It is important to. Grasp the full significance and magnitude of one's calling. There must be imaginative and creative thinking and doing for success. Remember, also, the Lord has warned, and again I am paraphrasing: For behold it is not meet that I should command in all things; for she that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore she receiveth no reward. Verily I say, women should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And inasmuch as women do good they shall in nowise lose their reward (paraphrased from D&C 58: - 26-29). FEBRUARY 1966 Initiative, faithfulness, and obedience are emphasized in this revelation. God has said: "'... Whatever ye do according to the will of the Lord is the Lord's business" (D&C 64:29). You sisters are engaged in the Lord's service, thus fulfilling your part in the Lord's business of saving souls. Like any business, the kingdom of God requires strength of leadership in its organizations to fulfill the purposes of God for his children. The organization of the Church in this last dispensation of God's providence is perfect and should function perfectly. This condition cannot be attained without the wise choice of leaders placed in positions where their talents and abilities can serve best. In business, people are employed and placed in positions according to their proven qualifications, or they possess the potential abilities and skills which by teaching and training, will qualify them to render effective and profitable service. In the Church we cannot assume because a person is faithful and true that he or she can give a good account of his or her stewardship in any Church position. I submit that faithfulness is a necessary ingredient in the character of the individual chosen; but, regardless of how good the person is, he or she can serve far more satisfactorily and happily in the field of their native talents and endowments than elsewhere. I have great respect and faith in what the Holy Ghost can do for an individual, but I firmly believe the Holy Ghost can do far more for an individual who is called to serve in a position where his or her talents and quala6 ifications fit them more capably. I have seen successful teachers fail when called to leadership positions. Because the teacher was successful as a teacher, the presiding officer thought the teacher could give good leadership to an organization. It is not the fault of the individual who fails under such circumstances; it is the fault of the officer who has not analyzed what the position to be filled requires in abilities and qualifications; therefore, poor judgment was used in the selection of the worker. There is always a serious question to be considered when pulling an effective teacher away from a class without having a qualified replacement to take over. That question is: What will the effect be on the class? Will they be left to drift and thus become' spiritually lost or partially so to the kingdom? The Relief Society, to do effective and successful work, must be strong in all departments of activities and service. When staffing an organization, the president should be wisely and carefully chosen and on the basis of capabilities, spirituality, and faithfulness. With the approval of the presiding officer it is her privilege and right to select counselors who possess the talents, abilities, and capabilities to complement her, so working together, they are an all-around efficient and effective team. If possible, counselors should be selected who possess the potential qualities for top leadership. The presidency, acting together, should select and recommend to the proper Priesthood authority those whom they wish to serve with them, being sure that those selected are worthy and true to the faith and have the spiritual and other qualifications which fit them well for the positions to be filled. It seems to me working with people in the Church is a neverending educational process. Every organization should constantly train its workers to assure a reservoir of capable leadership and teachers to fill the too-often occurring vacancies. I believe; as never before in the Church, leaders must be good teachers and have the ability to train others, and also have the spiritual enthusiasm to motivate workers to do their best. Every person should strive diligently to measure up to his or her potential. Anything short of one's best isn't good enough in the Lord's work. Also, anything worth doing is worth doing well. The plans and program of Relief Society, as announced by the Relief Society General Board, should be fully supported. Relief Society covers a broad field of activities so helpful and important to mothers of the Church. These activities, if interestingly conducted, will receive wide support from the sisters. Relief Society promotes social functions, literature, social science, and theology lessons which can capture the interest and increase the attendance of Relief Society sisters and stimulate faith and faithfulness, also help them to obtain fervent testimonies of the gospel of our Lord. We need an informed leadership. We are inclined too much in the Church to let our lines of communication break down so that information doesn't filter down through proper channels RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP to the rank and file of our people. Leadership is prone not to share information with those who work with them. The better informed people are, the better work they do. That which people understand, they support. It is the things they do not understand, they fail to support. May I suggest and counsel Relief Society leadership, at all levels, to adhere to programs, instructions, and procedures of your Society. Please don't set aside the planned functions of Relief Society and go off on tangents by following the personal ideas you may have about bettering its program and activities. Relief Society leaders should be capable administrators, knowledgeable in planning and _ programming, and with a willingness to share responsibility with workers by delegation and assignment, having trust in the workers by not taking over from them, yet hold them to good performance and proper results. You stake leaders fully support the Relief Society General Board and the full program it offers. Its Presidency work directly under General Authority Advisors and the First Presidency. The Relief Society program is approved by them. Ward Relief Society leadership and boards please support stake Relief Society leaders who work under a high councilman representative and the stake presidency. The Relief Society ward leadership and board also work under direction of the bishopric. In all these relationships (General, stake, and ward boards) there must be delegation and instruction without dictation. 87 FEBRUARY 1966 In the Church we are concerned with unity, which is achieved by working together in the spirit of love, and not by authoritative domination. Proper leadership attitudes, with friendliness and love of people, are so important and meaningful to secure the respect, confidence, and the interest of the women of the Church. President McKay, speaking to the brethren on the new missionary plan, made a most significant statement to them, which I envision as applying to all Church leadership. Said President McKay, "This plan (speaking of the missionary plan) as I see it, is a plan of education and not one of dictation." By thinking this statement through, we can understand how leaders should deal with each other in the Lord's work. However, we get out of people about what we expect. If we expect good performance, we will receive good performance. If we are satisfied with mediocre performance, then we will obtain mediocre performance. With the growing Church, we must get set for more responsibility and be equal to greater challenges to service. You have a real job to do in Relief Society which requires constant selfevaluation of one's potential; and from that self-evaluation determine whether you workers are measuring up to the potentialities of your callings. When inviting a person to serve in Relief Society, leadership should not minimize the time or devotion one is required to give. If leaders will help workers under them to obtain a proper perspective of their callings and what the aims, objectives, and purposes are, greater accomplishments and improved results will follow. In the selection of people for Church service, leadership first must determine, by prayerful study, what the position to be filled requires to meet the purposes, aims, and objectives of the work. When that is determined, then leadership will look around for someone meeting the qualifications of the position and who is thoroughly orthodox in the doctrines and programs of the Church. When such an individual is found, after proper clearance, she should be approached and the work of the position explained clearly to her understanding, emphasizing what is expected of her, the time it will take, then if she responds with enthusiasm to the challenge, invite her to serve. If she is hesitant and lacks enthusiasm for the calling, then it is best to look for someone else. We must have people in the organizations of the Church who can be depended upon to give full, devoted, and dedicated service. Another important item in inviting people to service is an understanding about tenure of office. No organization can succeed with frequency of personnel turnover... The most effective organizations are those where the personnel stay together. It seems we hardly train someone for an important Church position—and all positions are important— when for some reason or another, replacement is necessary. It takes several months to settle into a position and be effective in the work. Leadership, struggling constantly to train new personnel, finds it very difficult to promote the full program of the Church successfully for the blessing of its membership. Much care should be exercised in selecting qualified and efficient secretaries who are capable and meticulous with the records and reports of Relief Society. Good records will give understanding to presidencies of the statistical status of an organization in order that the officers can determine measurement of Relief Society progress and know where special attention and emphasis are required. Relief Society should constantly measure its progress. To determine what direction the organization is going. Your first comparison should be with your own organization's progress. If. You want to compare your organization with another, it should be with the best, and not with the average. The same thing is true in business. If a business man wants to compare his operation with another, he should find the best in his field. Then he will learn something that will be helpful to him in making his own business more successful and_ profitable. This principle holds true in Relief Society. No doubt you receive comparative reports, which permit you to know what other Relief Societies are doing. From the best and most efficient among them, you will want to emulate in the organization for which you are responsible. One thing in any organization which always concerns me is trends. Watch trends carefully; are they up or down? If the trend is down, even though slightly, then is the time to redouble the efforts of leadership and all board members working cooperatively together to reverse the trend. If RELIEF SOCIETY ADMINISTRATION LEADERSHIP an organization drifts too far downward, it takes many months of real hard work to change the trend to an upward, progressive position. This means the board must always have a full staff of constantly functioning officers and teachers. If a new program is introduced, you should keep careful check to see if, statistically, your organization shows any improvement in results; if not, the cause should be determined and appropriate action taken to correct the condition or conditions. It seems to me that in keeping with the tempo of our times, we cannot wait for things to happen. We must make them happen, and in the right direction for the success of the Lord's work, and this applies to Relief Society. In Relief Society you leaders must evaluate, challenge, and commit your workers to faithful performance. It is the job of leadership to know the program. It is the job of every board member to become thoroughly acquainted with every angle and facet of her position; because if leadership fails, program fails. If a board member is not doing effective work in her field of activity, it adversely affects the whole program of the organization. It is important that every called person fulfill her duty one hundred per cent effectively. Take the problems you cannot solve or are uncertain about to the proper Priesthood authorities whose responsibility it is to be helpful and to give encouragement to the work of Relief Society. I realize my talk, sisters, is mostly slanted to stakes and 89 FEBRUARY 1966 wards; however, it likewise applies to missions, with their districts and branch Relief Society boards. I recognize, also, in some stakes, wards, mission districts and branches, sufficient experienced, qualified, capable leadership is not always available. You then must take and use the best material the good Lord has provided and with teaching, training, and_ spiritual motivation reach for the ideal organizational strength by application of the suggestions I have outlined to you. Unless we constantly work toward the ideal, it will never be achieved. There must be a good beginning, a _ proper followthrough with a productive training program to build strength into every department of Relief Society work. Leaders in Relief Society must be personal, living examples of all the gospel and the Church stand for. Now in making this presentation, sisters, I know that your organization is functioning well. You are rendering a tremendous service, not only to the women of the Church, but to all the membership of the Church. I think you are a light to the people of the Church and to the people of the world in the things you do. But if it is possible to do better, to improve the work, to reach the people who are not receiving the advantages of Relief Society work, then it is your responsibility to do so. This work is important; these are great days in which we live; much is expected of us, as the people of the Lord. _ I know that Relief Society can be counted upon to do its part — effectively and efficiently and to organize and function well to - carry out the principles, ideals, and the programs and activities of your organization in such a way that people will be blessed ard strengthened in faith and testimony. May God continue his — blessings upon you in all that you do in this great Relief Society undertaking, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. OAKLAND Marilyn McMeen Miller Where gulls cry up, skies hurry the. Dawn, And floors of cities, dark beneath the shade Of trees, erupt; a day of days comes on A cartwheel of sun. And below, in promenade, Faces in a sea of men are aware That suddenly a set of spires high on this hill Touches the sky. And now that spires are there, Eyes in these faces should watch, and become still.... Wind-swept sea, and all the bridges out Beyond the span. Of man's mind have not known Of golden spires, such as these, to shout Such words of power, above a citadel of stone. Lf eyes of men perceive at all, they know the promise of the Lord: This stone is not a monument to peace, but to a sword. "Nh Time to Every Purpose" Venda Brown Castleberry Second Prize-winning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest @ It seemed strange to me later that Mother's letter saying that she was coming to visit us should arrive the same day that I had an offer to go back to work at the dance studio. Ten years ago I had given up a promising career in dancing to marry Andy, and while I hadn't exactly regretted it —-still there had been times when I wondered if my only talent was not for dancing. The demands of my children seemed endless, and the thought of a career where one need only practice to see results seemed like heaven to me! I had been feeling increasingly unsuccessful as a homemaker. Strange, I thought, reading Mother's letter again, that she should come just when I'm wondering what to do—when I haven't even talked to Andy.... Mother had always come before to help me wait out the last dragging days before a new baby, and to see me off to the hospital, Andy beside me, knowing that all would be well at home. After the first time when I returned from the hospital, Mother would be there, before Andy had the car stopped, to take the new baby, suede-soft blanketed, from my arms. "Let the others know how glad you are to see them before you introduce the new competition!" she would say. The house would be heavenly clean, my bedspread turned back invitingly. I would lie there holding court like a queen, while my family ''ooh-ed" and "aah-ed"' and wonderingly touched the downy head and the wrinkled, pink, satin-soft feet of this, my newest production. Andy marvelled each time at the strength in the tiny curled fists, and 91 "'pooh-poohed" the idea that new babies can't see! Soon there would be muted sounds of dishes in the kitchen, and Mother would lure the children away for lunch. Then Andy and I would have a quiet time to plan this new life—in great detail. "When she gets married," Andy said when we brought our first daughter home, "her husband had better be good to her, or he will have to settle with me." Mother could always tell when I was able to take over the new baby; not until I was over the spell of inexplicable crying that climaxed the "baby blues," and could bathe the new baby, and ward off the help of a toddler without shaking with nerves and weakness. Then she would bake a supply of cookies and Andy's favorite boiled raisin cake; she 92 would defrost the refrigerator, clean the oven, change all of the sheets, wash and put away the laundry, and shampoo all of the children's hair—''to sort of give you a head-start,"' she would say. I would find the reins of my home slipping into my hands, and Mother would take off, saying she'd spoiled the new baby as much as she could in two weeks —now we'd have to take over the spoiling! Daddy died when I was in high school, and the first year I was away at college Mother and a friend began putting on lecture and music programs. They caught on right away, are in demand constantly, and receive numerous letters from people whom their program has inspired. And then there's I, I thought. The biggest challenge in my day is trying to have the breakfast dishes washed before Andy gets home at night! Always before Mother had left her work to come when we needed her; this time she would be treated like a guest! I would get everything done up, so that she would not see that I was snowed under, and a failure! When Robert Burns made his poetic statement about the bestlaid plans of mice and men, he must have had me in mind! Ellen, my two-year-old woke up feverish and sick two days before Mother was to arrive—and there went my plans for an orderly visit! I rocked Ellen, sang 'Bye Baby Bunting" until I was hoarse, for she would let nobody else touch her. I watched her shallow breathing, the way her eyelids fluttered open as_ she slept. In spite of the doctor's reassurance and the antibiotics, I was sick with fear as I sponged the yellow curls back from her forehead. Watching a sick child like this, I always think of the pioneer mothers—no doctor—no antibiotics—no cold water even— and I wonder how it would be to have a child die, while you watched, helplessly! My feeling of relief and joy that Ellen's fever was gone, the morning Mother was to arrive, was followed by one of despair as I surveyed the state of the household! There was time for only a quick once-over after Andy had left for the airport. Thank goodness for peanut butter and its (almost) complete protein! I thought, as I cleaned away the remains of meals the children had fixed for themselves. There was, of course, no baking done—no shopping either. "Ah TIME TO EVERY PURPOSE" "I wanted her to see me as a capable adult—maybe making a wise decision — not a failure abdicating because she can't cut the mustard," I said aloud as I scrubbed frantically at the bathroom bowl, and caught a glimpse of my stringy hair in the mirror. "What's the matter with me?" Andy arrived with Mother, a sack of hamburgers, and a gallon of root beer, to usher in what was actually a typical two weeks at our house, but which seemed pretty bad to me—looking at it as I thought Mother must be looking. IN spite of our rule that the children were not to eat in the living room, the rug and furniture were, somehow, spotted. In spite of Andy's and my knowledge of child psychology, Ellen still demanded—and got—her bottle. The pile of clothes to be ironed grew, in spite of the children's wearing un-ironed play clothes. There was sand everywhere, from the constant trailing of children from the sand box to the bathroom—or to the refrigerator for popsicles and punch. Each day I arose with the resolve to get ahead of my work, but it was like being on a treadmill, with the children's needs holding me back. When I had gained a little time, a crisis inevitably ate it up! The last day of Mother's visit the woman from the dance studio came to talk to me about going back to work. After she had left, I turned to Mother with a defiant air. "T don't care, Mother! You can see how we live! I can't manage— the children just take too much out of me—anyone could do 93 FEBRUARY 1966 better—I could hire somebody to fix decent meals, keep the house straight! I don't know what I do with my time. Oh, Mother, I wanted to do something creative with my life! I can't see anything ahead but this feeling of always being behind—nothing to show for what I do! I keep wondering if the children will remember me as a mother who couldn't cope." Mother was seated where she could look beyond me, out through the window. She said mildly now, "Turn around and look, dear. Don't they look happy and healthy?" I turned to see the yard full of children, swarming over the play equipment. "Yes," I said, ''and the ones whose mothers work look just as happy and healthy as mine!" Mother said ___ thoughtfully, "There must be much _ their mothers miss, gone all day— things that come up—with children, teaching, rearing them—it is a long time—perhaps not in a lifetime—that we know how we have done." I could see that Mother was not going to advise me. Mother was busy at her typewriter late that afternoon. I almost envied her, in there creating something to express herself, to give to the world. Anpy and I left the children with a baby sitter and took Mother to the airport. I felt lonely as she waved to us from the doorway of the plane. I would miss her good company—and I was vaguely disappointed that she had not helped me decide about taking the job. Back home, I watched from the 94 porch as the sitter walked the half block to her house. As I turned to go into the house, I saw a letter in the mailbox. It was from the dance studio. Without opening it, I stuffed it into my pocket. I felt restless. I wished Mother had stayed another day—maybe we could have talked more about my going to work. I wandered into the guest room, and suddenly felt closer to Mother; the sweet scent of her cologne was there, the imprint of her hand, where she had fluffed the cushion in the chair. And propped against the dresser mirror was an envelope addressed to me. Ah, she hasn't forgotten! I thought. We had always left letters to each other when we had something special to say. I lay across the bed and opened it. It was long—this must have been what she was typing this afternoon. This is what she had written, and it was right from one heart to another: "... It is sweet to have a daughter, sweet to visit in her home, to see what a fine mother she is! It is the pay-off, believe me, for whatever it is that one gives! "May I tell you a few of the countless memories of my visit— memories I take with me—and that give my life significance because you are my daughter? "* *T suppose you're mad at me!' I heard Chloe Ann say one day, when she had come from the store with treats for all of the children. 'You told me to get something Ellen could eat—and I forgot she can't chew wax.' You hesitated a moment before answering her. 'No-oo, I'm not mad at you. You made a mistake, but we don't get mad at people for making mistakes! We all make mistakes —Heavenly Father sent us here to learn not to make them—we are all learning—He is pleased when each mistake teaches us something!' "Ellen's first summer out of doors could have been miserable —she was so afraid of 'bugs.' Her screams brought you on the run countless times—and then you made a project of helping her. You brought in a bright red box elder bug and put it on the window curtain. The children— especially wide-eyed Ellen — watched as you 'petted' him, and one by one, they found the courage to touch. The bug stayed there all day, with you picking Ellen up many times to look at his pretty color, his funny feelers, and the legs that were so tiny 'they tickle little girls." You told the children that the greatest scientists in the world could not make even a tiny bug like that —look how Heavenly Father had made the outside—tougher than any plastic. The next morning when you were dressing Ellen you playfully walked your fingers over her tummy, her legs and arms, saying, 'I'm a bug—I crawl on little girls and tickle them! What do you do when a bug crawls on you, little girl?' Soon Ellen would giggle and say 'I brush him off—like dis!' "Jimmy was having trouble with the truth. You listened quietly to one of his fantasies one day, and then said, 'Wouldn't it be funny if that really happened! Of course it didn't really happen, but it would make a good story; go on, write it all down, and name it 'A Story by James Beardsley'! But when you tell something, be sure to ask yourself if it is true—or if it is makeup. If it is make-up you must always say so, and then you won't forget which is the truth.' "T should have liked to have a moving picture of you baking cookies with eight pairs of hands helping you! I wondered if you were longing for the days when you had the kitchen to your efficient self! "Jeanie threw the checkers and board across the room when she had lost a game, and ran to her room crying. You followed and were gone for a long time. When she challenged me to a game the next day, I was apprehensive when I saw she was going 95 FEBRUARY 1966 to lose. She wiped her eyes with the back of her hand as she played gamely on, and I am sure it was your words she spoke. 'It's only a game— it isn't fun when you get mad—everyone will still love you, even if you lose— that's the way it goes; someone wins, someone loses every time—next time maybe I'll be lucky!' I was so proud of her, as she swallowed hard—and challenged me to another game. "Watching television one night, the girls were dancing to the music, with stiff-legged, hopping steps. You were writing a shopping list, but you kicked off your shoes, joined the girls. 'Oh, let me dance with you!' you said. 'That music just tells you to dance; doesn't it? I'm going to be a tree in the wind! See how the wind bends me—first to one side, slowly—then around and around my trunk—then almost to the ground....' It was beautiful to see—their first consciously graceful movements! "Oh, Patricia, there are too many precious memories! I don't know where to stop recalling them! I wish you could see your days as I do—so very blessed! "These are the difficult days— when you feel as if you are pulled and divided in a thousand directions, until there is nothing of you left! Days of purposeful confusion, when your home is a laboratory — a studio — where children are being shaped into men and women. Later, when they are gone, your house will be orderly—but it will be a museum of memories — not a dynamic laboratory where memories are being made! "You said you had wanted to do something creative with your 96 life. What could be more creative than what you are doing? To be the co-creator of a human being! To be the creative artist— to shape your creation into the most universally significant work of art—a good man! What is working with marble, or paint, or words, or sounds—or movement—compared with working with eternal, infinite souls? You are discouraged because you do not see your creation finished before your eyes—your genius credited by a signature; how could this be—when a soul is forever changing, developing—is never finished! Our Heavenly Father, who sees the end from the beginning, does not, I am sure, see your work as you see it now...." I could not read the end of Mother's letter. I lay, face down, crying into the bedspread. "Oh, Mother—you're still making me grow up—You always did make me feel so—so big—better than myself—so valuable, that I never could go back to too easy things —'' I felt stronger, not so pushed —as if there might be a patterned purpose to the crazy kaleidoscope of my life. I pulled the curtain aside, looked out at the play equipment abandoned in the moonlight. "Laboratory!" I mused to myself. "Climb, stretch, yell, quarrel, dig, learn!" I got up, went into the hall, saw the crookedly lettered sign on my big girls' door: "Kids— stay out!!! Mommy this doesn't mean you." I nodded my head. "Studio. Women being fashioned!" I opened my boys' door. There they were, asleep on the floor, a quilt under them, their dog be- tween them! I had told them their dog was not to sleep in their bed. But of course—he would be lonely on the floor by himself! "Do not disturb!" I said to myself. "Men undergoing creation— good men — strong men — compassionate men." Tue little girls' room was a shambles. They had played themselves into exhaustion, and then had fallen asleep at opposite ends of one bed. Tied to the bed by a ribbon sash, the rocking horse was draped with all the clean play clothes he could hold. Their bedtime cookies had been moistened with water and portioned out on play dishes, with crumbs and water everywhere. How does a baby sitter turn into a mother, with an ear for such bedtime hi- "Ah TIME TO EVERY PURPOSE" jinx? I wondered, as I went for a towel. "Hey, stop prowling and come keep me company!" Andy called from the living room, and I joined him there, my feet curled under me, his arm holding me snug beside him on the couch. The letter from the dance studio, still in my pocket, poked me. I pulled it out and tore it up. "What are you tearing up, sweetie?' Andy asked, as I ripped across a scrap that said "If we do not receive an answer within ten days...." "Oh, it's an offer this company made me—" I said, '"—as a matter of fact, a pretty good offer! But suddenly tonight this doesn't seem like the time for it, at all!" Venda Brown Castleberry, Ucon, Idaho, author of ''A Time to Every Purpose,"' second prize-winning story, was awarded first prize in the contest last year. She speaks of her writing efforts as being ''delayed.". "t! Received a Bachelor of Arts Degree, in May 1965, from Brigham Young University, where | had enrolled after being out of high schoo! For thirty-one years. 1 am currently teaching English at Bonneville High School in Idaho Falls, Idaho. "At the University my stories were published by the Universe and the Wye Magazine, of which | was short story editor in 1964. During the past year | have tried my hand at television and motion picture writing, in collaboration with Melba Taylor Gleave. (Mrs. Gleave has been published in The Relief Society Magazine also.) One of our scripts is being considered favorably by the Brigham Young University Motion Picture Department, and we have some teleplays in the hands of an agent in Hollywood. | continue to submit short stories to magazines, and, occasionally, find favor. | am working on a novel about Latter-day Saint colonization in Montana in the early 1920's. "| have a son Lloyd and a daughter Charline (Mrs. Herbert Mote), and ten grandchildren, who all! Join me in the increasing excitement about my delayed writing efforts." NO LONGER MISSING Eleanor W. Schow A drooping flag Weeps at half-mast; Our hearts are torn But our fears are past. 97 FEBRUARY 1966 SELFEXPRESSION THROUGH MUSIC @ Self-expression through music is afforded in Relief Society through congregational singing, Singing Mothers choruses, accompanying, performance of preludes, interjudes, and postludes, and through teaching and conducting. Hymn singing by the congregation is one of the most common, yet one of the very essential music activities in our Church service. This means of expression, in which all may take part, should at all times be thoughtful, sincere, and meaningful; and those participating should experience a feeling of reverence, devotion, and joy. HYMN PRACTICE PERIODS The practice periods are for the purpose of teaching and learning new hymns and songs, or for perfecting the rendition of those with which the members are already familiar. Music leaders should keep in mind the values that are to be derived from wellplanned practice periods. Besides teaching new songs to increase the repertoire, singing helps to strengthen the voices of Relief Society women and makes them more flexible and responsive. It aids in the development of more self-confidence and ease when singing with others. Just to sing another hymn without some definite planning for its betterment is not a profitable practice period. The success of congregational singing, as well as that of the 98 Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society {Address delivered in the Music Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] Singing Mothers, is largely dependent upon the efficiency and personality of the music leaders. Besides adequately preparing the materials that are to be presented, the conductor and accompanist should always go before their audience, or organization, radiating a feeling of warmth and friendliness. Such an atmosphere puts people at ease, and they respond in like manner. When introducing a new hymn or song: 1. Make brief mention of author and composer. (Data concerning their lives and works may be found in Stories of Our Mormon Hymns, by J. SPENCER CORNWALL, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah) 2. Study text of hymn— its philosophy, beauty, and strength. 3. Observe melody and harmonies. (The composer Haydn said: "It is the melody which is the charm of music."') 4. Analyze rhythm and tempo. 5. Hum melody. 6. Sing softly with "oo" and "oh." 7. Sing words. (If necessary, correct pronunciation, notes, or rhythm.) This same procedure, with the inclusion of part rehearsals, may be followed in teaching new songs to the Singing Mothers. The book, Music Leadership in The Relief Society, published by The General Board of Relief Society, will prove very helpful to music leaders. For instance, in Chapter Seven, details concerning interpretation are given. Knowing in advance, as we do, the subjects that are to be pre- sented in Relief Society during the year, it should be comparatively easy to select hymns and vocal and instrumental music that will enhance and strengthen the various lessons to be taught. The hymns should be sung in keys of the medium range of voice, and, if needed, the music should be transposed to meet this need. Occasionally, the hymns in the male section of the hymn book are printed in lower keys, and accompanists can use these. A transposed copy of a hymn is needed only by the accompanist. THE CONDUCTOR The way in which the conductor conducts definitely influences those whom she leads. It should always be made a delightful and happy experience. Conductors should often check their conducting to make sure that eccentricities are not creeping into their work. Practicing before a mirror will reveal little variations and weaknesses in the conducting of which one may not be conscious. It also enables a conductor to see herself as others see her. When conducting, bodily movements are often too much in evidence, as is also the constant use of the hand and arm that is not wielding the baton. This makes conducting look laborious when it should be just the reverse —a graceful, meaningful art. One of the faults quite often observed, among both inexperienced and experienced conductors, is that of not conducting the long notes in a composition, but instead, just holding the arm out motionless and ceasing to conduct the baton pattern. This disrupts the natural flow of the SELF-EXPRESSION THROUGH MUSIC rhythm and creates a feeling of uncertainty among the performers as to what the exact length of the tone will be. Conducting without a baton is generally responsible for this inartistic habit. Let us, then, remember that all long notes are to be conducted, with the exception of the end note of a verse or the final note of a composition. However, if the singing ends, and the accompanist still has measures to play, the conductor uses the free hand to stop the singers and goes right on conducting the measures for the accompanist until the very end of the composition. Just as the singers are part of the composition from the very first note that is played or sung, just so are they part of the composition until the very last note of it is finished. Another suggestion, if followed, that will increase the efficiency of the conductor is that of always having a music stand directly in front of her on which to place the hymn book or copy of music. It should be arranged at a convenient height so that the conducting can be done effectively above it. In this way the hand, that would otherwise have to hold the music, is free, and can be used to suggest changes in volume, variations in rhythm, tempo, and style; and, by holding the index finger up, it can indicate the length of a tone that is being sustained. This free hand, which is called "the musician," is also used for the purpose of bringing in or releasing the vocal or instrumental parts in a composition. Therefore, it is most important in the artistic interpretation of a musical number. 99 FEBRUARY 1966 If well-trained, this hand has a distinctive method of communication between the conductor and the performers. It is hoped that all music leaders will expand their activities beyond just that of conducting congregational singing and observing the practice period. Our sisters should have the opportunity of progressing musically, and be afforded the privilege and joy of participating in a Singing Mothers chorus. Not alone will also be of value to the Relief Society organization and to the Church. The activity will challenge the music leaders and, at the same time, enlarge their capacity and understanding of this noble art. Music offers many avenues for self-expression. Choose from these offerings and become more prepared in your efforts to serve the Church. I will prepare myself and then when an opportunity comes along, I will be this enlarge their appreciation and scope of music, but it will prepared for it. —Abraham Lincoln ONE DAY AT THE TEMPLE Vida D. Brinton @ It was a beautiful autumn morning. We were up early, and at the temple at 6:45 a. M. My assignment that morning was at the entrance of the ladies cloak room. What a strategic place to see all the pageantry of happiness and love and joy that comes through temple work! And what a place for love and service. So many who come to the temple need someone to rejoice with them because of the privilege of just being in the temple. First came a family to be sealed, the parents and two beautiful teenage daughters. The girls had just returned from a trip in the Northwest. Through the girls' interest in the Church, they had interested their parents, and the parents had become active after years of inactivity. While the girls were away the parents had gone to the temple, then wired the girls, and the girls responded with beautiful roses. Now they were there together. I do not think I have ever seen more joy and happiness than was evident in those girls and their parents. Then the beautiful brides and their bridegrooms, there for the most sacred moment of their lives. And each couple made to feel that their marriage was the most important one of the day. With the Priesthood, chastity, temple marriage, prayer, and all the other teachings the gospel gives, what a wonderful foundation on which to build a perfect marriage. Missionaries, there for the first time, with faith and courage, ready to go out into the unknown world, their dreams of a lifetime ready to be realized. With these young missionaries, both men and women, I think we see the most sincere and deepest humility possible. And with them come the happy parents. Then four returned missionaries going to the temple before going back to college which they left to go on their missions. What a glorious way for young men to spend their vacation! That evening I had the feeling that I would just like to put my arms around each of those people who entered the temple that day, for I think I saw more happiness and joy that day than many see in a lifetime. 100 Ramona W. Cannon Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith, of the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has recently recorded a series of hymns ''Sermons in Song.'' The selection is beautifully balanced, beginning with a morning prayer, continuing with hymns illustrating some of life's problems and satisfactions, and concluding with a benediction. ''Mrs. Smith's intonation is outstanding.... The rich and spiritual conviction of her voice makes her solos impart an impression of classical grace." Roy M. Darley, Tabernacle organist, is accompanist for the recordings. Margaret Cousins, former managing editor of McCalls Magazine, and herself a noted writer, is now book editor for Doubleday and Company. She is author of We Were There at the Battle of the Alamo, and she collaborated with Margaret Truman Daniels on her autobiography Souvenir. Santha Rama Rau, eminent author and world traveler, is a native of India. She was educated in England and the United States, graduating from Wellesley College. Her best known book Home to India describes her homecoming and her point of view after years abroad. Dr. Elizabeth McSherry, twenty-six years old, is a resident pediatrician at New York's great Babies Hospital. Hers is one of the most difficult and most sought after training posts in medicine. She was one of thirteen women in a class of 130 medical students at Columbia University. Vesta N. Fairbairn, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and wellknown California poet, critic, and teacher, is president of the California Writers Guild. Mrs. Fairbairn receives much honor and distinction in this position, following such eminent writers as Lee Shippey, Allan Vaughan Elston, Irving Stone, and Dr. L. E. Nelson. For more than thirty years Robert Frost was honorary president of the Guild, and served in that capacity until his recent passing. Mrs. Lee Breedlove, wife of Craig Breedlove, famous speed racing enthusiast, and mother of five children, in October 1965, won the women's international land speed record on the Salt Flats near Salt Lake City, Utah. She drove her husband's jet racer at an average speed of 308.56 m. P. H. Margaret Mead, anthropologist and author of many scientific works, has written a new volume called The Family, describing many of the basic elements which comprise this basic unit of society. Ken Heyman supplied the illustrative pictures, representing families in forty-eight countries. Mrs. Robert (Allegra) Snyder is the woman part of a man-and-wife team who have written, directed, and produced a film in color, called ''Bayanihan," for a Philippine dance company. It blends rituals, customs, and _ traditions of the Philippine people. Mrs. Snyder has performed and _ choreographed in top-level productions, and she teaches dance education through films. 101 EDITORIAL A Valentine for the Visiting Teachers m In this season of remembrance, when expressions of love and solicitude are so freely given and so gratefully received, it is well that we consider with thoughtfulness and gratitude our blessings as women and as Relief Society sisters. From continent to continent, the world around, there are women who go as companions in solicitude, from door to door, giving their offerings of encouragement and love, "strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience... With joyfulness; giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light" (Col 1:11-12.) The busy young mother in her home, the woman in her middle years, who may be lonely at times, the elderly sisters who are not able to leave their homes—women blessed with material comforts, and those who are in stringent circumstances, all are given the precious balm of remembrance and loving concern. So it is for every woman of the sisterhood—she does not need to bear her burdens nor solve her problems alone. The presence of the visiting teachers reminds her that she is part of a world-wide organization, that thousands stand with her and support and strengthen her. Around her, and with her, there is the strength of many kind _ voices and many fervent prayers. In her life and in her home there is the blessed pattern and direction of those who are messengers of the gospel, for the visiting teachers of Relief Society are emissaries of the only Priesthood-directed organization of women established by divine inspiration by a Prophet of God. The visiting teachers carry with them the heritage of the women of Nauvoo who walked down to the river's edge to welcome and to assist the strangers who had come to a new land. The sisters who come to our doors have inherited that feeling of helpfulness and dear concern which motivated those who ministered so kindly to their sisters during the long journey to the West; they are spiritual relatives of the pioneer women who traveled horseback or in wagons or buggies or in bob sleighs to carry their message of mercy. The sisters who walked the miles of country roads, through hills and in lonely places, have bequeathed to our present-day visiting teachers their tender hearts and their ministering hands. 'And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness... To the which also ye are called in one body..." (Col. 3: 14-15). The visiting teachers are obeying the command to visit the fold and the flock and to remind all the sisters that they are beloved women in an organization so large and so blessed that all may be encompassed in a circle of everlasting spiritual strength and growth as they seek together the fulfillment of their heritage and their blessings. There may be only a few words said when the visiting teachers come to our homes, the time of communication may be brief, but the days that follow will be gladdened by the message of faith and protected by the concern and the love of the world-wide sisterhood, "that their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love" (Col. 2:2). In this season when greetings of love and good will are exchanged, and messages of affection are given and received, let all of us who have been privileged to partake of the spirit of the visiting teachers the whole year through, give to them our sincere words of gratitude. From full hearts, let us give a valentine to the visiting teachers. —V. P. C. IN MEMORIAM Gladys Sessions Boyer December 14, 1899 — December 8, 1965 Gladys Sessions Boyer, former member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away at her home in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 8, 1965. She had served in teaching and executive positions in the Church for many years. She was counselor and later president of Kolob Stake Relief Society. During the time that her husband served as president of the London Temple, Sister Boyer acted as matron, and while Brother Boyer was president of the British Mission, Sister Boyer directed Relief Society activities in that mission. As a member of the General Board, from 1953 to 1958, Sister Boyer served on many committees and special programs, particularly the Work Meeting and Short Story and Poem Contest Committees. She was General Board representative for many years on community sponsored organizations. She was greatly loved by her many friends and her associates, as a gracious woman, kind and sympathetic. She will be long remembered for her words of encouragement and counsel, and for her life of devoted service to the Church and to her family and friends. The General Board of Relief Society and all who have known and loved Sister Boyer extend heartfelt sympathy to Brother Boyer and the four sons and one daughter, and to all the family. May their lives continue to be blessed by the memory and the teachings of their lovely wife and mother. Notes to the Field ors) ARARARRRRARAOD The Relief Society Emblem The emblem of the sego lily as used by Relief Society on its pins, bracelets, and necklaces was copyrighted in 1958 for the exclusive use of Relief Society. Although it may be reproduced and used on programs for Relief Society gatherings, approval is not given for its use by individuals on any personal publications, music, printed programs, etc. 104 Let's Conquer Heart Disease Education Is a Help The American Heart Association Heart and circulatory diseases account for more deaths than all other causes combined. Dr. Paul Dudley White has called heart disease the modern American epidemic. All heart authorities recognize it as a world-wide problem and have set out to do something about it. Diseases of the heart and blood vessels do not respect race, age, or nationality. Research is the basic program for discovering causes and treatment of heart ailments. More progress has been made in this "field in the past fifteen years than in all previous history. We know that heart disease does not have to be fatal. It can be prevented. It can be treated. In some cases it can be cured. Before benefits can be realized from research, the medical profession must be educated. Millions of heart dollars contributed by generous people are used to publish the latest cardiovascular information. The American Heart Association distributes the Heart Bulletin, Modern Concepts of Cardiovascular Disease and the AHA Newsletter. Heart Associations in other countries also publish bulletins and newsletters for the profession. State and national medical societies also distribute the latest heart research information. Public education is the other important phase of this program. Thousands of pamphlets are distributed to inform children and adults about heart disease. Thus fear is replaced with understanding. The newspapers, radio, and TV contribute immensely through free space and time. Doctors, nurses, and scientists volunteer for speaking assignments at heart programs. "For Advice About Your Heart, Ask Your Doctor; For Information, Ask Your Heart Association." This is a wise rule for the public to follow. Millions of people support the Heart Fund by donating generously of their time and money for life-saving programs. Ask What You Can Do! 105 Relief Society Is for All the. Sisters Peggy Petersen Stephens @ To me for years, Relief Society was only a reason that my mother couldn't tend my children Tuesday mornings. It was a place for elderly ladies to go when their housework was done. It was the group I would join when my hair was gray, and I was too old to ski. Then, last October, in the excitement of the new Home Teaching Program, my father, who never asks anything of me, asked me to go to Relief Society. Other people had asked me to go previously— all women whom I liked and admired—and I always smiled and said that I would. I intended to go, too. But not until I was much, much more "mature." There were too many fun things to do— classes to take, things to learn to make. And I wasn't ready to give up my youth yet. But with January 1965, came the new program, and I resolved to go to Relief Society. The first lesson, discussing the Doctrine and Covenants, stimulated me in a religious way, and intellectually as well. The material was slanted to the feminine viewpoint—much more appealing and interesting to me than the material I had waded through heretofore. I learned about courageous women who had helped their men build the Church in the early days. I felt important, vital, glad to accept my role as a woman. The following week involved missing a brunch, which I very much wanted to attend. The lesson would have to be awfully good to make up for that. And it was. It showed me all kinds of tools to get a Home Evening off the ground. It answered the questions I hadn't wanted to ask, and replaced doubt with enthusiasm. The material applied to all families and gave me insight into the problems of others. Now I am carrying on my own private campaign to bring a few of my friends to Relief Society. I am trying to change the image. They say they're not old enough, that it would be admitting defeat, giving in. And I find myself telling them what others told me—without success. Too many of us limit our friends to people just like ourselves —the same age, the same interests, the same background, the same likes and dislikes. We become narrow, a carbon copy of our friends. At Relief Society we find a variety of ages and interests, a host of women with stimulating ideas, wide experiences. I want to know what they know, hear their thoughts, learn how they grew up, how they reared their children, how they maintain their freshness and enthusiasm. And the classwork offers some of the material I wanted to take in college, and just didn't have the time. I am thinking again. Relief Society has given me great ideas to dwell on while I am scrubbing my floor. I pray that in some way we will be able to bring the young women into our groups and add richness and knowledge to each of their homes through Relief Society. 106 A Valentine for Mother Kathryn E. Franks m@ I must have been nine or ten, and I remember a_ February storm had just left the world outside snowy white. On the trees and fences the snow had drifted in unusual designs. In my own small bedroom the radiator hissed out in jerky sputters. I was hiding in my bedroom working on a fancy valentine for my mother. I had heavy red paper, real lace, white paper doilies, red ribbon, and a wonderful idea for mother's valentine. I was the eldest, and it was important to me that mine would be the prettiest one my mother would receive. The red heart was cut and the white lace nearly around the edge when my little sister Sara, who was four, came skipping into my room. She was trying to cut valentines from a make-it-yourself book. "Oooh," Sara exclaimed when she saw what I was doing. "That is going to be beautiful! May I have some of your lace? I'm making a valentine for mother, too." "No," I answered. "I'm busy. Don't bother me." Sara looked disappointed. She stepped back. Without saying anything, she left the room. After all, I remember thinking, if I give her all my ideas, her valentine will be as nice as mine. Another few inches of lace were pasted around the heart when my younger brother, Billy, came bursting into my room. He had come home from school. 'Look, Sis," he said eagerly, "we're making these valentine nut cups for our mothers. I goofed. Mine are all messed up. Will you help me fix them?" I knew then that if they were finished correctly they would be darling. They would make my valentine look pretty simple! 107 FEBRUARY 1966 "No," I scolded, tossing the cups at him. "I'm not going to have time to finish my own." "All right," Billy said. 'T'll take some of this lace and fix them myself." I snatched away the lace and pushed him from the room. I was surprised when I saw mother nearby, putting away clothes in the hall closet. I was sure she hadn't seen inside, but I was certain she overheard all the nasty things I'd said. Her face looked sad. At bedtime I carefully placed all the trimmings with the partly made valentine in a big box, ready for school the next day. Mrs. Rodgers, our teacher, had promised us that we could work on our valentines the next afternoon during our art period. I remember how excited I was when it was time to clear our desks and start to work. I wanted to finish the outside of mine, so I could start thinking of a special verse. It had to be ready for the next morning, Valentine's Day. As Miss Rodgers handed out the red paper and the trimmings, the children crowded around my desk. "Look!" they exclaimed. "It's going to look just like a store valentine." Miss Rodgers stopped to admire it. She complimented me on my idea. I was certain then... This was going to be the nicest valentine my mother had ever received. The children were asked to take their seats quickly. Miss Rodgers stood in front of the class and began her cutting instructions. First, we were to fold the red sheet and cut the heart. "You know," she told us children, "it doesn't matter how you plan your design, or if there is 108 any design on the front at all. It's the message inside that counts. The words 'I love you' are what matters, really. Your mother knows by your actions how much you love her." Miss Rodgers said other things about the real meaning of Valentine's Day, but I couldn't watch her any longer, or listen to what she was saying. I think I gazed down a long time at my valentine. I fingered it slightly. I was looking at the valentine, but as a child, I was seeing myself quite clearly. I'd forgotten, I guess, what I was going to write inside. My valentine didn't look pretty to me anymore. I placed it back in the box. I decided to work on it after school. I was no longer in the mood. There were some things I wanted to do before I finished my mother's valentine. I hurried home after school. I found Sara and asked her into my room. I took her wrinkled book and showed her how to cut the hearts out straight. I tried to be patient while her small hands cut crookedly. Mother knocked on my door to inform me my friend was there to play. I told her I'd be out later, after I finished helping Sara. When Billy came home I sent him to wash his hands so we could work on his nut cups. I showed him how to paste the small red paper hearts on the outside and trim the tops with lace. "As soon as we finish," I told Billy, "we'll take our allowance and you can bike to the store for some tiny red hearts and some assorted nuts. We'll fill them and have the cups ready for tomorrow." Billy was delighted with the idea. It felt good to be the eldest. "They look swell, Sis. Thanks for helping me." Then he scooted out of the room with the money to go to the store. That evening I put Sara to bed and read her a story. I dried the dishes before going to my room to begin my school work. First, I tried to think of a good verse for mother's valentine, but I was too sleepy. I couldn't think. I remember how confidently I put it aside until the next morning. I turned out the lights and slipped under the covers. I overslept the next morning. When I woke up I heard Billy and Sara in the hallway already giving mother their valentines. I can feel it now, how near tears I was. Hastily I pulled out A VALENTINE FOR MOTHER the fancy, unfinished valentine from the box. I scrambled for the paste and lace... A verse. There wasn't time. I had to dress or I'd miss the school bus. All I could do was open the valentine and write in my best handwriting, ''I love you, Mother," and sign my name. Funny thing about mothers... There was a proud smile on her face when I handed it to her, like a secret message between us. I think she loved that valentine more than any I ever made, or any I ever bought her afterwards. How am I sure? Perhaps I wasn't, not until I became a mother and today I received my first, one such valentine! NIGHT LIFE Kathryn Kay 'You are courageous,"' People tell me, You are brave and valiant, too." Which, though vastly complimentary Is not absolutely true, For | think perhaps my pillow Knows me better than most folk... It thinks me more a weeping willow Than a sturdy oak! IN DEFENSE OF VALENTINES Olive W. Burt Now let the messages of love be spoken. Let no one hesitate to say the word, To send the flower, or verse, or some small token That gives his love a voice that can be heard. For hate is vocal. Hate sends its hurtful message Straight to the anguished heart that must give heed; And lust and greed are noisy and derisive— Into the mangled air they shriek their creed. But love speaks softly, and is often silent, Trusting frail threads of thought too swiftly broken. So in this day when much is mad and violent Let love's sane messages be clearly spoken. 109 The banks a Willows trail the While darting v + - Comb w Q p oa ont., r ke " ir the ri to i - His at This Connecting sea | re, eve en, — \ eat of p to As we ran to the cabin. Splashing through soggy sand-beds, We gathered rocks and fed the river. Time wrapped us tight together, Through the seasons — Of a thousand yesterdays. 'y ww »., Velvet banks are blue with evening. The willows weep, s And happy waters rhythmically respond. Another curl of fish sperm rushes past, But the rain is quieter now. —: The dream of summer is near, > And the knowledge T., That you will come. ° ' My son, | I; Who gathered rocks of wisdom, To feed God's sheep on distant s It will be good to see yo Spanning the river mu J Below the puffs of spider-cl uds That spindle the sky., Whistling, you will wade, As day ripples out; Until rain hisses ' At your heels. E Then you will charge the currents To meet me, And we will stand agai Coiled into the hair of nis Along the sand-bars, Of rain river. Ay ' Rhubarb Reminds Me Genevieve Van Wagenen @ Whenever I see a rhubarb plant with its large, thick-veined leaves, I always recall the thrift and frugality practiced and taught by the pioneers. I could recall a happy childhood and the fun we youngsters had, and the things we made from the rhubarb leaves; but I don't— pioneer frugality looms more important—more memorable. My parents always had several clumps of rhubarb growing in our yard. My sisters and I loved the tart goodness. In the spring, we could hardly wait for it to mature. We would pull ourselves a stick of rhubarb, wash it, sprinkle it with salt, and chew away. (It makes my mouth pucker now, just to think of it.) As children, we also enjoyed creating "make-believe" hats from the large rippled leaves. The shapely rhubarb leaves were very adaptable for hats. We trimmed the hats with sprigs of lilacs, bridal wreath, tulips, and pansies, fresh from the garden. We fastened the flowers to the leaves with toothpicks. We were real creative with our jaunty spring bonnets. Each one tried to outdo the others. Our imaginations ran wild. Maybe we created a bouncy "Gay Ninety" bonnet, a perky sailor, or, perhaps, a peaked clown hat. We admired and sometimes 112 RHUBARB REMINDS ME laughed at our creations. When finished, we placed the hats atop our curls, at just the right angle. There was quite an art to balancing them. Then we were ready for the fashion parade. Into the house we marched. Mother beamed her approval. On one such occasion, mother said, ""You don't know how lucky you girls are. If you had been my friend Ella, you couldn't have had a rhubarb hat." "Why not?" we queried. Mother looked thoughtful for a moment. We gathered round. When mother looked and sounded that way, she usually let a treasure fall, and we all wanted to be near to catch it. "When I was about ten or twelve years of age,' mother began, "T had a friend named Ella Williams. Ella's mother was a widow. Her husband had died and left her with the responsibility of. Pro-: viding for five small children. It was a real struggle for Mrs. Williams, for she also had to support and care for her aged father, who was blind. They were poor, very poor," mother said, shaking her head sympathetically. "Women didn't work outside the home much in those days. Work wasn't available, as it is today. But the family was willing to work. They accepted any kind of work or job that was offered them. She took in washings and ironing. She scrubbed the clothes by hand, on a washboard. She always looked tired. "One day," mother continued, "my father pulled a large armful of rhubarb and told me to take it and give it to Mrs. Williams. My father was always mindful of the needy," she spoke impressively. "He always shared with the poor. You see, when my father was only thirteen years old, he walked across the plains—most of the way barefooted. The pioneers endured many hardships and difficulties. He knew what it meant to be hungry and cold. "Anyway," she said, picking up the story, "I took the rhubarb to Ella's mother. She was so grateful to have it. I stayed to play awhile with Ella. I was real surprised when Mrs. Williams began preparing the rhubarb. She didn't cut off the leaf and lay it to one side to be discarded, as my mother always did. Each large vein in the leaf was carefully cut out and saved. She didn't waste a bit that was edible." "You mean they ate the veins, too?" we grimaced in surprise. "That's exactly what they did. Wasn't she clever and courageous?" "T think it was silly,"' said six-year-old Bess. "T do, too," said Afton. "You think it was silly?" the tone of mother's voice indicated disappointment at their lack of understanding. '"That's because you have never been hungry. Mrs. Williams was a brave little soldier. She fought against the hardships of life. Thrift and frugality were her weapons. Without compromise or complaining, she struggled on. Her pioneer training paid off—you see—she won! She reared a wonderful family, a family of whom the whole town was proud." This true story made a great impression on me that day. One that I have never forgotten. And as the years rolled by, maturity has taught my sisters and me to call pioneer thrift and frugality by their noble names—courage and fortitude. 113 Quantity Cooking for Relief Society Functions Part IV — DESSERTS AND PUNCH Rosa Shurtz @ Nothing can finish a meal to perfection like a pie, cut evenly, set neatly in the center of the plate, and topped with a swirl of whipped cream or a little mountain of meringue. Prepared fillings are often more economical than starting from scratch, but sometimes the flavor isn't up to homemade. Try experimenting by adding more lemon juice, sugar, and butter to lemon filling. To make more volume for each package, fold the cooled filling into meringue instead of putting meringue on top. All fillings can use a little salt, more flavor, sugar, and a bit of butter. Don't be afraid to dress up a dessert with chopped nuts, grated chocolate, or whipped cream. Whipped cream can be an expensive item unless you are in a farming community. Try whipped topping made from dry milk crystals, which work very well in any dish using a gelatin base. Use the expensive cream for the finishing touches. On cobblers, crisps, or deep-dish desserts, part whipped dry milk topping can be folded into whipped cream. This adds to volume and cuts cost and calories. It doesn't hold well but must be used immediately. BASIC FRUIT PIE 14% qts. Juice from fruit 4 c. Lemon juice 114 c. Cornstarch 1% |b. Butter 144 qts. Sugar 2 No. 10 cans water packed fruit, 1 tbsp. Salt drained Heat 1 quart juice to boiling. Mix one pint of juice with cornstarch and add, while stirring, to hot juice. Cook until thick and clear. Stir in sugar, salt, lemon juice, and putter. Add drained fruit. Mix carefully. Cool and fill pastry lined pans. Cover with pastry. Bake at 425° thirty minutes until brown. Yield: eight 9-inch pies. May be poured into baked crusts and topped with whipping cream. Apricot Pie: use halved apricots. Berry Pies: 2 tsp. Cinnamon may be added with sugar. Cherry Pies: add red food color and almond flavoring. Peach Pie: almond flavoring and cinnamon may be added. Pineapple Pies: Tidbits or crushed pineapple. 114 QUANTITY COOKING FOR RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTIONS PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE 6 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin 2 tsp. Ginger 1% c. Cold water 2 tsp. Nutmeg 21% c. Sugar 2 tsp. Cinnamon 2 cans pumpkin No. 2 size Y%4 tsp. Ground cloves 3 c. Milk. 15 eggs, yolks and whites 1 tbsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cream of tartar Soften gelatin in cold water, mix pumpkin, milk, egg yolks, spices, salt, sugar, and cook, stirring until thick, add gelatin, stir until dissolved, and chill until syrupy and thickened. Add cream of tartar to egg whites, beat until stiff. Add two and a half cups of sugar, gradually, beating constantly, until stiff peaks are formed. Fold into pumpkin mixture. Pour into pie pans which have been lined with finely crushed vanilla wafers, graham. Crackers, or ginger snaps. Serve with whipped cream. Yield: Six 9-inch pies or 50 tarts. BASIC CITRUS CHIFFON PIE 27 egg yolks 1 tsp. Green, yellow, or orange food 334 c. Sugar coloring 21% tsp. Salt 5 c. Boiling water 3 c. Lime, lemon, orange, or 214 c. Lime, lemon, orange, or grapegrapefruit juice fruit flavored gelatin 10 tbsp. Grated rind from any of the 5 c. Egg whites above fruits 5 tsp. Cream of tartar 334 c. Sugar Mix first six ingredients together and cook over low heat, stirring until mixture boils. Remove from heat. Stir gelatin into boiling water, and beat into hot custard. Chill, and when partially set, beat until smooth. Add cream of tartar, to egg whites, beat until frothy, and add sugar gradually. Beat to very stiff peaks and fold into gelatin mixture. Pour into pie pans lined with finely crushed vanilla wafers, graham crackers, or ginger-snaps. Serve with whipped cream. Yield: Ten 10-inch pies. VARIATIONS: Strawberries or pineapple may be used, 3 cups juice drained from either. Use strawberry or lemon gelatin. Fold in strawberries or crushed pineapple. BASIC PARFAIT PIE 534, c. Crushed pineapple 2 qts. Vanilla ice cream 4 pkgs. Lime-flavored gelatin 6 nine-inch pie shells 114 qts. Water and juice drained from pineapple Drain fruit, reserve juice. Add water to syrup to make 114 quarts. Bring to boil and dissolve gelatin in hot liquid. Chill until thick as honey. Whip at medium speed about 12 minutes or until double in bulk and thick and fluffy. Soften ice cream to thickness of stiff whipped cream and at low speed add ice cream and pineapple. Mix until just evenly distributed. Pour into pie shells. Chill until firm. Yield: 6 nine-inch pies. VARIATION: Any fruit may be used, canned or fresh. Add sugar to fresh fruit and let set. Drain juice. Use gelatin same flavor as fruits. Garnish with whipped cream. 5 FEBRUARY 1966 OATMEAL CRUST 2 qts. Quick oats 1 tbsp. Salt 2 2/3 c. Sifted flour 2 2/3 c. Melted butter 2 2/3 c. Brown sugar Mix oats, flour, sugar, and salt. Add melted butter and mix until crumbly. Divide into eight parts and pack each part firmly into bottom and sides of nine-inch pie plate. Place an eight-inch plate on top of each to hold crumbs in place. Bake at 375° until brown, about fifteen minutes. Remove small plates several minutes after taking from oven. Cool and use for chiffon, custard, or cream fillings. Yield: eight 9-inch pies. SURPRISE FUDGE CAKE 434 c. Sugar 9 c. Sifted flour 3 c. Shortening 114 tbsp. Baking soda 114 tbsp. Vanilla 114 tbsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Salt 1 qt. Water 134 c. Cocoa 2 c. Sauerkraut 11 whole eggs Cream sugar and shortening on medium speed 10 minutes until creamy. Add vanilla, salt, and cocoa, continue beating for five minutes on high speed. Add eggs, blend on high speed until light and fluffy. Sift flour, baking powder, and soda together, and add alternately with water using low speed. Wash and chop kraut coarsely. Drain well and mix into batter thoroughly. Bake in greased floured sheet pan at 375° for forty-five minutes. Cool and frost. Yield: 40 to 45 servings. CAKE ROLL 3 c. Pancake mix (buttermilk) 3 c. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Vanilla 12 eggs Grease sides and bottoms of two pans 22" by 14" by 1"; line with wax paper, grease again, and dust with flour. Put eggs and salt in mixing bowl and beat about 45 seconds on high speed. Add sugar gradually, beating at medium speed until fluffy. Add vanilla and pancake mix and beat about 20 seconds at low speed. Spread evenly in pans and bake 8 to 10 minutes at 400°. Sprinkle two large towels with powdered sugar, while cakes are baking. Loosen cakes around the edge of pans, turn onto towels. Peel paper from cakes. Roll in towels and let stand ten minutes. Unroll and spread with one of fillings, roll up, and refrigerate several hours before serving. Yield: 48 servings. PINEAPPLE WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 1/3 c. Cold water. 3 c. Heavy cream, whipped. 2 envelopes unflavored gelatin 14 c. Powdered sugar 3 c. Drained crushed pineapple Soften gelatin in cold water and dissolve over hot water. Fold into whipped cream with sugar and pineapple. Spread on cake, reroll and refrigerate. FRUIT WHIPPED CREAM FILLING 2 envelopes unflavored gelatin 3 c. Sifted powdered sugar 1 qt. Heavy cream, whipped 6 c. Fresh or frozen drained fruit, 1/3 c. Cold water: blueberries, strawberries, or peaches Soften gelatin in cold water and set in pan of hot water to dissolve. Cool slightly. Fold into whipped cream. Add powdered sugar. Spread on cake, and spread fruit over cream. Reroll. 116 QUANTITY COOKING FOR RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTIONS DEEP-DISH CHERRY PUDDING 6 qts. Red cherries, pitted 3¥% qts. Sugar 1144 c. Cornstarch 1 tbsp. Mace 5 c. Sugar 2 c. Shortening 1 tbsp. Salt 8 eggs 214 qts. Pancake mix 1 qt. Milk Drain cherries. Bring juice to boil. Combine sugar, salt, and cornstarch with some of the cold juice and stir into hot juice. Cook until thick and clear. Add cherries and bring to boil. Put two quarts cherries into each of three pans (16"' by 10" by 2''). Combine dry ingredients for batter into mixer bowl. Add shortening, milk, and eggs. Beat 30 seconds at low speed. Scrape bottom of bowl. Increase speed to medium and beat thirty seconds longer. Spread one-third batter on each pan evenly. Bake at 350° forty-five to fifty minutes. Serve warm with cream or ice cream. Yield: 50 servings. GOLDEN PUNCH 2 cans (6 oz. Size) frozen orange juice concentrated 2 cans (6 oz. Size) frozen lemon juice concentrated 2 cans (12 oz. Size) apricot nectar 2 cans pineapple juice 26 oz. Bottle sparkling water Add water to concentrate according to directions. Combine with juice and sparkling water. Add ice. Yield: about 7 quarts. NOTE: Orange and lemon powdered drink mixes used according to directions may be used as a substitute for concentrates. BUTTER CRANBERRY PUNCH 114 c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 12 c. Water 34, tsp. Salt 6 c. Jellied cranberry sauce 34 tsp. Nutmeg 3 qts. Pineapple juice 1¥, tsp. Cinnamon Butter 1% tsp. Allspice Whole cinnamon sticks (optional) 214 tsp. Ground clove Butter, as desired Mix sugar and spices with three cups water and bring to boil. In a large pan crush cranberry sauce, add rest of water, and beat until smooth. Add pineapple juice and spiced syrup. Simmer about four minutes. Serve hot, with butter and cinnamon sticks for stirrers if desired. Yield: 50 servings. PARTY PUNCH 4 c. Sugar 214 c. Orange juice 2 c. Water 5 c. Pineapple juice 2 c. Lemon juice 12 oz. Maraschino cherries and juice 2 qts. Dry ginger ale Boil sugar and two cups water for ten minutes. Add lemon, orange, and pineapple juice. Chill for several hours. Add cherries, water, and ginger ale. Pour over ice or for special occasions add three quarts of ice cream to punch bowl. Yield: 60 servings. LUAU PUNCH 2 cans passion fruit juice 1 can grapefruit juice 1 can pineapple juice 2 c. Lemon juice 4 (26 02.) sparkling water Pour over ice in punch bowl. Yield: 40 large servings - 80 small servings. 117 an * -._ 2. _ FF is es Pees: "Scrap Happy' Loray C. Randall —: | @ 'Lisa, I do believe you're preparing yourself for a brilliant career as a rag picker!" How many times we had jokingly made this statement to our five-year-old in the last year I couldn't say, but it was getting to be a common expression. Also becoming all too common was my exasperation at finding bits and scraps of material tucked in such places as purses, the toy box, the magazine rack, and the underclothes drawer. Lisa was so fascinated with swatches of fabric and so determined, that I couldn't discard even the tiniest bit. I began doing the cutting for my own sewing projects when she was at Primary, visiting a friend, or other times when I knew she would be away from the house long enough for me to complete the job and throw away the scraps. Then I had an inspiration—a scrapbook. My first effort was a fabric book about four by five inches, with a denim cover which contained twelve different fabric swatches. These were stitched six on each half of the denim cover with a strip of wide bias tape stitched down the middle which nicely solved the problem of raw edges in the center of the book. When possible, I used a selvage edge at the outside edge of the page with the top and bottom page edges pinked or cut as the raveling probability of the individual fabric dictated. This book had a wide sampling of fabric types, including a bouclé wool, terry cloth, net, both pinwale and wide wale corduroy, organdy, and other fabrics selected for their combination of interesting textures and color appeal. The cover was marked Lisa's Scrapbook. This is a very quiet toy and one which can be easily tucked into a handbag for silent amusement when a little girl might otherwise get the wiggles in meetings or waiting for appointments. It would also be of interest to a child restricted to quiet play because of illness. Although my original purpose in making the scrapbook was to eliminate the bits and pieces of fabric that collected among Lisa's things, and to entertain her with the textures and colors of the fabrics, I found that the book has become an educational toy. It has piqued her curiosity as to the names of the various fabrics and what makes them different from each other. Why do the bouclé wool and terry cloth have loops? Why can I see through the organdy? Why does the corduroy feel rough when I rub it one way and smooth when I rub it the other? Obviously, the toy is also educational for mother who doesn't always have the answers immediately available. I feel the idea of the scrapbook could be adapted for children of various ages. Toddlers learning colors could have a book of plain swatches in bright colors. An extra challenge might be offered by including a single plaid or tweed, offering the opportunity of seeing how many different colors could be found in the single swatch. A picture book could be made for baby. Can you imagine a polkadot fruit tree with a rough brown corduroy trunk set against a blue broadcloth sky in which drifted a white terry-cloth cloud? A few minutes with the zigzag stitch, and these things would be put quickly and permanently in place and, 118 if fabrics used were selected carefully, the book would be completely washable, even by machine. Older children in the family could originate fabric pictures for baby's book making it an interesting and inexpensive project for a family home evening activity. Older girls being taught to sew might make scrapbooks of their own for various families of fabrics with characteristics of each fabric noted for reference. For this type of scrapbook, the swatches might be most conveniently mounted in a notebook of some type. Another helpful book for the future seamstress would be one of various woven and non-woven materials used as interfacings. These ideas might serve as a springboard for new projects of your own and, if all else fails, and your daughter does grow up to be a rag picker, at least she will know her rags. S77" For Years to Come The fragrance of life is often measured in little things—small deeds of kindness done daily, a cheery greeting, a warm handclasp, a simple act of helpfulness, a note of gratitude or appreciation—small acts, but each is a flower that leaves behind a gentle fragrance of blessings for years to come. —Catherine B. Bowles e, "an TA Lit POe® Elizabeth Williamson This hardy biennial (Allium porrum) needs no introduction to our gardens and tables. During the winter we add leeks to our stews, soups, and vegetablemeat dishes, then we cast this poor vegetable aside for the abundance of attractive spring produce. However, summer is just around the corner, and this is the season we anticipate serving cool, attractive meals. What could be more delectable than that good old standby, vichyssoise? The thrifty French farmers knew this so well. The leek was not only savory, but plentiful and cheap. It eventually worked its way up and earned a reputation as a gourmet soup. Here is a simple recipe for vichyssoise (chilled leek soup): 6 leeks salt and pepper 5 or 6 medium-sized 114 c. Cream, chilled potatoes (heavy cream is tastier) 4 tbsp. Butter chopped chives or parsley 6 c. Chicken broth or nutmeg, if desired chicken stock Wash the leeks thoroughly. Cut off the green tops, slice lengthwise. Sauté in the butter until soft (but not brown). Peel and dice potatoes, boil until tender, drain, and add potatoes and chicken broth or stock to the leeks. Simmer for about ten minutes. Remove from heat, and put through a sieve. Add the salt and ground pepper to taste. Chill over night. Add chilled cream before serving and sprinkle chives or parsley on top. If you have an electric blender, the vegetables and broth can be mixed together thoroughly and chilled. You may like to try a dash of nutmeg on each serving. It adds an unusual flavor. HERB BREAD Herb bread is appetizing and an interesting accompaniment for vichyssoise. Prepare the herb butter as you are preparing the soup. For 1% cube of butter add 14 tsp. Marjoram and 1% tsp. Basil (fresh or dry). Blend into butter. Allow to stand in refrigerator butter compartment. The following day, spread rounds of bread with the herb butter, sprinkle parsley or chives on top. Toast in oven. This recipe may be doubled, depending on the amount one wishes to serve. 120 THE LOVELY LEEK LEEKS IN DECORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS Gardeners and flower arrangers take note: In my small garden (vegetable experimental garden), | have had two rows of leek plants for years, using some in the kitchen and saving some for seed. The tall stems, with the beautiful large balls of seed pods at the top, are saved for my flower arranging friends who make stunning compositions, adding unusual dried plants, rocks, driftwood, weeds, and anything unusual they can find in the mountains, deserts, and beaches. The older plants are replaced by the volunteer ones which drop seeds from the large balls of seed pods. In this manner there is no planting, only transplanting the following spring. Leeks seem to be insect free. They require very little water or cultivation. In all, they are a very satisfactory vegetable, delicious in the kitchen and, as decorative material, pleasing and interesting to the onlooker. AGAINST THE SNOW Caroline Eyring Miner The morning sun bathes in ethereal light The old brick home nestled in tall dark trees. Gnarled and twisted, their branches laced with bright Green leaves, dotted with lonely nests to tease New birds to stay, these sentinels stand guard, Limned like an embroidered frieze on the sky In pastel pinks and grays. If they are scarred, No matter. There will no more be young to try The hay lofts, catch a pigeon on the wing. And berry patch and orchard will be cold, Awaiting shout and mischief of the harvesting. They have been up since dawn. Today, the old Home nest will be demolished, so they must go And gather memories against the snow. 121 Promise Nelda P. Litchfield, Calgary, Alberta, Canada @ Daddy knocked softly on the door, and Jane called out, "Is that you, Daddy?" "Yes, dear. Have you time for a brief heart-to-heart talk with your old Dad?" "Of course! Come in. I'm still working on the hem of my wedding dress. Is it all right if I keep sewing while we chat?" "Certainly, Janie. I realize you have so much to have ready for next week, when we will go to the temple with you for your marriage." And so they talked. Jane had nearly finished the hem, when Daddy asked her if she would make him a promise. She did not hesitate for a moment, because she knew he had never asked her to do anything which was not right. Daddy became very serious, as he said, "Janie—when your honeymoon is over, in two weeks or so, will you promise me that you will start Relief Society right off the bat?" "Relief Society? Oh, Daddy, in the ward where we shall be living, the sisters just don't attend Relief Society until after they have a few children." "Then, my daughter, you be the first!" Daddy was ready to leave when Jane gave her promise. He smiled and added, "Janie dear, the Lord feels very strongly about this Relief Society meeting requirement. To a mature Latter-day Saint woman, Relief Society is just as important as Priesthood meeting is to the men of the Church. I know this is true. Do you know that my mother's father exacted a promise from her such as you have made tonight? She thanked her father hundreds and hundreds of times for the decision he helped her to make. Janie, I have always known the joy this organization has given my mother. Your mother, too, attended Relief Society, the Tuesday after we got back from our honeymoon; and, tonight, dear, you know where she is, at her Relief Society executive meeting at the church. Janie, at Relief Society, you will never learn anything false or wrong in any way. "My very beautiful little girl, I have been so very grateful, so pleased, so lucky to have a daughter like you! Your days in Sunday School, Primary, Mutual, Seminary, college, and teaching school in this town have brought you to this point. You are ready for your temple marriage. I love you, my girl, for your good decisions." Jane's father left the room, and Jane could feel that tears would soon be spilling out on the expensive white gown. She placed her wedding dress fondly on the bed, and kneeling, she thanked the Lord for her kind of a father and mother, who were even so old-fashioned that when she was going on her first "date," the whole family knelt down and prayed for her protection and safety. 122 SX eS = s te Phankuchen Janet W. Breeze @I love my grandmother's kitchen! It's a freshly painted "family room," where an old coal stove lines up against the white wall alongside one of those new-fangled electric things. In the summertime, pots and kettles purr atop even, red coils; but, come winter, the old stove shakes the soot from its pipe, takes a newspaper rubdown, and ushers in a new season of coziness. And, should a hungry grandchild or two stop by, it doesn't take much coaxing before Grandma climaxes the visit with a phankuchen. The first time Grandma and the old stove introduced me to this taste-treatdeluxe, I was cautioned to remember that phankuchen is a real pancake— it fills the pan. The little things J made, Grandma assured me, were merely hot cakes. When I asked for the recipe—you guessed it—there was none. (Scientifically, that is.) But she made an effort to work slowly enough for me to determine and write down the amount of each ingredient she added. And here's how it came out: 2 heaping tbsps. Flour 2 tbsps. Shortening. Pour batter into Y% tsp. Salt hot shortening and cook until edges of 2% tsp. Sugar pancake are firm and underneath side 2 eggs is lightly brown. Turn without breakEnough milk to make batter the coning (Grandma can) and cook until sistency of a thick cream soup. Golden. Beat with rotary beater until foamy. Heat ten-inch iron skillet containing Grandma's phankuchen, spread with butter and homemade strawberry jam, serves two. However, I found myself with five hungry mouths impatiently waiting for "fun cookin' "—and no iron skillet. So—we double the recipe at our house and cook at 380° in a large electric frying pan. And—but please don't tell Grandma how unskilled I am—lI always cut the phankuchen in fours before turning. Nevertheless, cut or uncut, there's nothing quite like 'a pancake that fills the pan!" 123 FEBRUARY 1966: oon a aon wor ae Sunburst and Diamonds Many Patterns for Many Quilts Pearl Nielsen, Axtell Ward, Gunnison Stake, has made more than one hundred quilts, cutting and sewing the blocks, and doing all of the quilting herself. Many arrangement. 'A woman can stitch many thoughts about life into a quilt," Mrs. Nielsen has said to her friends, "and quilts are a useful ornament in any home." Mrs. Nielsen is mother to ten children, and she is proud and grateful for her Presidency. Known and loved throughout the Gunnison Valley, she has observed the Relief Society motto all her life—''Charity never faileth."' 124 Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter Two — Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes that, in spite of the many material blessings enjoyed by the family, there is a need for spirituality. Sabra, a sensitive and thoughtful daughter, seems to be searching for something deep and satisfying in her life. @ When the candles were blown and the birthday songs silent, the children went reluctantly to bed. Jennie dressed again for the party and went downstairs. Rex looked up from his paper. "Do we have to go?" "No," said Jennie. She took off the mink stole and sat across from him. "Tm _ tired,' Rex said. He rubbed his eyes. ""The stock market is edgy. The world is edgy." He looked up, "But Sabra is better... She looks better, don't you think?" "Yes," said Jennie heavily. "But I wish they'd take her tonsils out." "Not until summer. With you, Jen?" Jennie got up and lit the gas under the logs and watched the blue flames come out and lick the bark. What's with me? She thought. What's with me, is that I have to ask Rex for something, What's and this is the first time that I have been afraid he would refuse me. She came back and pulled a cushion from the couch and sat on it and leaned against his knee. "T love you, Rex... Emptyheaded as I am... I love you." "Likewise," he said gravely. He touched her bright hair. "So now, what is it? New drapes?" "When I was little," she said slowly, "Father used to talk a lot about God and things...." "Different, our family was the feckless sort." ''When I was little," she went on, "he used to teach me, about God and all that...." "I thought you were a little odd ball when I first met you, and then I learned about how you had been brought up, and I could see it would have that effect, looking at it from a psychological point of view." 125 FEBRUARY 1966 "But looking at it from a spiritual point of view," said Jennie quietly, 'is quite another matter. I've been very troubled about Sabra's action today. I feel we have failed her." "We're happy," said Rex. "We are happy, and we're going to stay that way. We're what everyone dreams of being, rich, young, familied, with a proper assortment of friends, brains, and fun. Who could ask for more?" "Sabra," said Jennie. "'She's always asking for more," Rex said shortly, 'the books she reads.. Brain crackers for eighteen-year-olds."' "She's different." "Agreed. We'll have to channel her energies more." "How? Dancing, piano, speech, she's still hungry." "T know." He loves her, thought Jennie, as I love her, half pain, half pride, and all tenderness and fear. "'She's not like the others. She needs more... Of something." "Let me go unearth my Phi Beta Kappa key." She sat away from him. "Do so. It won't feed her. What she's searching for isn't found where you found the key." "What she's searching for will lead her off on one tangent after another," said her father. Jennie turned to him quickly. '"'Let me go back, Rex. Let me go back to my own Church, with my children! Let me see to it that they aren't drawn into something that will prove their undoing." "There was a youngster... Not quite like Sabra," Rex said slowly, his face troubled. "It was in high school... She finally committed suicide... She was brilliant, involved, and confused." 126 "T must take them back with me." Jennie lifted her face to his. '"Let me," she pleaded. He sat back and considered. "We said no religion ever... When we married." "T know," she nodded. "It was easy enough to say no religion... Like I won't ever eat again... Or I won't read another book. In love one promises impossible things." She lifted her eyes to his. "T still am that much in love." She bit her lip. "But now there are others besides myself involved." He kissed her gently. "When you are tired your eyes get such an impossible blue and so enormous.... Like Lora's, did you know?" He folded his arms. "I don't know anything about your Church... Not really." "T've forgotten a lot,' she said, "and I am not good at explaining, but I remember how secure I felt as a child, with the Primary and the Sunday School lessons and Mother coming home from Relief Society after giving a lesson. It was my life." To her misery was added the longing for other years and other faces. "No," said Rex stubbornly, "I have got to think this over." "Even if I could give them that much... Give Sabra that much... It might keep her from those endless hours in her room." He was silent. "We could try it... For a year, say," Jennie was beginning to talk very fast, compulsively. "One year ought to tell us if it's the right or wrong way. Then we would know." He curled a strand of her hair in his fingers. "I was reading Nietsche today, his 'Thus Spoke Zarathustra. Even God, he claims, has his hell... It is his love for his children. I could agree with that... Feeling as I do for mine." They stopped talking and watched the fire. Jennie had the tightrope feeling again. Above all, beyond all, this must not cost a rift between them. Whatever it was, however it led, she must walk side by side with Rex. Rex said tonelessly, "Don Spangler's daughter ran away. Did you know that?" "Samantha told me." "And he's a psychiatrist... One of the best, in my opinion. But even he could not help his child." " A year is such a little time," said Jennie. Her voice broke. "The world is such a confused and frightened world. We don't seem to hate anybody any more. Nor are we surprised by horror... We keep fighting and breaking the laws because we can't seem to help ourselves. Rex, it's the families who are the forts now. The only fortresses against the tigers." "A year is short," Rex agreed. "At least we will have tried something. I was not brought up in a WHEAT FOR THE WISE church, so I can't evaluate its effect on the young mind." He rose and turned toward the fireplace. "If she were only like the others." "Her difference is the thing that will make her or break her,"' Jennie said reluctantly. 'The other children we can understand... But with Sabra we grope." "Only a year," he said huskily. "After that, we do it my way." "What is your way?" she asked in quick alarm. She watched him prepare the room for the night, turning off the fire, securing the windows. He was tall and quick and thin, his face was keen and intelligent, his friends were the best. Rex demanded the best. She could be sure of one thing—he would be watching and measur- -Ing, weighing and studying. But at least she had taken the first step and was still standing. Rex took her hand. "I'll be working on an alternate,"' he said, "a year wil give me insight and time." He grinned at her, "After all, it just came up this evening." She could not contradict him, but in herself she knew the problem had existed since their marriage, shelved. (To be continued) GENUINE LOVE Virginia Brown Genuine love is a spiritual commodity which demands no down payment by the recipient. The only required collateral security is need. Terms are extended infinitely, with an unconditional guarantee attached. Kindness and humility pay the interest. Wisdom adds daily to the investment. The pure in heart hold the franchise, and prospects are as numerous as the human race. Any idle moment marks the past due date with the end of eternity as expiration. 127 ato FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Danish Mission, Copenhagen and Jyiland Districts Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference Ingrid A. Sorenson, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, stands in the front row, seventh from the left: Lillian Krammer, Copenhagen District chorister, is seventh from the left in the second row; DeAnna Yates is pianist; and Inger Larsen, second from the left in the front row, is president of the Copenhagen District Relief Society. Sister Sorenson reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Copenhagen and Jylland Districts are always eager to furnish music for the quarterly conferences. These sisters travel long distances, but are willing to give of their time and talents." Inger Fisher Rasmussen is president of the Danish Mission Relief Society, with Edith Christensen as first counselor and Tova -Birhskov as secretarytreasurer. St. Joseph Stake (Arizona), Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society Mothers and Daughters Day June 1, 1965 Ileen Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports: ""We feel that the Mothers and Daughters Day is a splendid way to introduce Relief Society to our teenage daughters. The girls enjoyed the lessons and the instructions in handicraft, especially learning to quilt. A potluck luncheon was served at noon." Manuela T. Mickelson is president of the Thatcher Second Ward Relief Society; Erdine Layton, First Counselor; Jeanene Flake, Second Counselor: Virginia Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Olive P. Hoopes, work meeting leader. Hayward Stake (California) Leadership Meeting September 24, 1965 Front row, left to right: Rexine Glenn, organist; Erma Neilsen, Work Counselor; Vera Crockett, President; Rose Winkle, Education Counselor; Edna Jelison, Secretary-Treasurer; Eileen Turek, literature class leader. Back row: Gwenn Webb, visiting teacher message leader; Georgene Moffitt, social science class leader; Catherine Russell, chorister; Anna Hoem, who made the Relief Society emblem featured in the center of the picture; Rama Lee, work meeting leader; Esther Kenison, theology class leader. Sister Crocket reports: "Our opening leadership meeting was a most spiritual occasion. The theme of the year's program—charity—was beautifully brought into focus by a large Relief Society emblem in blue and gold glass, surrounded by twelve miniature lights. Each board member, in turn, lighted a light, after giving a fitting quotation on our theme, and on her special assignment. Elder Delbert Wright, President of the Oakland Temple, was the guest speaker." 128 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. FEBRUARY 1966 Albuquerque Stake (New Mexico) Visiting Teacher Convention September 11, 1965 Left to right: Lynda King, Los Lunas Branch, the youngest visiting teacher, age twenty; Betty Jean Steffensen, stake visiting teacher message leader; Maude Barb, the eldest active visiting teacher, age eighty-nine. Vera Mae K. Hamilton, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society, reports that an autumn motif and color scheme were used throughout the convention. The film "A Light Shining" was presented, and music was provided by the Albuquerque Third Ward Singing Mothers. Santa Monica Stake (California), La Cienega Ward Opening Social and Testimonial September 28, 1965 In the center of front row: Odette Coulam, honored President, with daughters Nancy Jex and Billie Morgan on either side; First Counselor Inis Turner, third from Sister Coulam's left; Second Counselor Melba Maynard, fourth from Sister Coulam's left; the new La Cienega Ward Relief Society President Evelyn Astle, first at the right on the front row; theology class leader Eloise Chalfont, second from the right, first row; Evelyn Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, fifth from the right on the second row. Sister Bluth reports: "The "This Is Your Life' program was written and directed by Eloise Chalfont. The new ward president Evelyn Astle contacted over forty people who had served with Sister Odette Coulam during her seventeen years as ward and stake president. Many of these people traveled hundreds of miles to be in attendance. The mission of Relief Society was beautifully demonstrated by the portrayal of the life of Sister Coulam—this much-loved woman—in prose, poetry, and music. The large group who attended were uplifted and inspired by the dedication and devotion of this exemplary woman to so order their lives that they might become more active in Relief Society and invite others to participate with them." Yellowstone Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board Entertains Ward Relief Society Officers and Teachers at ''Preview of Lessons" September 8, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Leola Beddes, Magazine representative; Della Davis, literature class leader; Anna Romrell, visiting teacher class leader; Deon Davis, social science class leader; Ruth Reynolds, theology class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Lisle L. Andrus, former president, Yellowstone Stake Relief Society; Ortella Clark, First Counselor; Jeanne Siddoway, Second Counselor; Mary B. Williams, Secretary-Treasurer; Margaret Stanford, work meeting leader; Naomi Jergensen, chorister; Betty Tibbits, organist; Roma Williams, who had charge of the film and photography. Sister Andrus reports: "There were 120 in attendance from eleven wards and the West Yellowstone Branch. The 'Preview of Lessons' was initiated four years ago by this board. The invitations, lesson ideas for the year, decorations, music, programs, and #efreshments have been organized under a special theme for that particular evening. The special themes for the four years have been: The Beautiful Lady in Blue; The Good Ship Relief Society; Keys to Wisdom; and 'Let There Be Light.' The September 1965 meeting was the highlight of Relief Society in Yellowstone Stake, and an outstanding spiritual experience." Denice Parker is the new president of Yellowstone Stake, and Sister Andrus is president of Ricks College Stake Relief Society. 130 FEBRUARY 1966 Idaho State University Stake (Pocatello, Idaho), First Ward Relief Society Opening Social October 21, 1965 Seated in front, left to right: Marie VanderBeek, First Counselor; Veloe Brasier, President; Carolyn Winn, Second Counselor. Second row: Gayle Sweat, organist; Gayla Olson, Magazine representative; Janet Dixon, social science class leader; Joyce Craig, work director; Jane Nielsen; Diane Perry, visiting teacher message leader. Carol D. Chase, President, Idaho State University Stake, reports that the invitations to the social were unique in the form of a ticket and carried a message of welcome to the Relief Society program: Come Aboard the Relief Society Train Tickets sold to: University First Ward sisters Boarding time: 7:15 p. M. October 21, 1965 Special feature of the trip: A special seat was reserved in the Relief Society lesson cars. Live entertainment in the lounge car, and a luncheon served in the dining car. Destination: A greater love and unity in our ward. Phoenix West Stake Relief Society Ward Presidencies at Leadership Meeting September 17, 1965 Seated, front row, left to right: Members of Phoenix West Stake Relief Society Board: Irma R. Harris, work meeting leader; M. Dianne Johns, Magazine representative; Hazel B. Gunderson, literature class leader; Phyllis G. Peters, visiting teacher message leader; Ethelyn M. Eagar, Second Counselor; Millicent K. Winsor, President; Julia W. Riggs, First Counselor; Ione J. Simonson, Secretary-Treasurer; Anne P. Riggs, theology class leader; Fayne N. Colyar, chorister; Barbara B. Brown, social science class leader. Standing are members of the presidencies of Glendale Second Ward, Phoenix Ninth Ward, Phoenix Tenth Ward, Phoenix Seventeenth Ward, Phoenix Nineteenth Ward, Phoenix Twenty-first Ward, and Phoenix Twentysixth Ward. Sister Winsor reports: "Of the seven ward presidents, six are new during this calendar year. In September the stake Relief Society presidency met with each ward presidency in a special meeting to discuss the individual responsibility of each member, the specific duties, and any questions pertaining to their calling. We feel a great deal was accomplished through these meetings, gaining a closer bond of sisterhood and love for each other, as well as greater unity and understanding between the ward and stake officers." Australian Mission, Canberra Branch Singing Mothers Present Music For the Opening of the New Chapel June 27, 1965 Front row, left to right: Nelly Earle, chorister; Valerie Jardie; Shauna Kelly; Wilma Hay; Nancy Francis; Dorothy Miles. Second row: Betty Dopson, President; Annie Stoker; Theda Anderson; Jean Vonthethoff, Secretary-Treasurer; Eileen Keenan, Second Counselor; Hilda Hay; Adelyne Smith. Back row, missionary sisters: Donna McAllister and Silvia Boelter. Seated at the piano: Lynne Grenville. Laurine A. Ensign, Supervisor, Australian Mission Relief Society, reports that the opening of the Canberra chapel occurred before she arrived in the mission, and during the time that Vivian H. Coombs was the Relief Society supervisor in the mission. Fifteen sisters comprised the choir, and they sang 'Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd" and "Each Cooing Dove." The singing was quite an achievement for these women, as they had been practicing together for only two months. The day will long be remembered by all those present. 132 FEBRUARY 1966 St. Johns Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference September 29, 1965 Burma S. Hamblin, President, St. Johns Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture shows our Singing Mothers in the Tabernacle. The chorus sang 'O Divine Redeemer,' conducted by Francelle Boman, and 'One World, conducted by Rosie B. Hall. Betty Jo LeSueur is stake organist. Elder Roy M. Darley accompanied our singing in the Tabernacle, and is seated at the organ in the picture. "Our Relief Society stake counselors are Edith H. Eagar and Goldie West. Wanda H. Hall is secretary-treasurer. All of the officers sang with the chorus. Stake President Bryant Whiting and one of his Counselors, Elmo Jarvis, are seated with the group. Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society is also seated with us. She came to our stake to work with us, and from her we received inspiration as well as instruction. "There are nine wards in our stake, and sisters from each ward participated, some of them driving 260 miles to rehearsals. Each ward was responsible for its finances for the trip. They made their money through bake sales, serving family reunion dinners, and conventions. Also, they operated refreshment booths at rodeos and fairs, and two wards joined forces and planted, hoed, and harvested a patch of green corn. We feel that our appearance in the Tabernacle was a wonderful inspirational experience. We are grateful for it, and feel that it united us as sisters in the stake. We chartered three buses, and most of the 120 sisters, as well as our stake president, traveled to Salt Lake City by bus. 134 THEOLOGY — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 72 — The First Presidency — Keys of the Kingdom (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 90, 91, 92) For First Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To understand the place of the keys of the Priesthood INTRODUCTION In December 1832, the Lord instructed the Prophet Joseph Smith that all who should become members of the School of the Prophets should, by ordinance, be clean from the blood of this generation. (D&C 88:138-141.) They were told that wilful sinning would bring the penalty of being turned over to the buffetings of Satan until the day of redemption. (DHC 1:323-324.) KNOWLEDGE AND SIN On March 8, 1833, the Lord gave Section 90 in which confirmation is made of blessings wherein forgiveness of sins was granted by the Lord. The Prophet Joseph Smith was informed _ that his sins were forgiven (verse 1), and both Sidney Rigdon and in the gospel plan. Frederick G. Williams were also given the same assurance. The Doctrine and Covenants Commentary brings our attention to the fact that the sins of these brethren were not serious, but as men learn more of their responsibilities in the Church and also advance in understanding of the need for closer observance to the commandments, they recognize wherein they may improve their lives. (Pages 576-577.) Is it not true that more knowledge of gospel principles brings the conviction by the Spirit that further efforts must be made to perfect one's life? THE KEYS OF THE PRIESTHOOD What are the "keys" of the Priesthood? Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery received -these keys at the hands of John the 135 FEBRUARY 1966 Baptist, Peter, James, and John and the heavenly visitants mentioned in Section 110. Without these powers the Lord's Church would not be a kingdom of order. With the prophet holding these powers throughout the world, he may direct the use of the Priesthood by every person who has received an ordination to the Priesthood. The "keys" constitute the power to direct the use of the Priesthood. An important principle, also, that every person should know is derived from an understanding of the functioning of these keys. No male ordained to the Priesthood may exercise this authority in performing ordinances unless he is given permission to do so. The Priesthood ordination bestows the power to act for the Lord, but the person's acts in using the Priesthood are not valid if the Church officer over him has not authorized him to use the Priesthood. For example, in the ordinance of baptism, even though one may be an ordained high priest, he cannot baptize unless the bishop of his ward or the presiding officer where he resides gives him permission to baptize. The bishop, in this case, holds the keys of authority in his ward. Similarly, a stake president holds keys for his stake. But, in both of these cases, neither bishop nor stake president has authority to function outside of the ward or stake over which he is set apart to preside. Thus, the powers of presiding, under the keys of the Priesthood, are limited to the jurisdiction given to the officer by the authority of the President of the Church. The prophet sees that the Lord's work is carried on throughout the world by confer- 136 ring local jurisdiction to the many officers who function under him. JOSEPH SMITH AND THE KEYS Six months after the Church was organized, the Lord gave a revelation in which he instructed the Church that there is only one man at a time who holds all the keys of the Priesthood. At that time it was the First Elder of the Church—Joseph Smith. It was indicated in that revelation that the Prophet was to hold these powers "until I shall appoint unto them another in his stead" (D&C 28:7). Even the appointment of the Prophet to preside over the Church was to be done by the common consent of the Church, by the prayer of faith. (Ibid., verses 12-13.) Onehalf year passed and a situation arose in the Church that demanded a reiteration of the principle of one revelator for the Church. Another person claimed such a right, but the Lord's kingdom is one of order. In the course of this reaffirmation of this most important principle, the Lord said concerning Joseph Smith: And this ye shall know assuredly— that there is none other appointed unto you to receive commandments and revelations until he be taken, if he abide in me (Ibid., 43:3). Before the Quorum of the Twelve was appointed, the Lord made known that the Prophet would hold the keys of the kingdom throughout time and eternity. Verily I say unto you, the keys of the kingdom shall never be taken from | you, while thou art in the world, neither in the world to come; Nevertheless, through you shall the oracles be given to another, yea, even unto the church (Zbid., 90:3-4). THE TWELVE AND THE KEYS The expressions "oracles" and "even to the church" are explained in this authoritative passage:..- In the plural it [oracles] means the Revelations given. By God (Rom. 3:2; I Peter 4:11)....... Yet when the Prophet should be taken the "oracles" would be given to another, "even to the Church." Therefore after the martyrdom the keys remained and were in possession of the Church and exercised through the presiding council, which at that time was the council of the Twelve Apostles, and in the Church the oracles are found and will continue unto the end of time (Doctrine. And Covenants Commentary, page 577). When the Prophet Joseph Smith was martyred, the President of the Twelve Apostles and the other members of the Twelve presided over the Church. What powers do the apostles possess which would give them authority to preside over the Church upon the death of the Prophet? Among others, President Wilford Woodruff has left his testimony of the conferring of the keys of the Priesthood by Joseph Smith upon the Twelve. The last speech that Joseph Smith ever made to the Quorum of the Apostles was in a building in Nauvoo, and it was such a speech as I never heard from mortal man before or since. He was clothed upon with the Spirit and power of God. His face was clear as amber. The room was filled as with consuming fire. He stood three hours upon his feet. Said he: "You Apostles of the Lamb of God have been chosen to carry out the purposes of the Lord on the earth. Now, I have received, as the Prophet, seer and revelator, standLESSON DEPARTMENT ing at the head of this dispensation, every key, every ordinance, every principle and every Priesthood that belongs to the last dispensation and fulness of times. And I have sealed all these things upon your heads. Now, you Apostles, if you do not rise up and bear off this kingdom, as I have given it to you, you will be damned." I am the only witness left on earth that can bear record of this, and I am thankful that I have lived to see the day in which I stand (Conference Report April 1898, page 89). What process continued the existence of the keys of the Priesthood following the martyrdom of the Prophet? At the time of the ordination of each apostle he is given all of the Priesthood authority received by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The conferring of the keys of the Priesthood does not diminish the Priesthood of the person performing the ordination. There are thousands of elders holding the same authority. Similarly, there may be many who hold the keys of the Priesthood, as the Twelve Apostles, but there is only one person at a time who holds these keys actively; that is, to receive revelation for the Church and to direct its activities. The Twelve Apostles hold these keys inactively; that is, they use these latter authorities when called upon by the President of the Church, and when the President dies, they use these powers to appoint the new President of the Church by revelation. THE KEYS AND WORTHINESS President Joseph F. Smith discussed these powers and the need for worthiness on the part of him who holds them, as indicated in verse 5 of Section 90. 137 FEBRUARY 1966... If any man in that position should become unfaithful, God would remove him out of his place. I testify in the name of Israel's God that He will not suffer the head of the Church, him whom He has chosen to stand at the head, to transgress His laws and apostatize; the moment he should take a course that would in time lead to it, God would take him away. Why? Because to suffer a wicked man to occupy that position, would be to allow, as it were, the fountain to become corrupted, which is something He will never permit. And why will he not suffer it? Because it is not the work of Joseph Smith; it is not the work of Brigham Young or of John Taylor. It is not the work of man but of God Almighty; and it is His business to see that the men who occupy this position are men after His own heart, men that will receive instructions from Him, and that will carry out the same according to the counsels of His will (Journal of Discourses 24:192). THE FIRST PRESIDENCY ORGANIZED On March 18, 1833, ten days after Section 90 was received, the First Presidency was organized with Joseph Smith as President, Sidney Rigdon, First Counselor, and Frederick G. Williams, Second Counselor. The Prophet recorded the event in_ these words:.. I laid my hands on Brothers Sidney and Frederick, and ordained them to take part with me in holding the keys of this last kingdom, and to assist in the Presidency of the High Priesthood, as my Counselors; after which I exhorted the brethren to faithfulness and diligence in keeping the comfnandments of God (DHC I: 334). KEYS AND PRESIDENCY When the First Presidency meets as a quorum, the brethren act by reason of the keys of the kingdom. The Lord has revealed wherein this quorum's decisions would be valid—and also the 138 Council of the Twelve and the First Council of the Seventy— only by the unanimous voice of each member of the quorum. Then the virtues which should influence righteous decisions were also enumerated, such as meekness, patience, godliness, and so forth. (D&C 107:27-31.) When the President dies, the Quorum of the First Presidency no longer exists. This is what the Prophet Joseph Smith said in a meeting with the Twelve Apostles on January 26, 1836:... The Twelve are not subject to any other than the first Presidency... And where I am not, there is no First Presidency over the Twelve (DHC I11:374). From the foregoing, it is clear that the counselors act under the direction of the President, and their authority exists only as long as there is a President. Otherwise, they, if apostles in the Quorum of the Twelve, return to their places of seniority in that quorum. The Twelve Apostles, holding the keys of the Priesthood, become the active leaders of the Church, with the President of the Twelve being in charge of the Church and the other members of the Twelve as counselors until the Quorum of the First Presidency is organized. In all matters the President of the Church presides; his counselors assist him. In the following verse the Lord sets forth clearly the powers of the President. And this shall be your business and mission in all your lives, to preside in council, and set in order all the affairs of this church and kingdom (D&C 90: 16). At this time (March 1833) the First Presidency was to hold not only the keys of the Church but also the keys to the School of the Prophets. (D&C 90:7.) But in both of these administrations Joseph Smith was to preside. ([bid., verses 12-13.) THE PAST AND THE FUTURE Through the work of the First Presidency, preparation for giving the gospel of salvation to the inhabitants of Zion (Jackson County, Missouri) and to the nations was to go forth. Other nations were to hear the message through the missionaries who were to present the gospel to the Gentiles, first, and then to the Jews.- (D&C 90:8-9.) This instruction is in fulfillment of prophecy. With the complete fulfillment of this prophecy, yet future, the Lord's power will be demonstrated in the bringing about of a paradisiacal environment, which will characterize the millennial reign of the Savior. The gospel shall be taught in that day in the various languages. (Verses 10- 11.) OTHER DUTIES OF THE PROPHET At an earlier date the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon were engaged in the "translation" (revision) of the Bible. The Prophet's present responsibility was to work on this revision and then to attend to his other duties. Only some of the responsibilities of the Prophet are mentioned in this revelation to indicate ways in which he was to preside over the affairs of the Church. The President of the Church is to receive revelation and thus to make known the mysteries of the kingdom. (D&C 90:13-14.) Here "LESSON DEPARTMENT again is repeated the important principle that the Prophet is to receive revelation for the Church and to "set in order all the affairs of this church and kingdom" (verse 16). Significant among the Prophet's duties was this counsel, which would be applicable to all members of the Church:. And study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues, and people (Verse 15). Applicable to the Latter-day Saint is the admonition to beware of pride. To set one's house in order means to overcome the weaknesses which prevent close communion with the Holy Ghost. A part of this endeavor is to be clean in body and mind and to be industrious. (Verses 17-18.) TEMPORAL INSTRUCTIONS Verses 19 through 33 contain several instructions concerning temporal matters. For example, Frederick G. Williams was to have a home for his family; the debts of the Lord's storehouse were to be paid; and counsel was given on the number who should be accommodated in the home of Joseph Smith, Sr. In verse 25 the meaning of "let your families be small" pertains to those not of his immediate family who were receiving lodging in his home. Reference is made to Vienna Jacques, the only woman other than the Prophet's wife, Emma, who is mentioned by name in the Doctrine and Covenants. (Ibid., 90: 28-31.) She was to go to Jackson County, Missouri, and receive a stewardship from the bishop. 139 FEBRUARY 1966 IMPORTANCE OF COVENANTS An outstanding message in Section 90 is the following: Search diligently, pray always, and be believing, and all things shall work together for your good, if ye walk uprightly and remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another (Verse 24). The expression "the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another" has at least two meanings. First, when one enters the Church by baptism he covenants to keep the commandments of the Lord. The member of the Church who does not continue in this agreement no longer represents the Lord and, thus, his actions cast reflection upon all members who are endeavoring to demonstrate their true citizenship in the kingdom. Secondly, the agreement to work for the salvation of the living and the dead was also made in the preearth life. "Joseph Smith, by revelation, instructed the Saints and said that the Lord 'ordained and prepared' the means, 'before the foundation of the world, for the salvation of the dead who should die without a knowledge of the Gospel.' " (SmitH, JOSEPH FIELDING: The Way to Perfection, page 176.) ZION WARNED In the concluding verses of this revelation, a warning was given to Zion that if she did not repent, she would be chastened until she was clean. (D&C 90:34-37.) The literal fulfillment of this prophecy is history. The saints were literally driven from Missouri because of their transgressions. (Ibid., 101:1-8; 105:1-10.) 140 Many of the prophets, subsequent to the expulsion of the members of the Church from Missouri, have applied this warning to us of a later period. Among these was President Wilford Woodruff, who said: We have been favored, as no other people have, with wise counsels. Their extent and variety are immeasurable. They cover every department of human life. So far as we have observed them, prosperity and happiness have been the results. Whatever difficulties we may have to contend with to-day are due, if not wholly, at least in great part, to our disregard of them (An Epistle of the Council of the Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Semi-annual Conference, October 10, 1887, page 9). SECTION 91 While the Prophet was revising the scriptures, he inquired of the Lord concerning the Apocrypha of the Old Testament. These books, being of uncertain origin, were once a part of the Protestant Bible, and they continue to be in the Douay version (Catholic). Section 91 informs us that although the books in the main were translated correctly there were many additions by the hands of men. It was unnecessary for the Apocrypha to be revised, the Prophet was advised, but by the Spirit the reader could distinguish between the truth and the spurious. SECTION 92 This revelation is a commandment that Frederick G. Williams be received as a'member of the United Order. The expression "you shall be a lively member" is a first principle with Latterday Saints. They know that the active member receives the manifold blessings of participation, one of which is to know that a commandment is being lived. (D&C 42:40.) QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What are the keys of the Priesthood? Who, today, holds these keys? 2. What provision has the Lord LESSON DEPARTMENT made for the continuation of the keys of the Priesthood although the President of the Church dies? 3. Discuss: "Remember the covenant wherewith ye have covenanted one with another." 4. What warning did the Lord give in Section 90 that is applicable to us today? 5. What value do you think Sections 91 and 92 are to you? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson Message 72 — "He that Seeketh Me Early Shall Find Me, and Shall Not Be Forsaken" (D&C 88:83) For First Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To stress the importance of seeking and finding the @ Both King David and his son Solomon realized the wisdom of seeking and finding the Lord early in their lives. David, the psalmist, sang, '"O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee" (Psalms 63:1). Solomon records, "T [the Lord] love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me" (Proverbs 8:17). David, who became one of the greatest of all Israel's_ kings, sought the Lord while he was very young and thus became a chosen vessel. When the great prophet Samuel, who also had sought and found the Lord early, was searching for a future king to take Saul's place, he came to Lord as early as possible in our lives. Bethlehem. By commandment of the Lord he sought one of Jesse's seven sons. Jesse, the proud father, brought his sons before Samuel and thought surely the Lord would choose his eldest. "But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature... For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart" (I Samuel 16:7). The Lord had chosen David because he had sought him early while still only a boy and his heart was fully in tune with the Lord's spirit. 141 FEBRUARY 1966 When Solomon, as a_ very -young man, was selected to succeed his father David as the king of Israel, he, too, had sought and found the Lord early in his life: "Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father" (I King 3:3). In response to the Lord's call, Solomon said, "And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my Father: and I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in" (I Kings 3:7). Solomon then petitioned the Lord that he be given an understanding heart so that he would be wise in judging and guiding his people. It is a significant fact that so many of the great leaders in the Lord's work have sought and found the Savior early in their lives. Jesus himself was about his Father's business when he was only twelve. The Prophet Joseph Smith opened the door for the restoration of the gospel and ushered in the dispensation of the fulness of times when he was only fourteen. Why is it that the Lord admonishes us to seek him early? Surely one reason is that in our youth our minds and spirits are more malleable and_ teachable. At an early age our minds are not cluttered with misinformation which builds doubt and scepticism. Obviously another reason is that the earlier we seek and find the Lord the longer we will have to grow and develop under the influence of his spirit. Certainly the presence of the Lord's spirit is a great blessing and we should seek to enjoy it as early as possible. We must not procrastinate. For as the prophet Amulek declared, "I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance" (Alma 34:33). Also, through his modern Prophet, the Lord has declared "behold, I come quickly... And they who have sought me early shall find rest to their souls" (D&C 54:10). The important conclusion we must draw from this instruction from our Father in heaven is that we must seek the Lord earnestly and diligently if we expect to find him. Under his divine plan of personal free agency, he will not force himself upon us. He will come to us only if we sincerely and wholeheartedly seek him. IN A SECRET POOL Lael W. Hill Having lost much, The heart learns cherishing Of small treasure..~. As, after the great green Tumult of the tide, Edge of shore left lonely Holds in-a secret pool Tag-ends of seaweed And broken little shells. 142 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Cleanliness Is Next to Godliness; (A Continuation) For Second Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To discuss and demonstrate various cleaning techniques and procedures and to show the value of efficient cleaning INTRODUCTION A clean orderly home lifts the heart and spirit. The scriptures speak of a house which is "swept and garnished," and Oliver Goldsmith, English poet, writes fondly of "his lov'd partner" and the "cleanly board." Latter-day Saint women have long been known for their thrift and industry in caring for their homes. "It will last longer if it's clean," echoes their feelings as they strive to protect and beautify the home and its furnishings. Decisions pertaining to cleaning equipment and supplies and specific cleaning _ must be made constanty. DOES EASY DO IT? The housewife is often confronted with an amazing and confusing array of cleaning equipment and supplies. These aids may be helpful, but sometimes they represent a poor investment, and over a period of equipment and supplies. Time do not prove to be the easiest and most efficient, after all. Most home equipment specialists agree that other than a good vacuum cleaner, equipped with attachments for dusting and dry soil removal and "getting into" difficult spots, cleaning equipment and supplies should represent a nominal investment. To Discuss: 1. What questions might you ask yourself to determine whether purchase. Of new cleaning equipment and supplies is justifiable? Note to leaders: Try to elicit the following question responses from the class—How often will I use it? Can I use it for more than one cleaning job? Will it save more time than another article which I already own? Will it be easy to use or operate, to carry, and to store? Will it eliminate heavy work such as stooping, bending, lifting, and stretching? In terms of the saving of time and effort is the cost reasonable? 2. How would you advise a young couple relative to the cleaning equipment and supplies which they should buy in setting up housekeeping in a 143 FEBRUARY 1966 small apartment in your locality? These might be listed quickly on the chalkboard under "Item" and "Why Chosen." It might be pointed out by the leader that rebuilt vacuum cleaners, if purchased from a_ reputable dealer, are much less expensive than new ones and are quite satisfactory. (A re-built machine is constructed of good used parts.) TRICKS OF THE TRADE 1. Are you a water enthusiast? Too much water, used time after time, for washing floors can be damaging to wood and other substances. 2. Use abrasive scouring pads sparingly and only when absolutely necessary on surfaces and floors, as they tend to destroy finishes. 3. A snowy bright dishcloth (in most cases it is a cloth, not a rag) can give you a lift as you work about the kitchen. If your dishcloth gets dingy between washings, soak it in a small amount of water to which a little chlorine bleach has been added (according to directions). The sink is ideal for this; both cloth and sink will be brightened. Rinse well. 4. A heavy coat of furniture wax (it is actually composed of several thin layers) will prove to be tender, loving care for furniture surfaces. It will help the wood resist spots, stains, and scratches. Tables of all kinds, especially those used for dining, are protected in this manner. A little additional wax and "elbow grease" will remove old layers of wax. Always polish funiture with the grain of the wood. There are a few new wood finishes, however, which should not be waxed. Your furniture dealer will direct you. 5. Add two or three tablespoons of vinegar to a bucket of water in cleaning windows. It will clean efficiently and make them shine. Use this same solution on linoleum floors between soap washings. It will keep wax removal to a minimum. Many housewives like to polish windows with crumpled newspaper, or a chamois may be used for the complete operation, rather than a cloth. 6. Remove scratches from dark furniture by dyeing with iodine or a commercial preparation. For lighter woods apply the cut surface of a wal- 144 nut or a Brazil nut, or use a commercial scratch remover "stick." Mineral oil will help to conceal scratches on natural woods. 7. A mild, simple cleaning agent for general cleaning consists of soap jelly made by dissolving one cup of mild soap flakes, soap shavings, or detergent in one quart of boiling water. Pour into a wide-mouthed container and when congealed, use for various cleaning needs. Many modern women still prefer using their own homemade soap for both cleaning and laundry purposes. 8. A very effective cleaning solution for medium and dark colored natural wood finishes is one quart of hot water, three tablespoons of boiled linseed oil (available at paint and hardware stores), and one tablespoon of turpentine. Apply sparingly with a cloth, keeping moisture away from glued joints, until soil is removed. Polish with a clean, dry, soft cloth. 9. To remove grease spots from wallpaper use dry cleaning fluid sparingly (use the non-flammable cleaner.) If spots do not respond, apply French chalk or dry magnesia (available at drug stores) mixed with the dry cleaning fluid. Use a minimum of the fluid, keeping mixture just moist enough to adhere to the wall. Allow to dry and brush off. More than one application may be necessary. Experiment in an inconspicuous place first to see if paper will spot from the cleaning fluid. This method is usually very effective. 10. Sponges have many uses in cleaning. They are easy to handle, leave no lint, and can be squeezed dry with one hand. The newer cellulose sponges are less expensive than the natural ones. 11. Commercially treated cloths for quick touch-up metal polishing are great time savers. 12. One-half cup of ground glue added to a gallon of hot water will clean lightly soiled natural finished woodwork without harming the finish. It is especially fine for knotty pine and other natural finishes. The solution comes off with the next washing. To Discuss: Case Study: Mr. And Mrs. Allen are a retired couple. Their average- sized home is the happy gathering place for their married children and grandchildren, and bears the stamp of being truly "lived in." How would you solve Mrs. Allen's cleaning problems, giving the cleaning product to be used, the equipment, if any, and the method: 1. Several small food and grease spots on the off-white, plain textured wallpaper in the living room (may have been soiled at a recent family buffet supper). The paper bears the label "washable," which means very limited use of moisture. 2. All-over soil on the floral patterned, cotton tapestry-covered lounge chair in living room. 3. Scratches and some removal of finish from legs and rungs of dining chairs. 4. Black marks from shoes on the asphalt tile in the combination dining and family room. 5. An accumulation of hard water marks on the outside of the kitchen bay window, caused by the spray from the garden hose. SUMMARY Homemaking and housekeeping constitute the biggest business in the world today. Try the new, but hold fast to the old if it serves your purpose. Find the very best way of cleaning everything in your home. When you LESSON DEPARTMENT have problems, consult those people whose specialty it is to help you—the home economics departments of your local high school or university, government bulletins, dealers in home furnishings, the press, and, of course, the many delightful books and homemaking magazines. Housekeeping is truly everybody's business. To Do and Think About: 1. As part of the activities for the work meeting, a committee might demonstrate all or part of the following: (It might be well to use both commercial and homemade cleaning products) A. Cleaning and _ polishing of various metals such as aluminum, silver, brass, copper, etc. B. Shampooing of a small throw rug—it might be well to show a rug which has previously been shampooed by the same method and is now dry. C. Cleaning, removal of scratches, and polishing of a piece of furniture in Relief Society room, or a small piece of furniture brought from home. Two or more furniture finishes and/or colors in furniture might be used. D. The cleaning of any other items which it is felt would be beneficial to the class. SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 5 (Lesson 17 in Series) — Two Worlds As One For Third Meeting, May 1966 For the Southern Hemisphere, July 1966 Objective: To point out the need and the benefits of sharing one's world in the bettering of human relationships. LESSON 4 FOLLOW-UP previous month; namely, writing personal history or obtaining other material for making a Book Discuss, briefly, progress made on Home-Doing suggestions of 145 FEBRUARY 1966 of Remembrance which will meet suggested requirements. INTRODUCTION Although most marriage partners in our culture normally begin their marriage loving each other, something happens to an increasing number of these marriages which causes the husbandwife relationship to deteriorate. Too often the results are separation or divorce. Far too often the early dream of togetherness results in a situation in which each member of the partnership seems to be living in a separate world. This lesson discusses how natural differences in the roles of man and of woman tend to create two distinct worlds, and offers some suggestions for making these mold into a composite world of. Mutual satisfaction. DIVERGENT INTERESTS At the time of marriage, personal aspirations and divergent interests, often, may be completely set aside in the prospect of a joyous life, lived together and for each other. The marriage partners, moreover, may be unaware of the cultural pattern in our society which tends to separate a couple—as the independent roles of wife and of husband become established, most of their waking hours are spent in spheres of widely divergent interest. The husband's activities focus upon making a living for the family. Only occasionally do his activities or employment take place within the home. Often the work may require hours of daily commuting, or it may take him 146 to distant areas prolonging the period of separation from his wife and family. The woman's activities center in the home. Within her domestic world, she is concerned with the details of homemaking and of child rearing. She is expected to make a good home, attending to all phases of housekeeping and homemaking. Thus, two independent worlds develop wherein each marriage partner often plays a role quite independent of the other. The foregoing division of responsibility has been general throughout the centuries. Today, however, women in many countries also may be employed outside their homes. Individual circumstances may motivate a woman to share the financial responsibility of the family. 1. A young married woman may need to work temporarily in order that her husband may complete his college education. 2. Physical disability of the husband may require a woman to work for an indefinite period. In such case, the husband often may assume some of the household duties. 3. A woman whose children are married, may assume financially remunerative civic or industrial positions in order to occupy her spare time. Mention other circumstances. CLASS ACTIVITY With this overlapping of the traditional roles of husband and wife — 1. What may bring the couple into closer relationship? 2. What may tend to separate them? 3. What is the importance of the ability of the individuals involved to adjust to the situation? Do you think the following steps that a couple may realistically take, in our society, will help their companionship grow closer rather than apart? 1. Both husband and wife should become aware of the forces that tend to separate them. 2. They should plan and_ take positive steps to offset these forces. FORCES THAT SEPARATE Problem Illustration No. 1 Grievances such as the following are not uncommon: Wife: My husband is so wrapped up in his business affairs that I feel alone, and completely left out of his world. He never tells me anything about his work. When I tell him how I feel about this, he says it's hard enough to work through the day and he doesn't want to relive it all at night. Were you the wife of this hus- | band, what might you do to help him sense your desire to be a part of his "making a living world"? Suggestions: 1. You might show your interest in his work by asking questions at more appropriate times. 2. You might offer to entertain some of his associates. 3. You might tell him how proud you are that he is so competent in his field of activity, and that you would like to know more about how he accomplishes so much. 4. You might express your need for his help in household budgeting. Problem Illustration No. 2 Wife: When we were married, my husband and I both felt that we had many interests in. Common. We took occasional hiking trips into the hills, LESSON DEPARTMENT danced, went to the movies (cinema) and to the symphony. We even printed our own kodak pictures. Life has become more complicated with several children, and we feel that we cannot now afford some of these enjoyments. In fact, all my husband wants to do when he comes home from work is to eat his dinner, read the paper, perhaps watch TV, and go to bed. We never have any fun together. I have been at home all day, settling children's petty quarrels, doing housework, and I need some diyersion—the lift that a change of scene would give. Obviously, the needs of this husband for relaxation and his wife's need for diversion are real, although completely opposite. 1.. Can these opposite needs be met satisfactorily? 2. How can this wife help her husband to see that both needs are reasonable and can be met with satisfaction to each? Suggestions: 1. Express more sympathetic understanding of his need for relaxation, and appreciation for his desire to be at home. 2. Suggest that perhaps they could plan for and spend one evening out together each week, which would meet her need for some diversion outside the home. FOR TWO ONLY All couples deserve and should reserve for themselves some little time for private discussions of their personal goals. This can be a most rewarding experience and should produce tangible benefits. Comment of a wife who motivates such private discussions follows: Wife: Now that I know Bob's secret dream and aspirations, I am more sympathetic with his varying moods. I try to ease tensions within the home when I sense. That he is 147 FEBRUARY 1966 worried or deeply concerned about his work. Innumerable men have profited from sharing their objectives and short-range plans with their wives by receiving genuine cOoperation. Give concrete examples. FRIEND TO FRIEND The willingness to share one's world has meaning in relationships other than that of husband and wife. One meaning of its present use is to possess or enjoy in common. This implies that all who are involved in the sharing shall receive some degree of satisfaction—that which is shared need not be limited to material possessions, but may include information, confidences, aspirations, etc. Note the following comments: Friend A: Agnes R— is a very dear but lonely person. She is not an intimate friend, but often I bring her a gift from my travels to assure her she has my interest and affection. Recently she came to visit me but, seeing that I was preparing to leave for a social appointment, she said she would come at another time. She seemed to be in a state of anxiety, although she did not say so. Shortly afterwards she moved to another town and I have recently learned that she is ill as a result of personal misfortune. Questions: 1. If my appointment easily could have been postponed, should I have offered to do so? 2. If it were necessary that I keep the appointment, should I have attempted to arrange for a definite return visit? 3. How much more valuable would have been the gift of myself—my understanding in sharing her world of anxiety—than purchased gifts ] have given her. 148 The gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms feeds three,— Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me" (LOWELL, JAMES RUSSELL: The Vision of Sir Launfal). "The only gift is a portion of thyself" (EMERSON, RALPH WALDO). Friend B: I had always felt that Claire M--- was a person of undeveloped, even undiscovered ability. Once when I was engaged in an interesting handicraft project I decided to invite her to my home. She replied that she had plenty of time but no talent for doing such things. As she watched each detail of the creative process, I saw her eyes light with interest. She wanted to try doing it also. Her skill with a brush was promising us sensed that a field of new interest and accomplishment lay before her. Claire is now an_ expert painter, especially adept at restoring timedamaged designs on antique trays to their original beauty. How rewarding to have a casual friendship enriched by this shared interest. How grateful we both are that I made the effort to share my world of creativity with her! Give other examples from your own experience. THE MORE TIME YEARS While many women find their middle and later years as filled with interesting activity as were the earlier periods of their lives, there are millions of women for whom this is not so. Often they may find that when the children are married or away at college, and their own household duties greatly diminished, they have many hours for optional use. They may wonder, for the first time in their lives, what to do with their time. These hours can valuable to the woman become inwho and imaginative. Each of - knows how to use them constructively. Self-appraisal by a Latterday Saint woman may reveal: 1. Inherent talents, neglected during the years of child rearing, schoolteaching, or other professional employment. 2. The — opportunity neglected) to engage genealogical work. 3. The need to enrich the relationships of friend to friend, neighbor to neighbor, or wife to husband. 4. The opportunity to give increased Church service. (previously actively in Case Studies of the "Empty Nest" Years Woman #1: When our last child "fluttered" from the nest, I began somehow to feel less needed, less useful. Looking around for activities to fill this particular void, I soon discovered that I stood upon the threshold of a wonderfully enriching world. I decided to do two things: 1. Bring more of the outside world into my home and my own thinking by reading what I had never before had time to read. (What would you choose to read?) 2. Enrich my world by sharing it with my neighbors and fartheraway friends. (How might this be done?) Woman #2: With no children to monopolize mealtime conversation, my husband and I suddenly realized how many of our responses revolved around our children's lives and interests. We sat at the table for several mornings in almost strained silence— like familiar strangers. "What will you be doing at work today?" I finally asked. "Same things as yesterday," he replied drably.; This was hardly enlightening, since I did not know what he did yesterday. "How about you?" he asked. "Same thing as_ yesterday, grocery shopping," I replied. What an enthusiastic way to greet a new day! Surely an undernourished relationship needed to be strengthened and enriched. Plus LESSON DEPARTMENT I knew that many couples recognize the value of shared hobbies in keeping their relationship progressively satisfying. That evening I listed" them thus: gardening, home decorating, golfing, wood refinishing, handicrafts, fishing, television viewing, music, and painting. Some of these were readily ruled out as unsuitable for us. Some were interests of earlier years and might be pleasantly reactivated. We are not artists, we are not musicians, we are not expert craftsmen, but we are molding a world of appreciation for these arts by seeing, listening, and working together. Woman #3: I know that love is the strongest of all motivating agents and that where a marriage is_ solidly based, the middle years may become a rich flowering of the marital relationship. I have begun to show my husband I am interested in his world, and I now compliment him for virtues which I have taken for granted for years. As a result, we now share more than the same salary, more than the same house—we are sharing two distinct, but interesting worlds. Woman #4: Tom is too practical for poetry, I have often said. Just too practical. He doesn't really dislike it, I suppose. He is just indifferent to it. One day, a few months ago, I camé home from Relief Society brimming with enthusiasm for The Ancient Mariner, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, which we had discussed in meeting. I introduced Tom to the moral aspects of the poem, even read a few stanzas, the ones I like best. That was the beginning of a shared interest. Last night he brought me a gift. (No, it was not my birthday!) Just a surprise gift. I opened the parcel breathlessly. It was, of all surprises, a book of poems. Upon the flyleaf he had copied these famous lines from Robert Browning: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in his hand Who saith, 'A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" 149 FEBRUARY 1966 Think what I would have missed, had I not invited him into my world! SUMMARY Since there are many forces in our society which may tend to separate, unless couples consciously or by special temperament or intuition, take steps to safeguard and preserve their interest in and affection for each other, their respective roles may tend to move them apart. This tendency to grow apart, however, can be overcome. Attention to small but important factors often is all that is necessary. Aside from the binding force of religion and of children, changing one's attitude and actions, even in small ways, may work the miracle. The teenage son who resents certain tasks because he doesn't get thanked for doing what his mother says he should naturally do, may become the husband who doesn't like to be taken for granted; who would appreciate being thanked for what he considers are special favors, however small they may be. He deserves such thanks. "Thank you," "Please," "I do appreciate," "I'm sorry," and "I love you," which are the magic words of childhood do not lose their potency by overuse or through the years. They remain the ever magic key to happy adult relationships. Latter-day Saints truly are blessed in their knowledge that the union of husband and wife may be eternal and they should make every effort to minimize the temporal forces that tend to separate. With this concept ever in mind, they will realize that the roles of husband and of wife really need not be separate, for they are interdependent, each complementing the other. They will know that gospel living is the great factor which can effectively mold and maintain their two worlds as one. FOR DISCUSSION The following questions, in addition to those which arise in the class discussion: 1. Excluding religion, what one factor do you consider most important in maintaining: a. A happy marriage relationship? B. A happy friend-to-friend relationship? FOR HOME DOING 1. Initiate one activity which may become a mutual interest for you and your husband; for you and a neighbor friend. 2. Invite, in some subtle way, husband or friend to share in some present interest of your world. Note results. 3. Enlarge 'your own world by reading or listening to facts about your husband's or a friend's special interest. PETITION Dear Lord, bless me that I may make this portion of eternity beautiful and happy to those I love and for those whose lives touch mine. 150 —Patricia Sykes LITERATURE — The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 15—-Facing Death—Part Il (Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 443-444 and 448-472) For Fourth Meeting, May 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for October 1966 Objective: To help us view death with confident @ The lesson for this month covers five short poems and one longer poem, plus excerpts from four other poems—all concerned with the subject of death. As Latter-day Saints we understand that there are two deaths: physical death, which is the temporary separation at the close of mortality of the spirit from the body; and spiritual death. We also understand that all people, however righteous or sinful, will, through the resurrection of Christ, triump over physical death to a reuniting of the spirit and the body at the time of resurrection. Triumph over spiritual death through the atonement of Christ is also available to all people, but only those who repent of their sins and obediently live the laws and ordinances of the gospel will fully overcome spiritual death and live in eternal exaltation in the celestial kingdom. In earlier lessons we have seen how literature explores the problem of sin and triumphs over sin. This lesson is concerned, more affirmation rather than with dread. Particularly, with physical death and the assistance that literature can give in cultivating healthy attitudes towards it. ATTITUDES IN DEATH Probably the most solemn experience shared by all humanity is the inescapable fact of death —which comes to every mortal being. How we as human beings act and react in the face of death is and has always been one of the principal concerns of literature. Even more than love, death has been the central focus of literally thousands of novels, dramas, stories, and poems. In their views on death, writers tend to reflect the variant attitudes of people as a whole. Sometimes they fear it as mysterious and unknown, or look forward to it as a step toward eternal progression. Sometimes they dread it as a condition or suffering in consequence of mortal sin, or anticipate it as a place of bliss after mortal suffering. Some are 151 FEBRUARY 1966 merely curious about it, or defiant of it, or resigned to it. Others treat it tenderly and some brutally. Still others speak of it optimistically or pessimistically, sometimes with sad beauty, and sometimes with grotesque ugliness. Theologically, a writer may either look on death as the end of existence, or he may look on it as a doorway to continued life. On pages 448-452 of Out of the Best Books are printed excerpts from four poems by James Thomson, Edward Fitzgerald, A. C. Swinburne, and Robinson Jeffers which give extremely negative and pessimistic views on death, ranging from hedonism (the doctrine that pleasure is the highest good), to nihilism (total disbelief in religion or in established laws). The reason these are included in the text is that the beauty and truth of the affirmative poems with which this lesson is primarily concerned are heightened by the powerful contrast of the negative poems. AFFIRMATIVE VIEWS ON DEATH For a full printing and discussion of the six poems developing attitudes fundamentally harmonious with the gospel, the reader will need to-see pages 453-472 of Out of the Best Books. Space here will permit only briefer treatment, but still sufficient to feel the basic faith of these poets. First let us turn to Sonnet 146 by William Shakespeare (1564-1616): Poor soul, the center of my sinful earth, Rebuke these rebel powers that thee array! Why dost thou pine within and suffer dearth, 152 Painting thy outward walls so costly gay? » Why so large cost, having so short a lease, Dost thou upon thy fading mansion spend? Shall worms, inheritors of this excess, Eat up thy charge? Is this thy body's end? Then, soul, live thou upon thy servant's loss, And let that pine to aggravate thy store; Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross:: Within be fed, without be rich no more. So shalt thou feed on Death that feeds on men, And Death once dead, there's no more dying then. This poem is not difficult as soon as we realize that the word "soul" refers to what we normally call the spirit, and that the "sinful earth" is the physical body, which in line 9 is also referred to as the "servant" of the soul. Shakespeare, in vivid, eloquent language is appealing for us to stop wasting so much time, money, and concern on the "fading mansion"' of our body; rather we should cultivate the growth of the spirit within. For surely a tenant would be foolish to spend a fortune on a _ rented mansion with only a short-term lease. Therefore, Shakespeare concludes, "'Within be fed, without be rich no more." This central idea of the poem is summarized in the beautiful closing couplet asserting that men should "feed on Death, that feeds on men"— that is, look through death to the life beyond, for once death is experienced, men will live immortally. JOHN DONNE'S SONNET ON DEATH The sonnet "Death Be Not Proud" by John Donne (1571- 1631) is similar in both manner and language to Shakespeare's sonnet: Death, be not proud, though some have called thee Mighty and dreadful, for thou art not so; For those whom thou think'st thou; dost overthrow Die not, poor Death; nor yet canst thou kill me. Form rest and sleep, which but thy pictures be, Much pleasure; then from thee much more must flow; And soonest our best men with thee do go— Rest of their bones and souls' delivery! Thou art slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men, And dost with poison, war, and sickness dwell; And poppy or charms can make us sleep as well And better than thy stroke. Why swell'st thou then? One short sleep past, eternally, And Death shall be no more: Death, thou shalt die! We wake Death is here personified as proud and arrogant in its seeming triumph over life, but "Be not so" says the poet. "Those whom you think you conquer do not really die. Your victory is temporary and incomplete. You cannot really kill men; for after a short sleep in the grave, we wake eternally. Then death is no more. Indeed, death itself shall die!" A MODERN POET'S VIEW Shakespeare's and Donne's sonnets were written centuries ago, but modern poets have also lifted their voices in exultation that life ultimately triumphs over death rather than vice versa. One of the strongest modern voices has been that of the great Welsh poet Dylan Thomas (1914-1953), LESSON DEPARTMENT whose powerful "And Death Shall Have No Dominion" is printed on page 457 of the text. In the poem, Thomas vigorously declares the power of life over the power of death. Though the body be lost in the depths of the sea or smashed into fragments or otherwise totally destroyed, yet that which is vital and eternal shall live on—''And death shall have no dominion." Though even the mind, broken by disease or experience, may go mad, yet it shall be restored to its full faculties—'And death shall have no dominion." Moreover, not only life, but also the ideals we live by, are eternal: lovers may be untrue, men may lose their faith, and evil may dominate a human personality; but still Love and Faith and Goodness shall live on—''And death shall have no dominion." ROBERT BROWNING AFFIRMS IMMORTALITY This month's lesson also covers two poems, '"Prospice" and "Rabbi Ben Ezra," by Robert Browning (1812-1889), whose vigorous affirmation of life's values here and hereafter we have already seen at various times earlier in these lessons during the past two years. "Prospice'" is sufficiently brief that it can be printed in full here: Fear death?—to feel the fog in my throat, The mist in my face, When the snows begin, and the blasts denote I am nearing the place, The power of the night, the press of the storm, The post of the foe; Where he stands, the Arch Fear in a visible form, Yet the strong man must go. 153 FEBRUARY 1966 For the journey is done and the summit attained, And the barriers fall, Though a battle's to fight ere the guerdon be gained, The reward of it all. I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more, The best and the last! I would hate that death bandaged my eyes, and forbore, And bade me creep past. No! Let me taste the whole of it, fare like my peers, The heroes of old, Bear the brunt, in a minute pay glad life's arrears Of pain, darkness, and cold. For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave, The black minute's at end, And the elements' rage, the fiendvoices that rave, Shall dwindle, shall blend, Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain, Then a light, then thy breast, O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, And with God be the rest! This little poem, whose title means "look forward," is Browning's most direct expression of belief in immortality. Two ideas form the poem. One is simply a courageous attitude towards the experience of death: he has faced all life's experiences with vigor, and he will not now shrink from this final experience. The other idea, more philosophical, is the climax that ends the poem, as with great confidence, Browning anticipates the time when he will reach through death to reunite with his beloved wife ("O thou soul of my soul'), who had recently died. In order fully to understand and appreciate this poem, we need to know that it grows out of the extraordinarily beautiful love, courtship, and marriage of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett. After fifteen 154 years of rich marriage, Mrs. Browning died in Italy in 1861, and sometime thereafter Browning wrote "Prospice," expressing his confidence that their love is eternal. (For fuller comments on this beautiful love and marriage, see page 460 of the text.) Although it is too long to be printed in this Magazine, "Rabbi Ben Ezra" might well serve as the center of discussion for this month's lesson because it is both artistically and _ philosophically the richest of the six poems covyered. The robust vigor of its tone begins with its very first stanza: Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in His hand Who saith, "A whole I planned; Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!" Following this assertion that God formed man's life as a united whole, youth and age each being integral halves, Browning then moves, starting with stanza 3, to a rejoicing that man is not a mere animal living in the selfish needs of the flesh. Instead, we are allied to God, who provides the example of unselfishness for us. "A spark disturbs our clod" —the spark of the divine spirit that inhabits the mortal body and separates man from the animals. Therefore, because of our immortal spirits that need to grow through the challenges of earthly experience, we should "welcome each rebuff' and "sting" and "pain" that are steps along the road of endless progression. We should accept life's challenge to "strive," "learn," "dare." Man is a mere brute unless the spirit 'within his body aspires to subdue and live above the desires of the animal flesh. But man does aspire. This is why he is man, and all according to the "whole design" of the Creator. "Perfect I call the plan," says Browning in stanza 10. And even as youth _and age are two halves of mortal life, so body and spirit are two halves of man's total essence, each necessary to the other. (Stanzas 11 and 12.) Stanza 13 is a key passage in the poem, for here Browning states that, matured by life's experiences, man is "a god, though in the germ'—one of the most explicit statements in all literature harmonizing with the Latter-day Saint doctrine that men and women have the potential to become gods and goddesses. Note also Browning's rejection of the "scientific" theory of evolution that man is merely a "developed brute." Man has a divine spirit, says Browning, setting him forever apart from all other forms of life on earth. Beginning in stanza 14, Browning makes another analogy: Even as youth and age are halves of the whole of mortal life, and body and spirit are halves of the whole of man's essence, so mortal life and life after death are related parts of continuous existence— and Browning says he is ready to start on his ''adventure brave and new' of life beyond death. The past and the present are both preparations for the future, and all are united in a perfect plan. Therefore, do not be afraid to face death, he says in stanza 19; for even as seeking should characterize youth, so knowledge should characterize age. And this can be "knowledge absolute" he Says in stanza 20, reaffirming his LESSON DEPARTMENT position in stanza 21 when he adds, "Let age speak the truth and give us peace at last." I realize, Browning says in stanza 22, that for every man who believes as I do about life and death and immortality, there may be ten who believe otherwise. The way of the world is to be weak in faith and to argue (see stanza 26) that since life is fleeting and the future uncertain, we should seize the pleasures of today. In answer to this point of view, Browning makes one of his strongest statements in the poem: Fool! All that is, at all, Lasts ever, past recall; Earth changes, but thy soul and God stand sure. What entered into thee, That was, is, and shall be. (from Stanza 27) Man's mortal existence, Browning repeats in stanza 28, is simply part of God's perfect and immortal plan, a school wherein man's soul can be given direction and growth. Look up, therefore, not down (stanza 30), and trust in God's divine wisdom, following his plan that will shape men to perfection for the eternal life ahead. Surely this is one of the great short religious poems of the world, and especially so to Latter-day Saint readers because its views are so beautifully harmonious with truth. The poem can be read in full on pages 461-466 of Out of the Best Books and is also easily available in almost any other book containing some of Browning's poems. In it Browning does not give Latter-day Saint readers theological knowledge beyond that we already have. The gospel gives us the 355 FEBRUARY 1966 fulness of religious truth. Even so, it is reassuring to discover that one of the great poets of the world, in one of his major poems, expresses thoughts harmonizing with the truths of the scriptures. "We Are Seven"' The final poem in this month's lesson is '""We Are Seven" by William Wordsworth (1770-1850). Like the "Intimations of Immortality" ode, "We Are Seven" has an especial appeal to Latter-day Saint readers, because, although among all people there is a hopeful yearning that the family unit may endure beyond the grave, the: Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is apparently the only Christian church which officially teaches that the family unit may so endure. On this — theme, and on the scriptural idea that we can sometimes be led by children and learn wisdom out of their spontaneous, intuitive feelings, '""We Are Seven" is written (Text, page 471). Although this poem is fairly short, there is not space to print either the poem or a full discussion of it here. Literature leaders desiring to use it—and we assume many will, because the poem is very simple and lovely—will need to turn to pages 469-472 of Out of the Best Books. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion 1. In line 11 of his sonnet Shakespeare counsels us to "buy terms divine." In the light of the sonnet as a whole, what does this phrase mean? 2. The climax of Donne's sonnet is the statement, 'Death thou shalt die!" Explain the meaning of this. 3. Explain as fully as possible in Dylan Thomas' poem the meaning of the refrain 'Death shall have no dominion." 4. As evidenced by '"Prospice" and "Rabbi Ben Ezra," point out specific places in which Browning shows insight into religious truth regarding death and life after death.: 5. Is the little girl in "We Are Seven" intuitively wise or merely impulsive and stybborn? Explain. TO AN ELEVEN-YEAR-OLD Christie Lund Coles You yearn to go beyond this willowed time, Of lupin skies and twilights, dreaming-long; You yearn to hear the brightly clarion chime Of distant bells that peal, enticing, strong. You look into the future and you see A vision of the promise that your hope Shapes of the years ahead, unbounded, free, Quite unencumbered in their width and scope. Oh, do you not know, child, that herein lies The magic that we covet all our days? The cargo that no riches ever buys The memory of enchantment's golden ways? All of the wonder of these things are yours. Embrace this moment that both sings and soars. 156 Follow the Official Program - Avoid Confusion! Complete with the basic sheets and forms — all printed on rag bond paper — for your permanent Book of Remembrance records. Kit includes: Index Guides Personal History forms for Male and Female i Parents jer Ancestors fiw al % Pedigree Chart Q: Portrait Pedigree Chart Family Group Records (The official Church forms) Ruled sheets, plain sheets; heavy mounting sheets And more Plus attractive cover! Beautifully printed... Ideal for gifts! OVER 50 SHEETS (100 pages)!! AllGhis for @niyi $75 50 plus 10% _ postage This is the easy-to-use research method which uses the official Church Family Group Record form and follows the official genealogical program of the Church. (Research Work Book used by the Genealogical Society (we ING—in searching for your kindred dead, plus a supply of practical and proven forms to help save you time, effort, con- "This is the finest research help I've ever seen!" the way the Church goes. It is completely Vdgedien. Trips! =. Tions of the Church, even to using the __ Postage Teaching Kit To help teachers in the Work Shop classes and in the homes, more effectively emphasize the simple steps of the Work Book method of genealogical research. 4: Includes a flip-chart with large enough $62?" | - printing for even the larger classes,; plus twenty-five copies of the "Learning Reminder," the printed notes and comments on the points printed in the flip-chart. A Only $300 plus 10% postage ar Booksize for Home Teaching and small groups—only $1.50 plus 10% postage. S A S Plant Location: Richmond, Utah—on Highway 91 157 IN ONE HANDY WORK BOOK.... You have easy-to-follow directions to help you easily and happily GET GOfusion. This is no complicated system, because the LDS AIDS Work Book goes in accord with the standards and regulaLD new Family Group Record form now use it by permission). Thousands of people are saying, So easy for young people to use, too! And S handy to take along on onl $300 plus 10% Mailing Address: P. O. Box One, Smithfield, Utah FEBRUARY 1966 Need Help With Your Four Generation Program? FOURTH GENERATION THIRD SECOND FIRST ii Extensive Experience in American and Canadian Research — Former Member of the Research Staff of the L. D. S. Genealogical Society. Associated Researcher of the L. D. S. Genealogical Society — B. S. Degree in American History — Former B. Y. U. Education Week Instructor. ACCREDITED RESEARCH SERVICES CONWAY B. THREET 841 West 3600 South Bountiful, Utah 84010 Phone 295-6898 MEXICO January 21, 1966 26 days SPRINGTIME IN FLORIDA April HAWAII February 18, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways —-— ALASKA PAGEANT TOURS Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 485-2444 — 262-2337 158 DARK GLEN Shirley M. Howard The leaves are thick The branches low In this dark glen Where | must go. The path, if one Can call it so, Refuses grass Yet nettles grow. A foot can trip, A body fall To disappear In weeds grown tall. Some say In venturing a call The words will make No sound at all. At most they rise Where branch has thinned And blend as Whispers in the wind. Rather, in this World of dark, | think there waits A gleam, a spark, A thread of sun, A single ray Of gold to hold The light and say, "Here is the way, Here is my way." New Friend Ethel Jacobson There is something more aware In the air. The cedars wear a sheen Of deeper green, And lark song strikes the ear More blithe and clear. Horizons circle wide, With love inside, And life has a rich bouquet, For today Brought me this dividend: A new friend. THIS DAY WILL BRING SOME LOVELY THING Stella Hatch Life closes in and we take for granted the wonderful blessings that are ours. So try each morning when you awaken, to say, "This day will bring some lovely thing."' Just as surely as you do, life will bring it! You will see it and 'recognize its beauty. As you go on day after day, you'll find that you will be looking carefully for these bits of joy. For instance, as I came out of the chapel on Sunday, a tiny child grasped my knees. It was my grandson. I felt a thrill go through me because I love him so and he is so sweet. I gave a dear sister a ride. She had on a print dress that looked refreshing, and her conversation was about her gratefulness to the Lord that she was eighty-four years old, and in good health. It made me want to live long. I saw a baby begin to walk; grandpa giving candy to eager, little boys; saw cherries hanging in clusters and felt the warm sun on my face as I picked them. Most important, you must look in places where loveliness has a struggle to be: such as a home where disorder and quarreling abide. Where you go in to help and feel a calm peace invade the room and a friend inspired to do better. You help a young mother who can't get out often by tending her children, doing up the dishes and, perhaps, making a cake. This brings a warmth around the heart. Really, it isn't anything except giving of oneself, and this is always a lovely thing. BEAUTIFUL J iad a DURABLE Time for those who wish to go A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inStruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please Include postage according to table listed ' below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah | Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 3.. 60 Zone 7..........1.05. 65 Zone 8..........1.20 f Os = PESERETFREwS PRESS to temples Cardston and Idaho Falls June 17, 1966 k kK k Hawaiian Lei Day Tour April 23 - May 8 Northwest Tour June 25 - July 2 Hill Cumorah Tours July 1966 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 159 — =_— ——— Le Mrs. Ae E. Walker Mrs. Jane Clark Angus Banks s E Bancroft,! Daho - Mancos, Colorado 91 me fie Mrs. Mirinda Snow Frandsen Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Jensen Terou Hamilton, Montana Mrs. Amanda Hendricks Price Gridley, California Mrs. Mary Smith Fillmore, Utah 9) [ r Mrs. Carrie M. Freeman Maramec, Oklahoma Mrs. Caroline Ringle Steed Washington Terrace, Utah Mrs. Ammar Elizabeth Pickett Bott Burley, Idaho IDLENESS In beautiful White Pass in Mount Rainier National Park, we passed Kautz Flood area where, in a huge valley, the trees have all died because the roots were smothered and could not get air. With all the necessary water and plant food, they died even as gardens sometimes do, too. The flood-packed debris around them suffocated them. There was no one to work the soil. They stand as mute evidence of an important law of life: without the work of cultivation for plants, trees, and man, the rot of idleness sets in to destroy. Caroline Eyring Miner 160 Mrs. Elizabeth Emma Slade Carroll. Two New and Inspiring Books THE PARABLES OF THE KINGDOM by Melvin R. Brooks Those "stories with meaning" were never so beautifully explained or outlined as they are in this inspiring book. Each parable is taken and analyzed in depth by an author who is a recognized authority. $2.50 1 CURTAIN TIME USA ATA N Ambassadors of Inspiration by Jay M. Todd ule Twenty-five young Brigham Young University ay ne7098 students assigned by the State Department to ' tour Southeast Asia and the Middle East proved: to be among America's finest ambassadors of good will. This is their story. Warm, intimate, and exciting. $3.95 Nivienne raytd a FD 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA = = —— = SSS A SSS Sa money order............., | have an account, please charge.............. Amount §................. Name... 20... Ce ees Address.... 22.2... Ee ee City... 0... 0... State.......... Zip...... Residents of Utah, please add 342% sales tax. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax. RS. Feb. 66 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah "Catch me, Daddy...'' These familiar words express the trust of a child in his father. He jumps with the full confidence that you will be there to catch and care for him. This trust extends to his faith in your provision Loin BENEFICIAL LIFE for his future, too. You can best assure it with a Srsurance Beneficial Life plan to suit your needs and income. —— The Relief SOCISCTY Magazine Volume 53 Number 3 'oa We ae fe. A Oe Se nate Og ' = oo. 'ewes a, ae, Spe ert "ae "ee MARCH 1966 ' ' ee Katherine F. Larsen... Low hills, lovely with green, fresh green, and ever-recurring green, Merging into hills gentled under soft blue haze, Dreaming ancient dreams, as in an old country... How you rise and lead the jaded eye, soothing it, Out of the straight hot teeming streets and highways Hard and fast over the abiding countryside. And there, there in your soft hills folded, the old Strong trees preside, and hover protectingly over The nestling houses, the small homes, the rooftrees Harboring hearts and hopes... As ever.... Hearts and hopes—old, gentle words, forgotten, or Almost forgotten, as the byways that still wind upward Into the softened contours of the old hills....... Who now has time to wander, to wonder, to reach Downward to roots, back to the times and a time when Hills, homes, hearts, hopes were a balm... And love a word one could rest upon? The Cover: Tulip Time, Transparency by Camera Clix Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Folded Hills of the Wasatch, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: | Dick Scopes Illustrations: © Mary Scopes TOM The Magazine has been a great comfort to me while being on a Church Building Mission. | have been in Helsinki, Finland, for two years, and in Bergen, Norway, for a year and a half. When | was in Finland, | would take my Magazine with me to Relief Society and sit and read the lessons in English while the sisters were enjoying them in Finnish. The Magazine also helped me in preparing talks for Church. The little Haaga Branch in Helsinki, Finland, has one of the best organized Relief Societies that | have attended in the mission field. The group was small, but made of humble, loving sisters. But now they have a new chapel and a beautiful room and they are proud of it. | hope the sisters in Bergen will enjoy their new chapel and room when the building is finished. The sisters in Bergen are busy knitting Norwegian style sweaters for their building fund. They do beautiful work. Mildred Johanson Bergen, Norway | feel | must write and say thank you for the Relief Society Magazine which | sincerely appreciate and enjoy reading each month. | am always enraptured with the lovely pictures of trees, mountains, and lakes used as cover pictures, for { love all the things of nature that God has given for our enjoyment. | see his touch in everything, and, regardless of what man is doing, it will always be a _ beautiful world to me. Ella Palmer Westmead New South Wales Australia Our Magazine is one of so few that | keep. We don't have much room to keep things, but this is one | will keep. A woman gave me some of her Magazines, and these | keep with mine. How she could give away the Magazine is beyond me, with all the helps and spiritual, uplifting material in it. Mrs. Sherri Jonte San Pablo, California 162 ar aru Ser Just a word to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. | have used back issues, as well as each current issue, over and over again in the mission, for work projects, talk topics, and personal inspiration. Our Indian sisters love the Magazine, too. Many of them have expressed their appreciation, especially for the poetry and the lov color illustrations. The conference dress, ''Love, the Measuring Rod," Counselor Marianne C. Sharp (in t November 1965 issue) must have b written for my particular benefit. Estella L. Far Relief Society Supervi Northern Indian Missi Rapid City, South Da | agree with Mrs. Openshaw's comm (in the January issue of the Magazi about Dorothy Roberts' poem "Ye day's Gold."" It haunts me, too. Y ago, Dorothy, Margery S. Stewart, 1, and our three little daughters s a day together in an autumn can | can see the very gold-and-sh spot of which she speaks. And | thi her words were for all of us. I proud to have these talented a beautiful women among my friends. Enjoyed all the poetry written by contest winners in the January M zine. The photography in the M zine is exquisite. Christie Lund Provo, U For several years now my dear cousi Mrs. Vera Pettit of Layton, Utah, kindly been sending my family T Relief Society Magazine. As my h band and | prepare talks and less for Sunday services, with the child all taking part, we have on m occasions used messages and poe from the Magazine. The color pho graphs are wonderful. We have two missionaries call on us. They wonderful young men. Long may t Magazine send out its truths. Barbara Ki "n> Relief Society eee Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 164 Relief Society and Home Teaching Marion G. Romney 170 The Importance of the Family Home Evening in a Latter-day Saint Home Elna P. Haymond 178 Appropriate Music Materials Cleone R. Eccles 189 You Can Help, Too Emil Henderson- 191 The White Sands of New Mexico. Claire Noall 216 Visit of Queen Kapiolani to the Relief Society Jane Elizabeth Molen Fiction 172 The Search for Katie Third Prize Story Lael J. Littke 181 Little Ducks Can Swim Evelyn Fyeldsted 211 The Portrait Changes Diane Whitelock 220 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 3 Margery S. Stewart General Features 162 From Near and Far 186 Editorial: The Sustaining Power of Relief Society Marianne C. Sharp 188 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 226 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 240 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 190 Embroidery Adorns Her Quilts 196 A Present for Grandma Celia Luce 198 Divinity Easter Eggs 200 A Golden Harvest of Knitting 202 Blue and Yellow Springtime Table Florence C. Williams 203 Quilting—Old As Ancient Yesterday—New As Today Louise W. Madsen 218 My Priority List Winnifred C. Jardine Lessons for May 233 Work Meeting—Simplify the Job Hazel S. Cannon Poetry 161 "From Whence... My Strength" Katherine F. Larsen The Gospel, Iris W. Schow, 169; The Year the Yuccas Bloomed, Ethel Jacobson, 185; On Limitations of Mortality, Lael W. Hill, 189; Flowers of Tomorrow, Dorothy J. Roberts, 201; A Quilter, Caroll Orton, 210; Returning March, Elizabeth Cottam Walker, 217; On the Mountain, Melba S. Payne, 225; Growing Accustomed, Kathryn Kay, 232; My Mother's Country, Christie Lund Coles, 235; For a New Stepdaughter, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 236. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1965 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew -promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, 'authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. @I know this has been a long day for you, sisters, and, coming at the end of the session as it does, after this delightful presentation, what I have to say to you may be a bit dry. The subject I have in mind to discuss was suggested by the Relief Society Presidency. You might, therefore, have in mind an experience of a friend of mine who said that when he was a young man on the western frontier giving one of his first talks, he noticed in the far end of the hall a couple of restless cowboys who didn't seem to be very satisfied with his performance. At the conclusion of his remarks, they came up the aisle, one hand on their pistols, in the other their lariats. Taking note of his extreme nervousness, they said, "Young man, don't you worry. We know you did the best 164 Relief Society and Home Teaching Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of The Twelve [Address delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965.] you could. What we're looking for is the fellow who brought you here."' The subject I was asked to discuss is "Relief Society and Home Teaching." As background, let us keep in mind as we consider it, the fundamental truth that a knowledge of and conformance to the gospel of Jesus Christ are indispensable to a successful mortal life. Because it is so important that men be taught and encouraged to live the gospel, the Lord himself has set up a pattern by which this is to be done. Essential aspects of his pattern include five steps: 1. God's revealing the gospel to his prophets. 2. The prophets testifying thereof. 3. Teaching of children by parents. 4. Support of the Priesthood. 5. Assistance by the auxiliaries. This pattern has been followed from the beginning. God the Father in the Garden of Eden personally taught Adam and Eve. After they had been banished from his immediate presence, they still "heard the voice of the Lord from the way toward the Garden of Eden" (Moses 5:4). As a reward for Adam's obedience to the Lord's commandments, an angel was sent to teach him the gospel. Mormon refers to this pattern as an established practice. He says that God himself, and angels sent by him, declare "the words of Christ'? Unto "chosen vessels of the Lord" — prophets —... That they may bear testimony of him. And by so doing, the Lord God prepareth the way that the residue of men may have faith... That the Holy Ghost may have place in their hearts... And after this manner bringeth to pass. The Father, the covenants which he hath made unto the children of men (Moroni 7:31, 32). Having taught Adam, the Lord instructed him to teach his children "... I give unto you [he said] a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children..." (Moses 6:58). "And Adam and Eve... Made all things known unto their sons and their daughters" (Moses 5: 12). The scriptures indicate that like instruction to parents has been given in all dispensations. Speaking of Abraham, the Lord said: "... I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord..." (Gen. 18:19). "... Teach" the words of God "diligently unto thy children," said Moses to Israel, "talk of RELIEF SOCIETY AND HOME TEACHING them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up" (Deut. 6:7). The Book of Mormon is filled with references to such teachings. Nephi spoke of his parents as being "goodly" because they taught him "in all the learning of" his father. Enos judged his father to be a "Just man" because "he taught me in his language, and also in the nurture and admonition of 'the Lord—and blessed be the name of my God for it'? (Enos 1). King Mosiah instructed his people that if they believed they would teach their children "... To walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another" (Mos. 4:15). Other scriptures reveal the fact that God's teaching plan requires that his Priesthood and other Church organizations supplement parents' teaching. Both the Old and the New Testaments speak of Priesthood and auxiliary organizations. Like facilities and congregations were common among the Nephites. King Benjamin's great farewell address was delivered to an immense gathering. (Mosiah, Chapters 2-4.) When Jesus ministered among the Nephites, he spoke of their "synagogues, or... Places of worship" (3 Nephi 18:32), and said unto them "behold, ye shall meet together oft" (3 Nephi 18: 22). Mormon says they did meet "together oft both to pray and to hear the word of the Lord" (4 Nephi 1:12). 165 MARCH 1966 Moroni winds up the Nephite record on this matter by saying, And the church did meet together oft, to fast and to pray, and to speak one with another concerning the welfare of their souls. And they did meet together oft to partake of bread and wine, in remembrance of the Lord Jesus (Moroni 6:5-6). This ancient teaching pattern is still in force. As in the beginning, so in this dispensation, the Lord has revealed the gospel to chosen vessels by personal visitation, by the words of his own mouth, and by the ministering of angels. The prophets have borne testimony of the truth revealed. Many men have, by the power of the Holy Ghost, understood and accepted it. Again, parents have been directed to teach their children. In harmony with his ancient pattern, the Lord has, in this day, also, called his Church with its Priesthood and _ auxiliaries to supplement parents' teaching. As early as 1831 he inaugurated the sacrament meeting when he said, "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day" (D&C 59:9). We could trace through the organization of the Priesthood quorums, their functions and required meetings, as well as the various auxiliary organizations— Relief Society, Sunday School, Mutuals, and Primary, the Genealogical Society, Church schools, Project Temple, Firesides, and other teaching and training programs—but this is not the time or place. Suffice it to say that 166 pursuant to the foundation revelations and the continued inspiration of the Lord, there are now available to Latter-day Saints under Church supervision sufficient revealed knowledge, knowhow, and facilities to teach every member of the Church the gospel of Jesus Christ. Presently, the leadership of the Church is engaged in a major effort to correlate all Church teaching, both doctrine and activities, to the end that with balanced emphasis, and without undue repetition or omissions, every child, youth, and adult in the Church may, under the influence of the Holy Spirit, be taught in the home and in Church organizations the gospel of Jesus Christ. In this correlated program both the Priesthood and the women in Relief Society have a great role to play. To accomplish our objectives will require parents; Priesthood bearers; and quorum, auxiliary, school, and other organization leaders to learn their "duty, and to act in the office in which" they are "appointed, in all diligence' (D&C 107:99). All these organizations are represented on the Church Correlation Committee, which views them all together as a composite, home-centered Priesthood Teaching Program. In harmony with the revelations, the first and basic objective of Church Correlation was to place the Priesthood and the home in their proper place. To this purpose much time and effort have been devoted. A major portion of the Priesthood's_ responsibility is to be carried out through Home Teaching. The primary place of the home is being emphasized in the program for teaching the gospel in the home in the weekly Home Evening. In the Lord's teaching pattern the work assigned to the Relief Society ranks high in the service required of the Church through its auxiliary organizations. You, of course, know that the Relief Society is the only auxiliary organized by the Prophet Joseph. You also know that some of its main functions are: To manifest benevolence, irrespec- - tive of creed or nationality; To care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate; To minister where death reigns; To assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; To raise human life to its highest level; To elevate and enlarge the scope of woman's activities and conditions; To foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement; To develop faith; To save souls; To study and teach the gospel. You are aware, too, that the Relief Society organization is calculated to serve and bless every woman in the Church. In pursuit of this objective, we need to make some real improvement in two services: (1) In soliciting new membership enrollments and (2) In increasing attendance of members at Relief Society. Relief Society and the Home Teaching should cooperate and get these jobs done. To this end there is much that you can do. I feel certain that you are striving to make your meetings and other activities so interesting and worthwhile that those who attend once will desire to return and RELIEF SOCIETY AND HOME TEACHING make their attendance regular. Your Relief Society visiting teachers can, of course, encourage the members they visit to attend Relief Society, and all members can invite their personal friends to enroll and attend. Official Church enlistment service, however, is the divine assignment of the Priesthood. The Lord so designated it at the time the Church was organized. In the same revelation in which he advised the Prophet Joseph Smith the exact day on which to organize the Church, the Lord told him that the calling of Melchizedek Priesthood bearers is, among other things, to "watch over the church" (D&C 20:42), and that "The priest's duty is to... Visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties' (D&C 20: 46-47). "The teacher's duty is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them.... And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty" (D&C 20:53, 55). The foregoing assignments include getting women to Relief Society as well as getting Church members to Sacrament meetings, to the temple, Priesthood meetings and all other Priesthood and auxiliary functions. Priesthood Home Teaching is the Church's official program through which men of the Priesthood are, in part, to magnify their callings in the Priesthood as set out in the 20th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants. Home Teaching is not limited in its function to a particular area of Church activity, such as teaching 167 MARCH 1966 the gospel in the home, missionary service, genealogical, or Church Welfare work, Seminary, Institute, or specialized auxiliary assignments. Its obligation is, rather, to support all these programs and activities and to encourage, motivate, and inspire the membership of the Church to perfect their lives by availing themselves of the gospel teaching and training provided in all these activities, including the Relief Society. If you sisters can grasp this concept and keep it in mind, you can perform a great service in helping to get it over to your husbands. The duty to perform the service of a home teacher is inherent in the acceptance of ordination to the Melchizedek Priesthood, and to the office of priest and teacher in the Aaronic Priesthood. I cannot see how a Priesthood bearer can willfully refuse to do Home Teaching without violating the oath and covenant which belongeth to the Priesthood, and which every Melchizedek Priesthood bearer takes upon himself. Home Teaching is one of the services by which Priesthood bearers magnify their calling and qualify for the great promise that "... Whoso is faithful unto... Magnifying their calling, are sanctified by the Spirit unto the renewing of their bodies," and become members of "the church and kingdom, and the elect of God" (D&C 84:33-34). In the Home Teaching Program, under the supervision and direction of the bishop, a pair of Priesthood home teachers are assigned to each family. So far as help to Relief Society is concerned, they are, with an intimate knowledge of the total family 168 situation, in an official Priesthood position, to encourage, challenge, and inspire every prospective Relief Society member to enroll and every member to attend Relief Society. This they will do when properly motivated by their Priesthood leaders. Their Priesthood leaders will properly motivate them when they are properly instructed and challenged by the bishop. As Relief Society officers, your job — and it is indeed a very important one — is to keep the bishop up against his responsibility in this matter. If your enrollment or attendance has been falling off, or not increasing as it should, you will probably find you have not been doing this. Perhaps you have not known how to do it. Acting on this assumption, I will give you some suggestions. At least once a month the bishop is to hold a ward council © meeting at a suitable time and place. It should be held when all members of the council can attend, and adequate time should be allowed to transact the necessary business. Members of the council include: The three members of the bishopric, the Priesthood leaders who, under direction of the bishop, direct the home teachers— normally there are at least five of these Priesthood leaders—and executives of all ward auxiliary organizations, including, of course, and of first importance for these remarks, the president of the ward Relief Society. The Ward Relief Society president should have with her at this council meeting, specific, up-todate information concerning each woman in the ward whom she wants home teachers to motivate to activity in Relief Society. This ward council is the clearing house. It is the time and place where Home Teaching and Relief Society come together. It is an action meeting. If you don't make it function, the wheels of your membership enlistment and attendance programs cease to turn. Your responsibility in this meeting is to see that the Priesthood leadership is made aware of the help you need from them in your Relief Society assignment. Preliminary to this meeting, the ward Relief Society president should advise herself, through contact with the department heads of her ward organization, in a formal meeting or otherwise, concerning the women who are not receiving the blessing and privileges of Relief Society membership and whom she wants to activate. At the council meeting, the alert bishop will have already received reports concerning these women from the home teachers, through their Priesthood leaders. RELIEF SOCIETY AND HOME TEACHING With this information and that given him by the Relief Society president, he can wisely counsel the Priesthood leader of each pair of teachers who will visit these women, how to proceed to get them active in Relief Society. If the home teachers should need the help of a Relief Society officer or teacher in working with any of these women, the Relief Society president can be so advised by the bishop in the council meeting. Then, with this program _ efficiently working, no Latter-day Saint woman who should be in Relief Society need miss _ its benefits. Such is the relationship between Priesthood Home Teaching and Relief Society. Organized by the Prophet. Led by earth's noblest women. Sustained by the faith and works of the whole body of the Priesthood, you cannot fail. God speed you on your divine assignment to help teach and train the women of the earth in the ways of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I humbly pray in his name, Amen. THE GOSPEL Iris W. Schow The gospel is a flaxen tent Upon the desert of the earth; It is a purse whose contents, shared, Retain their undiminished worth. The gospel is a sparkling spring Whence living waters ever flow; A box of spikenard which has been Prepared against the hour of woe. The gospel is a fertile field; White for the harvesting it lies; And all who reap its shéaves of truth Shall see mankind through quickened eyes. 169 The Importance af the Family Home Evening in a Latterday Saint Home gm As I face this great audience of Relief Society workers, it comes most forcibly to me the tremendous potential power for good you sisters have in developing testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ as the Son of the living God in the minds and hearts of the members of the family. To enable us to accomplish this, the General Authorities have provided for us a course of study, known as the Family Home Evening, where we can gather our children around us and teach them the gospel. This is to be a Priesthood supervised evening, wherein the father is to take his place as patriarch and head of his family; where the mother takes her place at his side, that they may work together. Of what importance is the home organization? Where did it originate and what is its purpose? The late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in his inspiring talk on "Our Homes" (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 802), said, "To the Latter-day Saint, the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the Heavens.... Thus we came from a celestial home to this earth; we shall return to a celestial home when we leave this world,' — when all God's laws have been obeyed. 170 Elna P. Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society [Talk Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965.] This clearly states that we all belonged to a heavenly home where heavenly parents taught eternal truths, guided, inspired, and loved the children of that home. Does this inspire us to do the same, to accept the program as given to us, to work out a way whereby all families—large or small, old or young, few or many —can meet and follow the program? President Clark further states that great laws have been given the Latter-day Saint family and by obedience to them and only to them will parents be enabled so to teach their children in righteousness that families will again return to the celestial home. Special Relief Society lessons provide us subject material which is closely correlated with the Priesthood lessons and tie in with the outlined course to be given in the home. From these studies we are reminded of the place and position the father holds in his family. We are retold that in the Latter-day Saint home, the patriarchal order continues as it was ordained in the heavens. The father is the presiding authority in matters pertaining to the family organization, 'The Priesthood-born home is the loftiest spiritual organism of which we know" (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 802). Having learned this great truth, it will be easier for the wife to give this recognition to the husband during the teaching of the Family Home Evening. Here the children will learn respect for the father, for the Priesthood, and will learn to honor both the father and the mother. Upon the father, as patriarch of the family, rests the responsibility for the training and conduct of members of the family. With this knowledge of the origin, purpose, and destiny of the home, with its attending blessings, all effort should be made to create the proper atmosphere and conditions in the home prior to the appointed time for the family to meet. Friction, confusion, outside duties, or any other disturbing influence should | be screened out in order that the father may have the spirit of the Lord to accompany the opening prayer. Plans for the program and assignments are to be made in advance. This will give the children a sense of belonging and of sponsoring the program. Since the mother spends so many hours in the home with her children, she becomes the principal disciplinarian in early child life. Her discipline and influence, her example, determine in a great measure the ability of the children to live good, clean, moral lives, to take an active place in the Church, in the state, and in their own future homes. In order to fill this assignment, a special night is designated in each stake and ward so that outside influences and appointments will not interfere. By divine authority, then, the evening may THE IMPORTANCE OF FAMILY HOME EVENING become a sacred time for the family. God will not hold guiltless parents who fail to do the most they have power to do to meet these responsibilities... (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 808). The Lord has not turned the training of the family in spiritual and moral truths over to the school, nor wholly to the Church. These truths are basic and must be started at the cradle in the home. To take her place, as a "helpmate" to her husband, a mother in Israel is given the choice, the - favored, the divine injunction to ~ train her children that she may. Prepare them for exaltation. We have been given a golden opportunity, in the Family Home. Evening, to teach them that: All this shall come to those who, obedient to God's law, shall be united together in the House of the Lord by the authority of the Holy Priesthood of God. All this can come to them through no other cause (Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 810). President Clark tells us that we must decide the place we shall hold in God's household, in God's family, in our Heavenly Father's eternal home, whether it shall be in the inner family circle or outside in the halls and anterooms. This depends wholly upon what we ourselves do here, and upon what we teach our children. Much of this may be decided in the Family Home Evening. I would like to leave my love with you all and ask the blessings of the Lord on all of your righteous desires. It is my testimony that Jesus Christ, our Lord and Savior is the Son of the living God. 171 Lael J. Littke @ The mailman brought two letters on the day Kathryn Carlson realized that she was no longer a person. One of them was addressed to her, a short note from her mother saying that Grandma Ames was failing fast and that it would be well if Kathryn could come right away. The other letter was for fiveyear-old Mimi. It was merely a form letter from a children's book club, but Mimi was enchanted. "Mama," she marveled, gazing in wonderment at her own name on the envelope. "Mama, somebody knows I'm a person." Kathryn put aside, for the moment, her somber thoughts of Grandma Ames. She smiled at the little girl who had just discovered that she was an individual and that someone in the wide world beyond her home recognized her as such. What could ever equal this discovery of self? "T'm a person," repeated Mimi, 172 The Search for Katie THIRD PRIZE WINNING STORY The Relief Society Short Story Contest clutching the envelope tightly. ( "Just like Daddy's a person." "What about me?" Kathryn asked. ''Am I not a person?" ""You're a mother,' Mimi said. She looked again at her letter, clasped it to her small chest, and skipped off to her room to meditate about herself and the world. Kathryn laughed softly to herself. So now she wasn't a person. Walking back to the sink to resume the dishwashing which had been interrupted by the arrival of the mailman, Kathryn suddenly felt her scalp prickle with something akin to fright. Was she a person? How long had it been since she had thought of herself as a person, an individual personality, a self? She was in the habit of thinking of herself as a wife, a mother, a Sunday School teacher, P. T. A. President, cook, gardener, chauffeur, seamstress, scrub woman, comforter when knees were skinned or feel- "You're a mother," Mimi said. Ings bruised, dispenser of answers to questions ranging from John's early morning ''Where are my socks?" to Mimi's_ unending "Why?" She was a chameleoncreature, changing from one role to another as necessity demanded. She was many things. But a person? An entity with needs and desires to be satisfied? Somewhere that self had been split up into so many fragments that it no longer existed. She was a forty-one-year-old mother of four children. But what had happened to the person she had once been? Kathryn stared at her hands, submerged in the dishwater. Grandma would know what had happened to her. They had always understood each other, the aging woman and the blithe young girl Kathryn had been before she went away to school and marriage. She had been called Katie then. Kathryn thoughtfully sloshed the dishcloth across a plate, remembering how she had run to Grandma when her parents couldn't understand why she wanted to go to an art school in another state. After all, the college right there in town had an art department. Why did she want to leave home and go off somewhere so many miles away? "Some folks are homebodies," Grandma had said. "They figure the moonlight looks just the same on their side of the mountain as it does on the other side, so why go see? But some of us have to go away from all that's familiar to find out more about ourselves and sharpen up our perception. Sort of hone ourselves on the whetstone of the world, you might say." Grandma had smiled at Katie, the young, eager Katie, so impatient to be off to discover herself. ""You're so much like me, Katie. I wanted to go away, too, 173 MARCH 1966 when I was young. I could sing a little, and I wanted to study for a concert career. But then I met Will Ames at a Church picnic and settled for a career that suited me just as well." Grandma patted her granddaughter's hand. "After all, the nicest part of going away is coming home again," she said. After Grandma had talked to Katie's parents, they agreed to let her go to the art school she wanted. She had gone away and "honed" herself, and had been pleased by the new interests and talents she found within herself. THEN she met John Carlson and married him, settling down in that city over a thousand miles from her family. She had been happy, so happy that she didn't even remember when the eager, independent young Katie had disappeared to be replaced by a middle-aged woman, a little overweight, a little tired and harassed, a little gray. A woman who scarcely ever thought of herself any more. A woman called Kathryn. Kathryn's reverie was broken by a tug at her skirt. It was one of the many small people who passed through the house all day long. One of Mimi's friends. "Mimi's mother," said _ the timid sprite, "where is Mimi?" "T think she's in her room, Mimi's friend," Kathryn said. So we're even, she chuckled to herself. Neither of us has an identity. She watched the solemn little girl walk from the room. I'm just Mimi's mother to her, she thought. To Joann's friends I'm Joann's mother. I'm also Diane's mother. And Bob's. I'm 174 John's wife. But-who am I really? She didn't tell her family that evening about not being a person. The children, from sixteen-yearold Joann to five-year-old Mimi, would just be puzzled. And John? Was she a person to John? Or was she just someone who was always there? She decided not to mention it to him, either. It was something she needed to find out for herself. Mimi showed the rest of the family her letter, slightly dogeared by that time. Everyone laughed indulgently when Mimi refused to let anyone else so much as touch the precious envelope. Bob recalled how when he was a little kid (exactly two years ago) he had received a letter from Grandma Ames. He had been so proud, he said, and still had it in his treasure box. Kathryn brought out the letter from her mother and read it to John and the children. Although none of them had seen Grandma more than four or five times, they were all sorry that she was ill. They agreed that Kathryn should go to her bedside as soon as possible. Of course they could get along while she was gone. She knew they were trying to make it easier for her to leave, but in her present touchy frame of mind she wondered if they would even miss her, except as a convenience. Thinking about it later, after she was in bed, Kathryn decided the trip would serve several purposes, besides permitting her to pay her love and respect to the little grandmother who meant so much to her. She could, as Grandma had said years ago, once more remove herself from her familiar surroundings and perhaps rediscover who she was. Perhaps she could find out what had happened to Katie Ames, who had once been a person. Ie anna looked tiny —T 'fragile in her enormous bed. She was ninety-two, but Kathryn still found it almost incomprehensible to think of her so quiet, Grandma who had always been so filled with vitality, who had scampered about fixing dinner for ten people even so recently as three years ago when Kathryn had last seen her. "She's not in any pain," her mother whispered into Kathryn's ear as they stood looking at Grandma. "It's as if she just wore out all of a sudden." Kathryn squeezed back the tears and walked toward the bed. Her mother put a hand on her arm. "She may not know you," she cautioned.. 'Sometimes she's a little vague. Sometimes she says she doesn't know who she is." Kathryn nodded and walked. To the bedside. She picked up the hand which lay inertly on the white coverlet. "Grandma," Kathryn." Grandma opened her eyes slowly, as if she were very tired. "Kathryn?" Her voice was like the tinkle of a tiny silvery bell. She gazed at Kathryn through the blue, blue eyes which had been the envy of all of her granddaughters. "Kathryn." She sighed, a sound like the flutter of a bird's wing. "I don't know who I am any more." she said. "It's THE SEARCH FOR KATIE Mrs. Ames gave Kathryn a "see-what-I-mean" look. "Grandees ma," she said, "you'd better sleep now." Grandma _§ shifted _ restlessly. "Grandma," she whispered. "Who is Grandma?" The frail hand picked at the coverlet. "If Will were here he would know who I am." "We'd better go now," Kathryn's mother said. "She shouldn't get upset." "Let me stay just a few minutes, Mother," Kathryn whispered. Her mother tiptoed from the room. Kathryn looked at Grandma again. Couldn't they see what she needed? Was it only because she, Kathryn, was so much like Grandma that she could understand? Was there no one else who could think of her as someone other than Grandma? "Of course you know who you are,' Kathryn said _ softly. "Melissa Mary Bartlett, the prettiest girl in town." The blue eyes looked questioningly: at her. "Melissa Mary, with the crow's wing hair. Melissa Mary, with the ~summer sky eyes and the tiniest feet this side of the Rockies. Melissa Mary with the voice of an angel." A faraway look crept into Grandma's eyes. "I could hit D above high C," she whispered.. She smiled. "Selina Courtney couldn't do that. She got to A, once." Kathryn stroked the hair which was as soft and white as the down from the cottonwoods - outside. "Remember, Melissa Mary, when you wore the cornflower blue dress at the Church picnic and saw your Will for the first time?" 175 Grandma had told her so many times the story of the picnic. "TI knew how I looked in that dress,' Grandma said. "Selina Courtney didn't have a chance." She closed her eyes and smiled to herself, remembering. Kathryn thought she had gone to sleep. Then the blue eyes opened again. "Kathryn." The soft voice was barely audible. Grandma smiled and closed her eyes, and in repose her face was peaceful. "I wasn't always Grandma," she whispered, just before she drifted off to sleep. "I know," said Kathryn. "I know." She stroked the tiny hand she held until she was sure Grandma slept. "Goodbye, Melissa Mary," she whispered as she tiptoed from the room. Grandma died quietly in her sleep that night. Much as Kathryn would miss her, she was glad Grandma had gone on to rejoin her Will with the memory of herself as the singing, blue-eyed girl Will had first seen and loved. She knew Melissa Mary's homecoming had been a happy one. Kathryn thought a lot about herself and Grandma in the few days she stayed after the funeral. She had come hoping that Grandma could help her one more time, 176 but, instead, she had been able to help Grandma, for which she felt uplifted and rewarded. Perhaps this was part of the puzzle. When you were young you concentrated on taking whatever would help you identify yourself as a person. As you grew older and became wiser and more mature, you began giving of yourself and in doing so forgot yourself. But did this make you less of a person? Was not the giving of oneself even better than the discovery of self, more fulfilling than the indulging of self? Did it not indicate that you had become a bigger and better person, possessing qualities and capabilities you had not dreamed you possessed? Kathryn had not completely solved her problem by the time she boarded the train for her trip home, but she found it being pushed to the back of her mind by the prospects of seeing her family again. THEY were waiting for her on the platform of the train station. John managed to look dignified despite his eager grin. Bob and Mimi waved joyfully, and Joann smiled dreamily at the train as it slowed and stopped. Why, she's like I used to be, Kathryn thought. Dreaming of the time she can board a train or plane and be off to see the world. And Diane, who stood there trying to be grownup but wanting to shout with joy like the younger children—Diane's black hair was just like Katie's had been once, and like Melissa Mary's must have been. Young Katie is gone, Kathryn thought, whisked away by time, yet she is preserved in my chil- dren. Here, then, was another part of the puzzle. She scarcely had a chance to step from the train before the children swarmed over her, laughing, kissing her, welcoming her back. "Mom," said Bob, "It's no fun at home without you there." Mimi handed her the tattered remnants of her letter, the symbol of her discovery that she was a person. "I want you to have this,"' she whispered. Kathryn's heart was full as she listened to the happy chatter of their adventures in her absence. - She could never doubt again but that she was a person, a Very Important Person, in their eyes. If Katie was gone, if she had been sacrificed to the needs of a growing family, then the compensations were well worth the loss. But was she gone? What was she really, except an attitude, a state of mind, a fresh and eager and searching outlook on life? Could she not be recaptured, as Grandma after such a full life had recaptured a memory of a former identity just before she went on to meet her Will? Surely that old zest for seeking and learning must exist somewhere, mingled in with the busy wife, mother, Sunday School teacher, P. T. A. President, person, who was Kathryn. The years that the children are dependent on you are so very brief, Kathryn thought. You brought them into the world and then were caught up in teaching and guiding and caring for them. Before you realized it they were going to school and then soon were off to seek their own places THE SEARCH FOR KATIE in the world, leaving you wondering what to do with this person who had been so happy and absorbed in the role of mother and all it involved, that she almost forgot there was any other way of life. Mimi would be starting school in another month. Would not this, then, be a splendid time to rekindle Katie's old interest in art, indulge in a few special classes, work a morning or two in her friend Clara's interior decorating shop? She would have time to cater to John's tastes in food, too, as. She had done when they were first married, before they were involved in the peanutbutter world. Perhaps she and John could even take that dreamed-of trip, to see if the moonlight on the rooftops of Paris was as exciting as_ it sounded. Life was wonderful, Kathryn decided. The past had been busy and happy, and the years ahead were filled with promise, just as they had seemed to Katie so long ago. Nothing then, really, had happened to Katie, except that she had grown up. John had been standing quietly to one side, waiting for the children to finish their greetings. Now he came forward and handed her a single red rose, just like the first flower he had ever given her. "Welcome home, Katie," he said, smiling down at her. As she looked into his eyes and smiled back, Kathryn knew what Grandma meant when she said her Will would know who she was. For biographical sketch of Sister Littke, see page 210. 177 Appropriate Musie Materials @ Music is old and music is new. It has always existed. Reference to its use as an expression of praise and rejoicing in the preexistent life is given in the scriptures, when the Lord asked Job: "Where wast thou when I laid the foundation of the earth?... When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?" (Job 38:4, 7). It is reported that there are 1,325 references directly or indirectly to music in the Bible. Christ set the pattern for the singing of hymns at the time of the Last Supper, before he and the apostles went into the Garden of Gethsemane. Matthew recorded: "And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives" (Matt. 26:30). The importance of music has again been emphasized in this last dispensation. Soon after the organization of the Church, the Lord gave a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith in which he directed Emma Smith as follows: And it shall be given thee; also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song 178 Cleone R. Eccles Member, General Board of Relief Society [Excerpts from a talk delivered in the Music Departmental Meeting, of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads (D&C 25:11-12). The Relief Society recognized the great spiritual power of music when it organized the first Singing Mothers chorus in 1914. The June 1965 Relief Society Magazine reports that there are now 43,711 Singing Mothers in 3,113 choruses or an increase over last year of 211 choruses. We hope that these choruses will continue to increase until there is a Singing Mothers chorus in every ward and stake in the Church. Sister Florence Madsen has said, '""Every ward should have a Singing Mothers chorus whether large or small. If there are but two members, find a director and start rehearsing. Others will soon become interested."" As many women as possible should become affiliated and enjoy the social and cultural experiences a chorus provides. For some women this is the only opportunity they have for self-expression. I have never heard a poor Singing Mothers chorus. True, some have been better than others, and some have been exceptional. The choice of music usually has peen good. The _ conventional white blouse and dark skirt adopted by the Relief Society, are attractive and lend a unified appearance. Care should be used in the seating of the chorus, placing the taller and larger women in the back rows and the smaller ones in front. If the music program for the year is planned early in the season, it will create enthusiasm and stimulate interest in rehearsals. An active Singing Mothers chorus is a great strength to Relief Society, as the sisters are ready to sing when needed. They are prepared to sing for ward functions and can readily be assembled into a large stake chorus for conferences and concerts. It is important to have stake and ward librarians catalogue all music owned by the organizations, and to know at all times where it is. If the stake chorister knows what music is available in the wards, it may save buying music for a stake concert. Encourage the sisters to take music home with them to study. If they will do this it will take much less time to learn a song. But keep a careful list of who has the music. Some singers may have diffi- * culty reading music, so the dif-— ferent parts should be rehearsed separately. If this is not done with the more difficult songs, the altos and second sopranos will always feel insecure in their parts. When choosing music, leaders should make sure that the songs are appropriate for the occasion, as to text and music. Use songs that express our Latter-day Saint philosophy. Avoid songs that bring Deity down to man's level. APPROPRIATE MUSIC MATERIALS Dr. Stanley Armstrong Hunter said that words have a far reach, and yet there are tremendous regions beyond. Music carries words to far places, where they can never go alone. Music gives life and soul to words. All great music has a great and lofty text. During an interview, Caruso, the world's greatest operatic tenor, was asked, "Where do you locate the source of expression in singing?" His answer was: "I find it in the words always. For unless I give my listeners what is in the text, what can I give them?" In building a repertoire, choose songs of such worth that they can be sung over and over again, and still present some challenge and joy to the singers. You will find a splendid listing of sacred and secular songs in "Music Leadership in the Relief Society," by Florence J. Madsen, graded Easy, Medium, and Difficult, in two and three part arrangements. Singing Mothers programs may be built around a subject chosen from the scriptures, or from the works of composers and poets. Correlating musical numbers may consist of solos, duets, organ, strings, etc., as well as the spoken word. You may find instrumentalists in your wards and stakes who are waiting for just such an opportunity to revive and use their talents. Frequent use should also be made of the hymns in the back of the hymn book that are arranged for women's voices. There are also program suggestions in Chapter 10 of this same little book of Sister Madsen's. To name a few: 179 MARCH 1966 Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns Stories of other Christian hymns Music as a Missionary Seasonal programs, such as Christmas, Easter, Spring, etc. I have heard Sister Florence Madsen say that one of the great benefits of Singing Mothers concerts is to have the husbands and the families of the singers present to see and hear what their wives and mothers have accomplished, and why it has been necessary for them to go to rehearsals. President Belle S. Spafford has said, ""When we have a combination of beautiful music and beautiful women, willing to serve, who have a gift of song, a talent, and use it for the benefit of the Church, we have a creation that is truly worthwhile." For the congregational singing, every song in the hymn book is a good song in its place, but the lesson material may be greatly enhanced by choosing songs that support the objective of the lesson. The Family Home Evening is the ideal time and place to encourage and develop the talents in the family. Let each member have some part on the program. They will never have a more indulgent and sympathetic audience to encourage and coax along their talents. Tommy may falter when playing the piano, and Mary's squeaky violin may not enhance the accompaniment, but it is a wonderful learning process, and they are putting their music to practical use. I am reminded of the home orchestra of my childhood and the many happy eve- 180 nings we spent together as a family. There are songs suggested for - each, lesson in the Family Home Evening Manual, but the program should be flexible to accommodate the different age levels. Let the children suggest songs that they would like to sing. It may be a Primary song or one from the Recreational Song Book, or a familiar hymn. To me, the most important function of music on Family Home Evening is to have a happy time together on a spiritual level. Oliver Wendell Holmes said, "Purchase some kind of instrument for the home and see that its beneficent harmonies are often heard. Let music be as much a part of a day's routine as eating or reading or walking." Children who study musical instruments should often be reminded of the service they can give the Church as conductors and accompanists when they are qualified and ready. This training is also invaluable in the mission field. My grandson, who was a very difficult piano student at home, was very pleased to write to me while on his mission that he could play nearly a hundred hymns from memory. Music has become a very important part of his life because he was able to see its practical application. I will close with the words of the great apostle Paul—"Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord" (Col. 3:16). Little Ducks Can Swim @ It was an early spring morning. The atmosphere held the aroma of a garden that had just been plowed. The buds on the lilacs were like little green candles ready to be lighted, and the daffodils in the corner of the fence like splashes of gold. My cousin Jenny came smiling through the doorway. She held a cardboard box, which she carefully placed on a chair. She seemed very happy as she re- _ moved the cover displaying two tiny ducks. Lostlings, they seemed to be, for they were crying pathetically, each one trying to get closer to the other for comfort. "Our mother duck had so many little ducks she could not care for them all,'"' Jenny was saying. "Mama said she was sure you would like to have these two. They must have different kinds Evelyn Fijeldsted of grain and drinking water. That's all." "How about a place for them to swim?" I asked, hoping to discourage her. I did not want two little ducks. "Oh, they don't really need to swim," Jenny said, "they get along very well without water. Please take them, Ann. They will like it here with you and John." However, when John came he said they should really be on the farm, but he thought this might be an interesting adventure, so we kept them. After Jenny had gone, I looked at the lonely little creatures. To care for them seemed such an unusual task. I found myself wishing they would swim so far away they would never find their way back. They were such helpless, hungry little creatures, my only thought then was to feed them. 181 MARCH 1966. Day after day I fed them, and day after day they shoveled food, their little bills reminding me of little yellow shovels. John made a pen for them by cutting the bottom out of a large shallow cardboard box, and fastening coarse mesh wire over the top. This we placed on the lawn. As the days passed, we could almost see them grow. One morning they seemed to be greatly disturbed. Finally, I went to investigate. One of them had managed to get through the wire and had found himself in the outside world. He was terrified. Not three feet away the cat was watching. He seemed to know something was wrong. He could have so easily hurt the little duck, but he didn't make a move to do so. When he saw me, he came running toward me, and while I was replacing the duck he just sat there and looked on. When the little duck was safely inside the pen the cat followed me back to the house. I wondered if two such little ducks could swim. Maybe all ducks, large or small, could swim naturally. I placed a large basin of water { on the lawn, then carefully I | placed one and then the other on the water. Using their webbed feet for paddles, they sailed around like little boats. They had grown so large now that the two of them almost filled the basin. Near the corner of the 182 lot was a wire enclosure with a small shed at the back. This became their homing base for the next few months. When they had reached their full growth, they could wander about on the outside of the pen. When the sun was high they could stretch in the shade of the big cottonwood tree. They also could swim in an old tub, which we kept filled with water from the hose. Later John made a pond for them with the waste water from an irrigation stream. We placed a box beside the tub and they soon learned that this was a step up to splash into the water, where they sailed around like a merry-go-round. They were ungainly creatures, tripping over their own big feet, which were turned slightly inward. They had to work hard to right themselves. When I called to them they would come half running and half flying across the lawn. Their running ability was not great, but when they would fly, though not very high, they were beautiful and graceful as butterflies. If they found the cat in their path they would each in turn give him a sharp peck. This was an insult he chose to ignore and complacently he looked into space as if they did not exist. Each evening I would walk up to fasten the latch on the little enclosure. When the nights were stormy the ducks would be sheltered back in the shed, and when I spoke to them they would answer reassuringly with sleepy little sounds. On moonlit nights, we could see them standing out in the open, side by side, as still and as artistic as two little white statues. With their heads held high, they seemed to be looking at the stars, wondering at the great silence they seemed to sense. When an airplane droned through the valley skies, they would stop abruptly and stand at attention, looking upward with their heads turned slightly sidewise. With one little searching black eye, each duck telescoped the regions above. In this position they would listen intently until there was no more sound. They seemed to be wondering at this great high-flying mystery and were very quiet as they turned and walked side by side. Once when a small pattern of wild ducks sailed overhead so near to the earth they could be both seen and heard, the ducks sat down and watched and waited. Could it be that these little earth-acclimated creatures could in some unaccountable way sense a kinship with these skyflying travelers that seemed to have some ancestral characteristics that belonged to them, too? When we turned the sprinkler on the lawn, near the outside, where the sprinkling was light, the ducks would weave in and out, following a kind of pattern. When they met they would playfully touch bills, and often they would touch my hand. Then they LITTLE DUCKS CAN SWIM would dart back toward the center where the waterfall was heavier, and where they could reach up and catch the dripping water in their clicking bills. Drinking seemed to be a part of the game or part of the ballet. When we turned the sprinkler off, their tail feathers would be drooping and their wings weighted with the dampness. Then they would streak off for a sunny place to shake out their feathers, and, for the sheer joy of living, they would stand upright like penguins and spread their wings like the brave fierce eagle stamped on the silver quarter. THEY must have heard the river, or perhaps instinct told them that somewhere it was rolling, singing through the valley and calling to them. This insistent calling must have had a deep meaning or message for them. One late afternoon they answered the call and set out to find it. They did not return that evening nor the next, so John went with me to find them. We followed the river, a silver vein leading to the highland reservoir, and we wondered how far a duck could swim. We looked for them in the willows along the rugged banks. We 'called to them and listened, but the only answer was that of the prairie winds and the splash of a fish in the water. We went farther on and searched the marshes, the coves where the watercress grew, and along the side streams until twilight fell on the countryside. One day we met Mr. Nelson, who lived out that way. John said to him, "Have you seen a pair of big white ducks out this way, Mr. Nelson?" 183 MARCH 1966 "Well, come to think of it,'"' he said, "I did see a couple of ducks — over there in the pond a few days ago. Wondered where they came from. Haven't seen them since. Maybe the hunters got them." We knew the hunters in our valley would not shoot tame ducks, and especially out of season, but surely they were exposed to many other dangers. For several hours we continued our search, but we could not find even a white feather. They were gone. They were lost. That night I walked up to the little enclosure. The moon, like a bright tableau, was illuminating the old tub and all the little corners, but it seemed strangely desolate and as remote as the distant hills. The breeze seemed to be like the breath of another world. The leaves on the big trees were shivering. My wish, I thought, had been granted — my wish that the little ducks would swim so far away they could never find their way back. As I turned to go, I felt a kind of regret — a kind of loneliness. One evening, a few days later, we were out in the yard. We heard a great commotion. There was the wild whirring and flapping of wings, and we could hear that old familiar call. It wasn't a frightened call, and plainly it wasn't a swan song, but it was a happy homecoming song. We looked over to see the ducks, like snow white streaks, half running, half flying across the pasture lot. They ran straight for the little enclosure and passed single file through the open gate as fast as their little short legs and big flat feet could carry them. They were too contented to answer when we called to them. They had come home. Soon the leaves were tinged with autumn dye. The little pond would soon be lost in depths of snow. The corner shed was not built to hold back the heavy storms, so one day, they flapped out to winter on the farm where they could have a wider range and where they would be safe. The April 1966 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, featuring four outstanding short stories. Watch for these stories in April: 'Look Mom: One Hundred Dollars"' by Helen H. Trutton - —oee "Thomena's Break Through'' by Dorothy Clapp Robinson "Birthday Present for Amy'' by Mary Ek Knowles "That. Certain Sparkle" by Frances Carter Yost YUCCA IN THE SAN GABRIEL MOUNTAINS, CALIFORNIA, by Don Knight ® 184 irred long-parched plains, now, Through desert spells, By myriads Of clustered beils. This year, a promise Long entombed Knew swift release. The yuccas bloomed! EDITORIAL The Sustaining Power of Relief Society mw A husband advised a man whose family had just moved into the ward, 'If you want to have your family integrated, have your wife join Relief Society." The advice was gratefully followed and soon the family members had friends in their peer groups. The mother became a visiting teacher and made friends not only with the sisters who attended Relief Society but also a few who were visited who did not attend Relief Society. The family became a happy integrated part of the ward. The sustaining power of Relief Society in the life of a Latter-day Saint woman was provided by a loving Heavenly Father. As an auxiliary of the Priesthood, its spirit transcends nationalities and cultures. In another ward a Relief Society member gathered into her home those sisters in the ward who had English as a second tongue. Though a few were still unable to understand English, Relief Society had been the means of bringing them together in loving bonds. A sister who had lived in a ward only a short time when her husband passed away, was only able to mingle with so many strange people through a Relief Society neighbor calling for her to attend Relief Society meetings, from which she gained strength to attend the sacrament meetings. Sometimes a husband who is not a member of the Church allows his wife to go to Relief Society, whereas he does not want her away from the home on Sunday. The sustaining power which may come to her is incalculable. From the study of the scriptures she receives strength to live more perfectly day by day. From the Teaching the Gospel in the Home lessons, she receives suggestions on improving family relationVolume 53 March 1966 e Belle S. Spafford, @ Marianne C. Sharp, @ Louise W. Madsen, e Hulda P. Young, ships. She may improve in all phases of homemaking and become knowledgeable in the cultural arts. She receives confidence in her everyday living and the strength to interest her husband through the power of her sweet example. One such sister prevailed upon her husband to attend a sacrament meeting at which the Singing Mothers were performing. The warm friendliness of other families was the means through which Home Teachers were allowed to call. In time this resulted in the conversion of the husband. The influence of a good woman has no bounds. Nor does the influence of Relief Society in helping to make a good woman better. Relying on the authority which a calling gives a woman gives her the means of accomplishing far greater things than she personally feels able to perform. Wisdom in training children is not the least value learned in Relief Society, and basic to growth is the recognition of the power of the Priesthood and the necessity to be obedient to the advice of a husband, exercised in righteousness. Relief Society teaches women to sustain the Priesthood, which is basic to progression. Relief Society schools the intellect of women. Relief Society trains the skills of women. Relief Society enlarges the souls of women and builds in them a sustaining power to forsake evil and cling to the good. Relief Society was given as a sustaining power to the womanhood of the Church. It is for every Latter-day Saint woman a means of improving herself and bestowing service on others. —M. C. S. ~ Ramona W. Cannon Marguerite Higgins, famous American journalist, died January 3, 1966, at the age of forty-three, of a liver complaint which it is believed, she contracted in the line of duty in Viet Nam. "'Maggie'' Higgins was especially noted as a war correspondent, and always placed the accuracy, humanity, and general high quality of her work above her personal welfare. One of her editors said of her, ''She was one of the best newspapermen this country ever had." She was still turning in columns while she lay critically ill in the hospital. Michico, Crown Princess of Japan, gave birth to a second son in December. Third in line to the throne, the prince was named Fumihito, and given the title ''Ayanomiya.'"' In the Japanese language, Fumihito means ''knowledge pursuer."' Mrs. Mabel Jones Gabbott, whose poems have appeared in the Relief Society Magazine, has been named poetry and fiction editor of the Improvement Era. She is the author of the words to three Latter-day Saint hymns: 'In Humility, Our Savior," "Lord, Accept Into Thy Kingdom,"' and "Rejoice, Ye Saints of Latter Days." She has served in the Northwestern States Mission. Miss lanthe Harris of New York City is director of the American Nurses Association educational program. The aim is to help this large national group to perform functions in society which cannot be performed individually. 188 Princess Chumbhot of Thailand is Chairman of Bangkok's new Asia Trust Bank, Ltd. Many other women of Thailand are leaders in various types of business, and it is estimated that women own about ninety per cent of Bangkok's real estate. Mrs. Somsri Charoenrajapark is manager and owner of a mammoth combination of bowling alleys, restaurants, and parking garages. She owns a large interest in the more-thana-million-dollar President Hotel. Mrs. Suni Telan owns and manages much of the stock of a holding company which controls several hotels, an export-import firm, rice mills, teak and mining companies, an aluminum fabricating plant, and extensive real estate. Supapan Mejudhon helps her mother run a forty-nine boat ferry fleet on the Chao Phraya River. Marion Sheil, personnel director of the Cuyahoga County, Ohio, public library system, is one of the many library officials reporting an acute shortage in this profession. In her district, which circulates some five million books annually, she reports that it often takes two years to find trained personnel to staff the twenty-four libraries in Cuyahoga County. It has been estimated that there are about 6,000 medical libraries in the country, but only 3,000 trained librarians to staff them. Juanita Groves, a Ute Indian of Myton, Duchesne County, Utah, has initiated a series of health education programs for Indian women. The first program included instruction in personal hygiene and certain aspects of communicable disease prevention. You Can Help, Too Emil Henderson American Red Cross @ ''Please let me know if there is anything | can do to help."' How many times have we said and written these words to a friend or had a friend say them to us when tragedy and misfortune struck. They are words expressing the true meaning of the brotherhood of man. Unfortunately, since we cannot always be there or do not always know that people are in trouble and need our help, we must often rely on someone else to do the job for us. The American Red Cross is one organization that is uniquely well suited and perfectly willing to do the job and to say to people in every corner of the nation and the world: ''Let me help.'' But, as President Johnson reminded us when he declared March as Red Cross Month, only we can keep the Red Cross strong and on the job by our contributions of money and volunteer service. If we cannot go to Louisiana to help the —— left homeless by Hurricane Betsy, we can entrust our dollars to the Red Cross to be sent in our place. Few of us can go to Viet Nam to provide the essential personal services needed by our able-bodied and wounded military personnel, but Red Cross is there for us. Most of us can give a few hours every week as volunteers. The Red Cross offers us the opportunity to reach the people in our own community who have a special need for the friendship and help of another human being. As the slogan, ''You Can Help, Too—Join Up, Join In," indicates, the Red Cross offers us the opportunity to say to friend and stranger alike, 'Please let me know if there is anything | can do to help."' Zea ON LIMITATIONS OF MORTALITY Lael W. Hill There is always a beyond. | will always try to find it. No thing can be forever bound— 1 must forever try to bind it. 189 << * Ae. He MARCH 1966 ar "re wy ' / iy ' LO. 4 Ly 5 Be ha) Embroidery Adorns Her Quilts Mrs. Magdalene Schoenfeld has made more quilts than she can remember. Many of her beautifully stitched quilts have been adorned with embroidery—crossstitch and lazy-daisy—floral and geometric designs. Relief Society organizations in several wards have been proud and grateful to display Mrs. Schoenfeld's artistic work. Now, at ninety-three, she still works on quilts, finishing them and carefully stitching the bindings. She tells the Relief Society sisters that they aren't keeping her busy enough. She has been a member for seventy-three years, and a visiting teacher for fifty-three years. Now a member of Poplar Grove Second Ward in Pioneer Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), she rejoices in Relief Society and counts her many blessings. She keeps her home ''neat as a pin'' and cooks for her son. Her happy spirit reaches out to friends and neighbors in love and service. 190 -. ~~. " Sierra Blanca AN fo Las Cruces VAN Rg 12,004 ft. Ota <- a "< on sai Cloudcroft 4 ' Alamagordo ©) eo ey ~* National Monument alt. Approx. _f /* 4200 ft. Lake ( SS F visitor Lucero —+— > Center ) te ® ha Cubs Los Alamos @) [y-" rReucnas y The White Sands of New Mexico claire Nnoait @ Southern New Mexico's White Sands National Monument is a maze of ever-shifting, ever-whispering dunes. Matthew and | arrived at the Visitor Center in late afternoon. We had driven down from Cloudcroft, high in the Sacramento Mountains, where we had seen brightly clothed skiers cutting glissandi in actual, pine-girt snow. Within an hour's time we lost a thousand feet in altitude but thereby gained a warmth of velvet air in arid drouth. We left roadside flowers nodding April's greeting to enter a fairyland of simulated snow. This texture holds no visible moisture; yet in the marginal dunes a scant vegetation lifts its stems forty feet through burying sands. The roots, lying incredibly deep, anchor the grains of gypsum. A few species survive, such as shrubby pennyroyal, four-wing saltbush, and dark green iodine plant. The low crowns challenge the ceaseless charge borne on the prevailing northeasterly winds. Root, stem, and leaf pedestal the restless particles until they adhere almost as if cemented together. The sands may arrive on a whisper or stampede on a gale; but, because they seldom purl beyond the bastion, the dark-blotched hills wall them in. From these highly patched border-dunes we commenced the Loop Drive, cleared as nature dictates, where, presently, no plant was seen. The white road glistened and reflected the blue of the sky. It curved in and out between winged hills, and, suddenly, | felt an irresistible desire to leave the car—which must not leave the road. | left the car and ran headlong toward the slopes, my spirit light. My husband Matthew fol- 191 MARCH 1966 lowed at a more leisurely pace. Up the dunes | raced, weaving a pattern of footprints in cupping palms which permit no permanence. The white sands covered my sandals as 1 stood. The sands crept away like waves of water, leaving me almost without a footing. Prints dissolved under my path, Prints made by running children remained, linked for a moment only, then they vanished, even as the laughter of these young, barefooted visitors faded across the air. Children are particularly welcome at this Monument. Conservation here stands aside for recreation. Many people come—as many as 300,000 in a single season. | climbed a high slope, and every rippling wave increased in brightness according to its opposing shadow. Evening was at work. The gleam assumed the luster of mother-of-pearl. A few parallel lines, scratched on the gypsum bed at the foot of the dune, shone like mica. As the day's bright azure faded, | reached the cream-colored crest and looked into the pots of blue at my feet. Long shadows of low-keyed indigo, subdued by the non-reflecting light, gradually descended the full length of the immense oval bowl. | stood on the crest with my husband, hand in hand in the solitude of sundown, in the aloneness of April, and for me the dunes began to write a poem, a poem of accent and meter, of curving line and irregular sequence—a poem of silence, too, except for the distant calls of the children. Seconds passed. Length of line, foot, and stanza changed. We strolled down the slope to the channel, when all at once an unexpected golden light tinted every windward exposure. The alpenglow had touched each sunward crest, slope, and ripple. They shone pale as the fire of white sandalwood; then the magical veils of coral and crimson commenced to lower their hems. We turned a bend. A wee white pocket mouse caught the shimmer. It scurried away, making no more lasting impression in these shifting waves than the small bleached, earless white lizard can cut. Only these two species of animal have adapted to the white environment. Once upon a time the valley stretched between its two ranges of mountains level as a table. To the east, the Sacramentos are capped by 12,000 foot Sierra Blanca's snowbound peak. Westward, the San Andres range crests dark blue against a more remote horizon. The great sink provided no outlet for its drainage. In the distant mountains snow and rain still dissolve the gypsum. The run-off finds its way to reed-grown Lake Lucero'in the southeastern corner of the Monument. When the moisture dries, it leaves behind exquisitely translucent elongated crystals. The wind, with busy fingers, tools these jewels into miniature spheres. An area of more than 275 square miles has succumbed to the display. The rare white grains move faster and pile deeper under the northeasterly winds than do the sands of any comparable area in the world's barrens. If the wind blows the sands against your car, don't worry; they'll mar neither paint nor glass; they'll not scratch your face; and though they may pelt your legs your hose will not fall apart. The grains are 192 somehow both soft and slightly heavy. They fly close to the floor, and still they shift and take shape. The dunes rise and elongate, drift and diminish, only to rise again. The Loop Drive is constantly cleared to keep it from being drifted over. The hard white road is marked by mileposts which one is asked - to respect. In the soft shoulders, the wheels of a car bog down, and, if they spin, the driver calls for help. To dig a tiny groove in the gypsum bed is to see how close to the hard surface the water level lies. A runnel forms, whose waters, being highly mineralized, support a wide variety of microscopic life; but they will not support you; they are not potable. You may picnic in the Monument provided you bring your own supplies. None are available at the Visitor Center; nor is there a restaurant. In a widely cleared area, however, among the dunes, tables are shaded by metal-slatted sails which, curving against the wind and reflecting the blue of both sky and sand, suggest a flotilla of ancient Norse ships. Food was forgotten in the gleam of alpenglow. Night was closing in. The beam of starlight soon would be tracing these ghostly crests. | asked myself what moonlight could not do for them. Again | felt the pulse of the dunes expand and decrease, rise and diminish. Again | heard the poem of silence, the runic song which sang of itself in the White Sands National Monument. For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come (Solomon 2:11, 12). > A Present lor Grandma Celia Luce @ When our daughter was about five, she and | worked out a present for her grandmother. She made several pictures, mostly of people, but some of animals, houses, and trees. | cut patterns from her pictures, and stenciled them onto a lunch cloth. Naturally | made myself one, too. Her grandmother and | have treasured them ever since. Later, | wrote to my nieces and had them send me some drawings their children had made. For Christmas | gave my sister-in-law a set of dish toWels. Each dish towel had the drawing from one of her grandchildren painted on. Two of the children were almost too young to hold a crayon—this was the first. Drawing each had ever made. These were just scribbles in color, but they made interesting and precious designs on the dish towels. | never saw my sister-in-law more pleased over any gift. The stenciled cloth we made several years ago was a lot of work. The dish towels were easy. For the dish towels | used textile paints that come in tubes with a ball point on the end of the tube. They are especially good for reproducing the crayon drawings, too, for they make a mark like a crayon. | paid 50 cents a tube for the paints, but a tube contains enough paint for hundreds of uses. They are wonderful for decorating any household linens. In any textile painting, the first job is to wash the material to be painted. Most new cloth contains starchy filler. If that isn't washed out, part of the paint goes onto the starch, and the paint washes out with the starch, leaving a dull, lifeless pattern. | used two methods of transferring the design. For the older children's drawings | used a sheet of carbon paper and tracea the design onto the dish towel. For the babies' scribbles this was too complicated. | pinned the drawing under the cloth, then used a piece of glass with a light under it. Then | could see the design and draw it right on without tracing with carbon. The paints work like writing with a ball point pen. Use a scrap of old cloth to get the paint flowing right—just as you start a balky ball point pen on a scrap of paper. Then just go over the design. Push down on the tubes, but do not squeeze them very hard. Squeezing may build up pressure inside the tube that makes the paint ooze out and fill the cap after you have put it away. Embroidery hoops may be used to hold the material taut, but put the cloth in upside down from the usual way. The cloth must be below the hoops rather than above the hoops, for you must have a hard surface under the cloth to work on. Always use newspaper under the cloth as a little of the paint will come through onto the table otherwise. When the painting is finished, dampen a press cloth with vinegar and place over the design, then press with the iron. This makes the design more permanent. Use a rag for a press cloth as a little of the color comes off in this first pressing. These designs stay for a long time. They fade a little with repeated washings, but not greatly. 196 Divinity Easter Eqgs Recipes from the Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania) Branch Submitted by Rachel H. Gowans, President Eastern Atlantic States Mission Relief Society @ The making and sale of candy Easter eggs has been a money-making project for severai years in the Pittsburgh Branch. The sisters have found enjoyment and dear companionship in working together ''cutting cherries, pineapples, and nuts, making the candy eggs, dipping and boxing them."' Last year the members of this branch made 1400 pounds of candy eggs and 2400 animals (''cellophane wrapped, nestled in Easter straw, in colorful boxes''). They contributed $1500 to the building fund and $106 for other needs. DIVINITY EASTER EGGS Basic Recipe 4 c. Sugar 2 large egg whites or substitute 1/3 1 c. Syrup c. Of albumin mixture, which is 6 2 c. Water parts water to 1 albumin Cook to hard ball stage, 260°. Pour slowly over stiffly beaten egg whites. Beat until firm enough for molding. It will firm up more after it cools. Put in fruit and nuts, or coconut, or whatever filling you desire; weigh out eggs in amounts to suit sizes desired; then mold. Have tray buttered, buttered paper on scales, and butter your hands slightly. One batch of divinity with coconut makes approximately 4 Ibs. Of candy. One batch of divinity with fruit and nuts makes approximately 5 to 7 Ibs. Amounts For coconut, one c. Coconut For fruit and nuts: 114 c. Each of candied cherries, candied pineapple, and nuts. For nuts: 114 c. Cutting Nuts and Fruit Cut cherries in half Cut pineapple in small chunks, the size of a cherry. Chop a few nuts at a time in rather small pieces, then push them aside, and chop more. Do not keep chopping nuts over already chopped nuts. You get too many crumbs. Have all this done before starting to make the eggs. Chocolate Dipping (Work on a cool day, if possible. Avoid humidity. Do not work in a steamfilled room. Work in a cool room. Avoid drafts.) Chocolate should be cut in rather small pieces, not grated. Chocolate can be melted in an electric roaster or an oven. If melted in the oven set the heat at 150° or less. Stir often, but do not beat. As soon as the chocolate is melted, put it in a smaller bowl and place the bowl in cold water, stirring until it is cool. Stir well to blend the oils. When cool, place the bowl in a pan of water about 83° (lukewarm). This will 198 DIVINITY EASTER EGGS keep the chocolate from hardening too fast. Work fast before chocolate hardens. Stir with circular motion, using wooden spoons. Coat bottoms first. When set, coat the rest of the egg. Avoid getting any water in the chocolate. Avoid having eggs too cold when dipping. Be sure all of egg is covered. When chocolate egg is cool handle from underneath the egg. Fingers mark the chocolate. Decorating Eggs Have flowers for decorating made up ahead of time. Have a different color for each kind of egg, for example coconut: white flower nut: yellow flower fruit and nut: pink flower. Maple: paie blue flower Make up green leaves ahead of the flowers and separate them. Recipe for icing to make flowers 1 pkg. (1 Ib.) powdered sugar 4 tsp. Cream of tartar 3 egg whites coloring Beat with electric beater, until the mixture looks like Crisco. Keep wet cloth over icing to keep it workable. Do not make flowers too high, as the box top will crush them. Put flowers on wax paper or aluminum foil as you make them, so they will come off easily when needed to be placed on eggs. Wait until chocolate on the eggs is cooled to put on the flowers. To put flowers on eggs, dab a tiny bit of chocolate on bottom of the flower and place the flower on egg. Too much chocolate will spread out and show on the egg. I. Itt. Making Light and Dark Chocolate Easter Eggs Left to right: Florence Simmons, head of candy-making project; Erma Williamson; Helen Hatch, President Pittsburgh Branch Relief Society, and Secretary-Treasurer, Eastern Atlantic States Mission Relief Society; Frances Hoffman. 199 Zi hae Hal Rumel A Golden Harvest Of Knitting Display from the Work Meeting Exhibit at the Relief Society Annual General Conference 1965 The colorful afghans, stoles, and sweaters featured in the above display were part of a varied and beautiful exhibit from East Mill Creek Sixth Ward, East Mill Creek Stake. The display featured articles which older sisters, as well as younger sisters, enjoy making. Most of the articles in the picture were made by Mary Brockbank North, ninety-three years old. She learned to knit after her seventyfifth birthday and quickly became an expert. Last year she won five first prizes at the County Fair, and five firsts at the Utah State Fair, as well as two seconds and one third place. Her knitted afghans have received much praise for their lovely color, unusual design, and expert craftsmanship. Each afghan looks as if the decorative motifs had been made separately and then attached to the afghan, but they are an intrinsic part of the knitting, and stand out in exquisite detail. Elizabeth Simon - FLOWERS OF TOMORROW Dorothy J. Roberts Edge me with evening—why should | Hope for gold forever poured from sky, Knowing how in darkness planets bioom, And spring is contoured from the dream's dim room. Temper me with midnight when light has gone, Darkness always being the harbinger of dawn. Seed me with summer in the dark and cold As has been the way since time was tolled. Faith being sinew and bridge between, Faith being substance, though unseen; Tenuous, essential, fet its fibers grow, Flowers of tomorrow forming under snow. MARCH 1966 Hal Rumel Blue and Yellow Springtime Table Creative Arrangement by Florence C. Williams For a springtime luncheon or dinner party, or for light refreshments in the evening, a blue and gold springtime table is a delight that lifts the spirits into the season of sunlight and flowers. For entertainment in the home, or for a graduation party or a Relief Society closing social, the blue and gold theme speaks a floral welcome. The wooden-shoe containers in the picture are painted blue, and the looped greenery is 'leather' fern. The flowers in the wooden shoes are bachelor's buttons (Centaurea cyanus) and daisies. The tall spikes in the decorated pitcher are snapdragons and deiphinium. Similar arrangements could be made by using other types of greenery, such as myrtle (Vinca), ivy, or asparagus fern. Yellow asters, lilies, daffodils, or hyacinths could be used with blue phlox, campanula, columbine, or mertensia, or in combinations of various blue and yellow flowers having sufficient ''body'' in petals and stems to make effective arrangements. Floral clay, ''frogs,'' or wire mesh can be used for holding the flowers in position. If some of the stems appear to be fragile, they can be supported by inserting a "thread"' of fine wire. It will be a happy springtime with a floral welcome designed in blue and gold. 202 Te @ Quilting is enjoying a tremen- (] iltin dous popularity. Quilted fabrics ll lj adorn furniture of all styles, from Early American, French and Italian e Provincials, and the Spanish and (Ne Ac Ancient Mediterranean influences, to Contemporary. Beds are attractively spread with quilted bedspreads. Quilted cornices for draperies are CS Cr dy a feature of lovely rooms. Quilted cushions bring gay touches of color. Warm winter robes are often | A | ( quilted. Practically every child who CW § |) ay needs a warm coat has a quilted parka or the lining of his coat ts j quilted. Sports-minded adults find Counselor Louise W. Madsen | puffs are still used, in fact, the uses of quilting are more numer-; ous and varied today than ever | before. (continued on page 209) Sego Lily Quilt Original design by Mary C. Imlay, made under the direction of Grantsville Stake Relief Society Hal Rumel f quilted sportswear attractive. Down Transparencies by Hal Rumel An Appliquéd Quilt in Raised Design Nellie H. Smith The quilt pictured above is made of white ''crinkle crepe'' and decorated with raised appliqué motifs of flowers, buds, and butterflies. A white crepe quilt top can be centered with a colored piece of crepe about 3 1/2' x 4 1/3' and the appliqued design placed on the center color. The center part can be cut in large scallops, the edges carefully turned under with a blind stitch, and an edging of tatting or other itype lace attached around the scallops. The design is planned and the appliquéd motifs attached before the quilting is done. A quilting design 204 QUILTING—OLD AS ANCIENT YESTERDAY—NEW AS TODAY of appropriate scrolls or flower shapes adds to the interest and beauty of the quilt. Various types of flowers, buds, or butterflies may be used. Cut the decorative patterns and carefully turn the edges under with a small running stitch. Each petal or wing or bud is then gathered with small stitches, and assembled and joined together. The flower centers may be made of a small circle of double crochet. The petals and wings may be edged with a narrow crocheted edge, double fluting in a different color, or another type edging. The flower stems are outline stitch. The tops of some of the buds are wheat stitch, with small dots at the top, and some of them may be edged with tatting. Sunbonnet Quilt original design by Luacine S. Clark Drawings and music in book by Luacine C. Fox; lyrics by Luacine S$. Clark od - QUILTING—OLD AS ANCIENT YESTERDAY—NEW AS TODAY <4 Petals, Stars, And Butterflies— Quality Quilts By Ann Campbell Butler Ann Campbell Butler, Springville, Utah, has made more than a hundred quilts, artistic in design and beautifully stitched. She is a specialist at making baby quilts, such as the one in the upper right-hand corner of the picture. Royal Hawaiian Coat-of-Arms Quilt This lovely quilt in rich and radiant 'color was made by the Relief Society sisters of Honolulu, Hawaii, and was presented to Colonel Elmer G. Thomas by one of his reserve officer candidates. Colonel Thomas presented the quilt to the General Board of Relief Society for display in the Relief Society Building, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Hal Rumel Ella C. Winder With Her Colorful Quilts Ella C. Winder, Idaho Falls Nineteenth Ward, has served as Relief Society quilting chairman for several years, and has instructed many women who have become expert quilters. 207 Hal Rumel New Zealand Historical Quilt Quilt Owned by Elva T. Cowley The blackbird and yellow flowers represent the birds and flowers of New Zealand. The central figure is the chief. The woman (upper right) is standing in front of her home. The woman in the lower right-hand corner is doing the poi dance, with a poi ball in her hand. The other woman has a woven basket full of food which she is lowering into a steam-filled pit. She wears around her neck the ''Tiki,'' a charm which is supposed to produce fertility in women. The man (top of picture) is crouched ready to hunt. 208 Quilting—Old As Ancient Yesterday—New As Today (continued from page 203) The origin of quilting is lost in the antiquities. Sometime, somewhere, someone devised a method of keeping loved ones warm by padding their clothing and bedding. The padding had to be kept in place, so small, exact stitches were used. In its earlier uses the quilt was made thick and, sometimes, used as a mattress. The knights of old wore a stitched wadded lining under their suits of armor. When made stout and closely padded, it was also used as a substitute for armor. The word quilt comes into English from the old French cuilte. This is derived from the Latin culcitra, a stuffed mattress or cushion, which became coutre pointe in French, and was corrupted to counterpoint in English, which was in turn changed to counterpane. Thus, ''counterpane,"' a coverlet for a bed, and ''quilt'' are, by origin, the same word. The art of quilting was not confined to one people, one country, or even one continent. Its use in oriental countries has been prevalent since ancient times. Museums displaying the artifacts of former days have classic examples of quilting from many different lands. What began as, perhaps, merely utilitarian became beautiful as well. Talented women with a creative flair produced articles of great beauty and worth. Quilts were and still are challenging to the most intricate aspects of needlework art. The matchless artistry of some quilts has lasting appeal. The types and kinds of quilting are many and varied. Patchwork quilting is distinctly American, pioneer in spirit, illustrating the ingenuity of those who could bring beauty and comfort from the merest scraps of material. Thrift and whimsy are present in this form of the quiltmaker's art. Frequently, these quilts were almost a family history, with bits and pieces of clothing worn at some momentous event inculcated in the design, recalling and recapturing the memories. Many patterns, such as the ''Wedding Ring" and the various ''Star'' patterns, are still used. The skill of appliqué shows to best advantage on quilted articles. The quilting enhances the beauty and makes the design stand out. As an artist uses color and form, so a quilter places her materials according to color, contrast, and design. Like a painting, the skillful artisan makes a picture of stitches and cloth. Some quilts are merely tied, but charming effects are brought into being by clever new techniques. Baby quilts are particularly suited to this type of quilt-making since it is quick and easy and can be very attractive. 4 There is romance and sentiment attached to many quilts, and a legacy of patterns and motifs has been left to the present-day quilter. Quilts were often created to commemorate special events; a wedding, a birthday, an historical occasion, or a romance. Designs and stitches, pen and ink or painted details, color, and often the signature of the maker, tell a fascinating story. Friendship quilts were popular in the middle years of the nineteenth century. Friends would each make a block and sign their names. These blocks were assembled and quilted 209 MARCH 1966 by the group. Usually the blocks were quite different in design, fabric, and workmanship, with each a sample of the maker's distinctive style. They came to be known as '"'album quilts." At this time quilts were often given as wedding presents. Relief Society has greatly aided in keeping the quilting art alive, in introducing new uses for quilting, and in creating new styles and using new fabrics. Few women in the world take the time to quilt, but groups of sisters in Relief Society share the joys of sisterhood and the pleasure of creating beauty as they work around a quilt. As is true of many things, handworked quilting is usually more beautiful than machine-made. May this lovely art never be lost. May Relief Society continue to have a sentimental attachment for this creative skill and introduce its fascinating aspects to all who will learn. ~~ A QUILTER Caroll Orton Once upon a special day | met a quilter sweet and gay. She taught me things that | should know— The do's and don'ts of how to sew. A grandmother she was, with fingers nimble (And | hadn't learned to use a thimble.) She seemed most adept at stitchery And someday a quilter like her | hope to be. Biographical Sketch of Lael J. Littke Lael J. Littke, winner of the third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, although a young woman, is already well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, having been represented by several short stories, one of which placed second in the contest last year. ''Mink Creek, Idaho, is my home town, and will always be my beloved mountain home, although our old family farm is sold now, and my mother lives in Salt Lake City. | was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University. My husband George C. Littke is an assistant professor of Government at California State College in Los Angeles, and we have a five-year-old daughter Lori who thinks kindergarten is great fun. "My main interests are my family, my Church work, including my appointment as stake Relief Society theology class leader, and as a visiting teacher. | spend a good deal of time writing, and besides a number of short stories this year, | wrote the ward MIA road show and some Relief Society skits. "Last summer, my husband, our daughter, and | enjoyed a business and pleasure automobile trip across the country. We visited old friends in New York City, where we lived for nine years, and also visited the World's Fair, a special thrill, since we moved away from New York just seven months before the fair opened. The trip increased our awe and love of this magnificent land in which we live, with its varied beauties and its wonderful, friendly people." 210 Dianne Whitelock @ Claire watched the car with tear-brimmed eyes as it backed slowly from the long driveway, straightened, and drove smoothly down the _ alder-lined _ street. Turning, she slipped inside the house and shut the door quietly behind her. The living room was dark except for the glow from the small light above the kitchen sink, always left on when a loved one was away. One shaft of the pale light rested gently on the old family portrait on the west wall of the contemporary living room. Claire moved towards it and regarded it thoughtfully. She had always thought it to be the perfect picture, encompassing all that was needed to compose an ideal family. Tonight, however, she looked at it through new eyes, and though the canvas remained unchanged to the eye, it seemed to lack something. She noted it carefully. There was Andy — only a baby, then. Claire thought of him now, as she smiled and dried the tears that had_ slipped down her lovely cheeks — he was all boy, that was certain. As she looked at his picture it seemed incredible that within the year he would be eligible to become a deacon and hold the Priesthood. Time has flown, she admitted. Then there was Melanie — Melly, as they called her — standing there so tall in the frilly pink dress they had given her on her fifth birthday. My, what a lovely young lady she turned out to be, mused Claire, as she remembered that lately Melly seemed to have had something on her mind that she wouldn't communicate to anyone. Could it be that she has known all along, Claire questioned herself? Her heart swelled with joy even at the thought. Examining the portrait again with loving eyes, she saw her Jill standing there behind a younger version of Claire, with her hand 2u MARCH 1966 resting lightly on her mother's shoulder. There she was, newly baptized, then, with a smile on her face that glowed like the reflection of the sun in a small mirror. Claire thought of her now, Jill, the adored, the admired. She was a treasure, but, lately, her grades had. Been slipping, and to Claire, who knew how much college meant to Jill, that could only mean male trouble. Pensively, she regarded the young men that Jill had dated recently. All of them were returned missionaries, she recalled gratefully, but Jonathan Mayfield seemed to surpass all the others. Sue wondered how she could think so coherently about such things after what had just happened, but she knew that it was vital, so vital. Everything had to be thought out with every consideration to everyone so that whatever would happen would be the right thing. But what if events did not turn out the right way? For a moment doubts clogged Claire's mind, but she rose above them as she looked at the portrait once more — into -his face. Her John had been so young then. How withered he had looked, she recalled, when he had passed away only a few years after they had all posed so eagerly for the photographer. She had known that he hadn't much time to live, but it seemed it had come too soon, too soon. Regarding him, who had been absent so long from their midst, she spoke softly, saying, "You know what is in my heart tonight, and I'm certain that you understand, my darling, and are very happy for me. This is a good thing that has happened, and it 212 must turn out right, it simply must!"' She' looked at his boyish face as if she expected him to nod his head. Realizing what she was doing, she quickly turned away and made her way to check on the children and collect her thoughts. Turning on the hall light, she ascended the stairs and slipped noiselessly into Andy's room. It took a moment to accustom herself to the darkness. She looked lovingly towards Andy's bed, and her heart contracted with fear. His bed was empty! Her body began to shake, but her voice remained calm as she called him quietly. But no answer came. She rushed to the bed, hoping that he had simply fallen out of bed; but he was not on the floor, as so often she had found him. Claire put her hand to her soft hair and prayed silently for help. Still praying, she hurried down the hall to Melly's room and found the door slightly ajar. Opening it quickly to avoid the creaking that usually awoke the light-sleeping Melly, she blinked her eyes to season them to the cool darkness. She glanced at Melly's bed and saw a solitary figure sprawled out on the ivory chenille bedspread—but it was not Melly. As she moved closer, she saw that it was Andy with his Little League cap slightly on his head. Adjacent to the bed was Melly, curled up in the same cushioned chair that Claire had used as a child. She slipped to their side and smiled in grateful relief. Melly looked like an angel personified with her long auburn locks that flowed around her face and halfway down to the floor. "Asleep," sighed Claire. "Thank heavens they're all right." She turned to go back to prepare the bed in Andy's room when she heard a faint whisper. Wheeling around, she questioned, "Who is it?" "It's me, Mom." "I thought you were asleep, Melly." "Not really. I was waiting for you to come home." She yawned. "Why, dear?" "Oh, just because I spent till midnight convincing Andy that he wanted Professor Seth for a father, and I wanted to know what your answer was so ['ll know if what I went through was in vain or not." She yawned again, but she also had a pixie grin on her face. So she really did know, thought Claire. But it still took a moment for the intense meaning of Melly's words to come clear in her mind. When she finally realized what had just been said, she stood there motionless, not having the words to express her joy. "Mother, say something. Surely he asked you tonight?- He promised me he would!" By this time, Melly was sitting up with an anxious look on her shadowed face. "Oh, darling," smiled Claire, as she moved to her and gave her a short hug and kiss, "'of course he did; but I didn't know you knew! I had to tell him that I would have to think over his kind offer, because it wouldn't be for just myself that I would be making the decision. It would have to be for all four of us." "But you love him, don't you, Mom?" Claire looked out of the window and waited a moment before THE PORTRAIT CHANGES answering her daughter — "Very much, dear." "Well, that's great, Mom!" She pulled her feet under her and clasped them with her hands. "That's three down and one to go!" "Shh, not so loud, dear. Here, let's go into Andy's room for a moment and then you can tell me all that I am very anxious to know." She literally pulled the nightgowned girl with her down the hall. Melly, now wide awake, could hardly wait to deliver her news. "Qh, Mother, you remember that day a week ago when I told you that Professor Seth came, and you were at Little League with Andy?" Claire nodded automatically. "Well, when he found out that you weren't here, he looked so disappointed that I invited him in to talk to me while I fixed dinner. Boy, did we have a great talk! He told me about some of the funny people in his classes, and then he mentioned that he taught you in one of his classes once. I didn't know that you had been his student!" "Not many people do, dear. That was a long time ago, during my second year in college, I believe." "But he remembered you, Mom. And was he ever glad to find that you were in his ward when he moved here to teach a year ago. Since we have so many wards here, he said that it was 'most amazing' that he should come to ours. Being the romantic soul I am, I told him that it must have been fate! He laughed at that!" Her voice bubbled. 213 MARCH 1966 "T']] bet he did," smiled Claire, and pictured Seth Howard laughing. "Well, it was then and there that 1 decided that he would make somebody a very good husband, and why shouldn't it be you? Also, he wouldn't make such a bad father, and why not mine? After all, a girl needs a father, don't you think? So, we had a nice talk, I fed him, and finally we decided that he should ask you!" "Surely you didn't suggest it, Melly?" demanded Claire, only half-horrified at the idea, and feeling years of pressure being removed. "Certainly not! Well, not entirely, anyway! So, when he came tonight, he gave me a wink before you left. That was to be our signal — it was then that I knew it would be tonight. Then I got poor Andy in my room and let him talk himself into wanting a new father. I even got out my book of names to show him that Seth meant the appointed. I told him it meant that he was appointed to take care of us." She beamed. "He could hardly argue with that. Of course, I looked it up ahead of time — Jill told me te." "Jill knows, then, Melly?' Claire's voice was anxious, and Melly sensed it. "Yes, Mom." "Dear, what did she say about it? It's very important that I know." "Yes... Il know. Well, Mom, she likes Professor Seth immensely, but she just doesn't think that at her age she could adjust to having an older man in the house." She said it all very fast then looked up at her mother 214 with large questioning eyes. "Is everything all right, Mom?" "Of course, dear. Everything will turn out for the best. It always does, you know." She said it with more optimism than she felt, however. Hugging her daughter tightly, she renounced the fear that crept into her heart. I won't let this dishearten me, she thought. We've been alone too long. "Come on, honey, you sleep in Andy's clean bed, and I'll slip a cover...." The sound of a car in the driveway interrupted her words. "You stay here, Melly, and Ill go see who it is." Halting at the door, she turned and added, ''Perhaps you can get some sleep, dear,"' although she knew that if Melly felt at all as she did, sleep was out of the question. | 4 the front room windows. She had recognized the sound of the small foreign automobile and was not surprised to see Jill walking arm in arm with Jonathan Mayfield, when she ventured a peek. Claire could hear bits of their animated conversation, and it was not hard to tell that they were happy. She smiled. Jonathan was so fine. Moving back from the door, she prepared herself to wait a moment before she would see Jill emerge. She was caught off guard, however, for the door immediately opened and two figures came in from the pleasant night air. Claire braced herself switched on a lamp. "Oh, Mom, you scared me," Jill exclaimed, holding tight to her companion's hand. "Sorry, dear,' Claire smiled. "I've just been waiting up for you." "Thanks, Mom. You're really a dear."' Turning to Jonathan, she added, "Little things like that are sure signs of love. Let's always remember that." Claire noticed the tender glance between them, and the way he squeezed her hand. She held her breath. "Mom, there's something that and I would love to tell you...." "JT... Have something that I need to tell you, too." "Yes, Mom?" "Melly told you about Professor Seth, didn't she?" "Of course, Mom, and it made me so very, very happy. And that is why it is so important that we tell you what we believe to be something of a miracle. Rather, Jon will tell you how it came about. Go ahead, dear.'' Her eyes sparkled. Claire was startled at hearing Jill use a term of endearment. She looked earnestly at Jonathan standing there beside Jill, so tall and protecting. "Mrs. Harrison, I think Jill told you that I applied for that special fellowship back. East. Well, today I received my letter of acceptance, so I'll be going back to Boston in August. But I began to think about not seeing Jill for, perhaps two years or so, and I decided, without much hesitation, that our relationship had THE PORTRAIT CHANGES become too special to sever." "T feel the same way, Mom," Jill added with feeling. "So I asked her tonight if she would be willing to go back there with me." "And I could hardly say 'no' could I, Mom, especially since I realized that I am so very much in love with him." Claire started to speak, but Jonathan spoke up vehemently, '"'We hope that we can marry a little while before we have to leave."" He took Claire's hands. "In the temple, of course." Claire felt the tears coming, and she didn't want to display them, so she turned. Jill put her hand on her mother's shoulder, The portrait on the wall flashed into Claire's mind, and she recalled quickly how things had changed since Jill's slender hand had first been placed on her shoulder. Time had passed. This was a new Jill. A more radiant Jill, who had finally found her place in life. And this was a new Claire. A wiser, lovelier Claire, who knew now what she would do. She turned and said, "We'd better have a new family picture taken before you two leave. The other one's out of date, don't you think?" They saw her tears but ignored them in their joy. Claire knew they were there, too, but in her great happiness, she ignored them, too, and was not ashamed. "I think I'll call Seth," she said. "I think he'd like to share our news." They nodded with quiet, radiant smiles as she took their hands for a moment. Then they watched her, as she walked quickly to the phone. 215 @ Thinking a short sketch of a Royal visit to our isolated home might be of interest to some of the readers of the Exponent, I forward the following. Her Majesty Queen Kapiolani, arrived here just at the close of our morning services. Her design was to reach here in time for our meeting, but on account of the illness of one of the party she was detained. Her attendants consisted of her sister Pooloku, Col. Judd, and Miss Pitman, with a number of servants, all bearing some big title pertaining to the palace household, such as cup bearer, chambermaid, steward, etc. She was making a_ tour around the Island for pleasure, and in the interest of the Hui Hoola Lahui (Relief Society). We bade them welcome in an easy manner, leaving out, no doubt, many of the court titles usually applied to people holding such positions, which appeared to have the effect of making them feel at home. At one o'clock P. M., a messenger arrived to tell Her Majesty the people were assembled, ready to receive her and hear her instructions. We all walked to the meetinghouse which was filled to overflowing, anxiously waiting her arrival; as she entered, the. People arose to their feet, the 216 Laie, Oahu, Sandwich Islands July 6, 1878 Jane Elizabeth Molen Copy of a letter published in the Woman's Exponent, August 15,1878 choir singing a song of welcome composed for the occasion. The house was nicely decorated with evergreens, with appropriate mottoes on the walls, and a beautiful crown composed of ferns just over Her Majesty's seat. The meeting being opened, she arose and read her speech, which was short but to the point, urging the people to continue in the good work of administering to the afflicted and destitute; gave some good advice in regard to the management of the society, disbursements of means, etc. Col. Judd followed, spoke of the prosperity, union and contentment of the people here; thought much credit was due to the foreign elders; after which Elders Molen and Richards, occupied a few minutes each, in support of the Queen's instructions, eulogized her in her work of charity among the people. After returning to the house the natives were permitted to shake hands with Her Majesty and say "aloha." Many of the older ones who had not entirely forgotten their ancient habits of showing deference to their nobles, approached her on their knees, or with heads almost bowed to the ground; while the more enlightened ones only showed due respect. This over, we all (the Queen's party and members of the Mission) sat down to the tables and partook of a plain but hearty dinner. The Queen is a nice looking woman, very affable and kind, but not loquacious. Her sister Pooloku is more of a lively turn, appears to enjoy a good joke and quite as ready to take as give one. Miss Pitman, who has traveled considerably in_ the United States, is well informed and quite a talker; she visited Salt Lake City not long ago, and is full of praise and admiration of that place and the people. By previous invitation, they were the guests of Brother Kaleohano, where they repaired in the evening. They felt so much at home their stay was prolonged two days. The natives flocked around them by the hundreds, and did all in their power to VISIT OF QUEEN KAPIOLANI make them comfortable. We rode up in the mountains with them, gathered ferns, and lunched under the boughs of the evergreen trees, by the side of the beautiful cool stream of water that sinks long before it reaches the parched fields below.. The Relief Society held their third Annual Festival meeting today, which was really a credit to our native sisters; they were all dressed in white and made a grand appearance in the procession. They seemed to be filled with the spirit of the gospel, and from their own earnings they feasted some two hundred persons, which is no small matter these hard times; they have done much towards administering to the poor and needy of this place.... Your sister, J. EK. Molen RETURNING MARCH Elizabeth Cottam Walker The waning winter winds that bring the scent Of all forgotten springs in an icy crest, Awaken in me haunting moods that, blent With memories, stir me from winter rest. Now on the live hearth coals | place a fog Of applewood | garnered for this day, Watch flame through gray smoke, billowing like fog, Sun-splashed and gleaming as it fades away. My heart grows eager in the apple smoke As in its pungency | seem to smell Remembered perfume of the petaled cloak Of blossoms—prelude to the apple-swell. Though waning winter winds with ice are sowed, My heart goes Apriling along the road. 217 Winnifred C. Jardine @ List-making has always been an important activity of my life. For me it clarifies thinking and streamlines actions: which jobs to do first; how to organize errands for greatest efficiency; whom and what to include on my Christmas gift list; a plan for preparing a company dinner; how to spend my money.. As a result of these many years of list-making, I've developed a priority list for my life. This has never before been put down on paper by me and yet has been referred to so often that it has become crystal clear in my mind. I advert to it especially when making decisions—and even more important, in sticking with those decisions.; This priority list has only four items, involving four specific values in the order of their importance to me: 1. Spiritual 2. Intellectual 3. Cultural 4. Material There can be no question about the number one priority, for we are told most emphatically in the Sermon on the Mount: "But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." This is the single greatest guide 218 any of us can have for making choices in our lives. Being human, we all stray from this guideline too often, and each time must learn anew that it is truly the iron rod of life. The gaining of knowledge as the number two priority has to be near the top for a people who believe that the glory of God is intelligence and that a man can be saved no faster than he gains knowledge. 'Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life,' we are told in Doctrine & Covenants 130:18-19, "it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." However, the gaining of knowledge must go hand-in-hand with seeking first the kingdom of God, in order that our knowledge be converted to intelligence and wisdom. For some, the gaining of knowledge has taken top priority even over the matter of spiritual growth, and, for them, their enlightenment becomes distorted. Jacob wrote of such a thing when he said (2 Nephi 9:28-29): "... O the vainness, and the frailties, and the foolishness of men! When they are learned they think they are wise, and they hearken not unto the counsel of God, for they set it aside, supposing they know of themselves, wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness and it profiteth them not. And they shall perish. But to be learned is good if they hearken unto the counsels of God." The wise increase of knowledge is more than a matter of intellect; it is also an attitude. When accompanied by humility and a love of God, it becomes a great instrument for good upon the earth, and a joy, we are told, in the life hereafter. Third on my priority list are the cultural things of life—and the development and enjoyment of talents, good music, drama and dance, painting and drawing and sculpture, fine poetry and prose, delicate handwork and skilled craftsmanship. I think often about the parable of the talents and choose to interpret it literally as we understand the word talent—the natural endowments we each possess. It's a responsibility and a privilege to seek out and enrich the talents we possess and to enjoy the fruits of the talents of others. Again, however, there are those who place this first on their priority lists, forgetting to temper it with the refinement and humility and virtue that come with spiritual growth. Taken out of its proper place, this value can become twisted and_ill-proportioned and can even become a vehicle for evil. Last of all on my list of priorities come the material things of life, a discipline difficult to stay with in this day of wealth and materialism. The above-menMY PRIORITY LIST tioned parable of the talents, but giving the word "talent" the Hebrew meaning of money value, could be used to support the seeking of material goods. And yet more strongly comes again the counsel delivered in the Sermon on the Mount: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not _ break through nor, steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Everyone would like worldly wealth—new cars, bigger homes, beautiful clothes, and plentiful food. And there are good and fine people who have attained them. But these things must be fitted into their proper place, be sought only in their proper time, and be valued only in proper relation to other greater values. When we have reached the ends of our lives upon this earth and turn back to reckon with all we have done, the joy and delight of our accomplishments will lie, I feel, in direct proportion to this priority list. Our truly spiritual achievements will bring us the greatest joy; the knowledge we have gained in righteousness will come close on its heels; the richness of living through the enjoyment of beautiful work and the development of our own talents will surely bring a warm glow of gratification. But at this point in our lives it's quite likely that any material progress we may have made will deliver little or no sense of satisfaction. The mere possession of material goods will have been its own reward. 219 Woes " X =] t Mu a - rd Chapter 3 Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes that, in spite of many material blessings enjoyed by the family, there is a need for spirituality and for religious training. Rex agrees to permit Jennie and the children to become active in the Church for a trial period of one year. 220 Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart @ In the days that passed, Jennie would think ruefully of the pictures she had conjured up that night. She saw herself and the children sitting demurely in Sunday School or sacrament meeting and being good. Somehow, their quiet sitting was to project them into a problemless world. It was a nice dream but had no basis in fact. On the following Monday evening, the bishop and a counselor called to ask her to take over - the Trekker class in Primary. Rex, who was courteous and curious, grinned at her over the bishop's head. In his grin was amusement and challenge. "T would be very happy to take the Trekker class," said Jennie, her chin high. "Trickers?" Rex teased her in the days that followed. '"Tricker Treckers" was his favorite. Jennie wasn't to start her teaching until a week from Wednesday; but she took Lance, Sabra, and Lora over to enroll them. The first snow of the year had fallen. The ground showed bleakly through the thin layer of white. Muddy snowmen and weedy forts were everywhere present. Jennie made her way into the meetinghouse, deposited her children in the chapel among the various teachers, and went blithely off to do her grocery shopping. She carried with her the idyllic picture of all the angelic faces of the children, uplifted, singing the "Crusader's Hymn". It warmed her just to think about them. Ah, Dad, and you would be ' its mark.. So pleased with all of it, she thought, your grandchildren so neatly scrubbed and _ starched, singing with the rest of them. When she returned later to take them home, the chapel was empty. She went in search of the various classrooms where the children might be detained. Walking softly down a long, tiled corridor, she was halted by the sound of hysterical weeping. A grown woman, by the sound of it. "It's bad enough," the voice was crying, "to try to teach them above their noise... But to be snowballed after class!" Jennie stopped short, an ominous foreboding taking place of her happy anticipation. There was another voice, the Primary president's probably, in soft, dismayed concern. Jennie went slowly down the corridor. She ran head on into Sister Phillips, the president, who was coming slowly down an intersecting hallway. Jennie looked questioningly into the weary, gentle face. Sister Phillips bit her lip. "Was she...?" Jennie hes- _ itated, "was it the Trekker class who snowballed her?" "I'm afraid so," said Sister Phillips. She straightened the _armful of flannel-board figures. "Sometimes small boys can't tell | the difference between a teacher and one of themselves... Some- _ times the snowball goes beyond. And sometimes," she looked Jennie directly in the eye, "sometimes they do it on _ purpose." Jennie swallowed. "I just wondered," she said, angry at herself for not resigning here and now. Sister Phillips did not plead. "If it were easy to be a teacher, WHEAT FOR THE WISE anyone could do it. You have well-behaved children, Sister Starr. It must have taken training." WENNIE lowered her head. "It's easy to train someone you love...."' She held back the words. She was already filled with doubt and antagonism. She had a quick temper. With one's own children, there was always the final parental prerogative of a swift punishment, a banishment to the bathroom... "and don't come out until: you've changed your disposition!" But with a stranger's children? How did one begin? She said it aloud. "How do you enforce discipline?" "We love them and_ teach them," said Sister Phillips quietly, "and then wait for the teaching to grow." She rearranged the flannel-board figures. She's waiting for me to say I've changed my mind, Jennie thought. She's expecting me to renege. It's my hair. I look frivolous. She took a deep breath. "T'll do my very best." "Thank you," said Sister Phillips and let out an explosive breath of relief. They laughed in mutual understanding. I love her, Jennie decided. I really do. The next Wednesday, Jennie came armed with a lesson she had practiced every day, visual aids in precise order, and a stern set to her chin. She sat with the Trekkers on the next to the last row. The Trekkers were ten. They were squirmy; they had come lately from school; and the smell of peanut butter and gymnasium and sneakers made Jennie dizzy. The red-haired boy, by whom 22) MARCH 1966 she sat, squirmed and _ twisted, dismayed at finding himself in such close proximity to authority. Jennie smiled at him in what she hoped was a friendly way, but he studied her lifted cheek muscles without enthusiasm. His companions eyed her covertly. Their down-turned thumbs and whispered groans did not reassure her. DurING singing practice, she confiscated one hamster and a sling shot. She put the hamster in her purse, hoping it would have air enough, and the sling shot in her coat pocket. When they marched to their classes, she marched behind them. The boys were fighting over the chairs. Everyone wanted to sit on the back row. Jennie began with the flannelboard. "You didn't call the roll," said the red-haired boy sternly. "You're supposed to call our names first." Jennie, before she realized her mistake, dropped the flannelboard and picked up the roll book. After a moment she realized that the boys were answering to any name they chose. The lesson could not be heard above the din. Jennie labored in the jungle of their laughter and their tumult. She tried to bring the pioneers through the thick grasses of their unconcern and felt as if she, alone, had brought the entire covered-wagon contingent across the plains. It ended at last. She retrieved the red-haired boy's hamster from her purse and the sling from her pocket. She said the closing prayer herself, and then the class leaped out from the room like 222 grasshoppers from a_ burning field. Jennie stood alone in the empty classroom, impregnated now with the boy smell of peanut butter, sneaker, and gym. She picked up her things and went in search of Sister Phillips. Sister Phillips was sitting alone in the chapel. She was on the front row, and she looked up as Jennie approached her. Does she have to look that way? Jennie thought. Does she have to look brave and alone and sort of marching-along-army... Waiting for the deserters to catch up? "How did it go?" Sister Phillips asked softly. "Just fine," Jennie found herself saying brightly. "But I think next week I'll try a slightly different approach." "You are free to experiment," said Sister Phillips and smiled. She put her hand in her pocket and pulled out a wriggling furry object. "I think it is Billy's other hamster. I thought he had but the one... Or I should most certainly have examined him further." "T didn't mind," said Jennie, "not the hamster." Dinner that night, was also an ordeal. Rex had come home in a joyful mood. "How about a movie?" She leaned on the counter. "Look... If I can get through this next hour without folding, T'll be grateful." He whistled. "That bad, eh?" "It's just because I'm no teacher," she said defensively. He shrugged. "Throw it back to them. You don't have to do i" He eyed her questioningly. "I , roses... Met Lorna on the street today. She said you've had to give up the club to do this Primary bit." Sabra came floating in. "I have made a new dance," she said. '""Watch me." She danced about the kitchen in leaps and sallies and exquisite turnings that brought Jennie's heart to her throat. "What is it?" Jennie asked. "Tt's my thought of the pioneer 'women," said Sabra.... "Now this part is Nauvoo... See I am: low and sorrowing... And now I am burying my little brother. And now I am leaping on the plains because it is spring....: and now I see the Valley and at first I am sorry, because it is so empty... But then I know what it will be soon.... All filled with. So I plant... And all covered with fields of wheat... _ so I sow and I sing because I am _ happy." Jennie turned back to the oven and the broiling steaks. I'm definitely no teacher, she thought, WHEAT FOR THE WISE not one of my boys went home thinking about pioneers. They probably don't remember a word I said. "Do you like your teacher?" she asked Sabra. "Oh, yes." Then Sabra came close and whispered in her light voice, "I'll fast for you next Wednesday. I truly will. We learned about fasting today. You go without food and water... And get what you ask for...." "It isn't so simple," Jennie cried in protest. "Maybe it is,'" said Sabra with a sideways glance.... ""We don't know yet... But maybe it is." Sabra went out of the kitchen in her quiet, preoccupied way. "She's not like anyone I ever knew," Rex said, ''sometimes she doesn't seem real." Jennie had the same feeling, as if Sabra knew things of which the rest of them were completely unaware. Nor was dinner a happy affair. They sat down to the steaks which were overdone, to the hastily prepared salad, and the frozen vegetables, which Rex frowned upon. He said, "The stock market has been behaving like a_ onearmed paper hanger with hives." He began to eat his steak. Lance looked at him curiously, "How come we don't bless the food in our house... Like other people?" There was a long silence. Jennie could feel Rex counting to ten. She watched his flush subside. She did not answer Lance, not knowing how. But Rex glared at his son. "If you're so eager to have us do it, go ahead." 223 MARCH 1966 Lance said stubbornly, "TI will. They showed us how in Primary." He made a brief thanksgiving for the food and dug into his potato. "We sure should have done that before." "Ves," said Lora emphatically, "we sure should have." Jennie touched Rex's hand. She felt him relax. He met her eye to eye. "One year," he said through his teeth, "one small year." But Jennie wondered if he would be able to take even that one year. It was as if she had unwittingly brought into the house a radioactive stone and everyone around was beginning to react furiously. The house seemed steaming with new ideas and demands. But when the children were in bed, she lit the fire in the fireplace in the family room. She made a cold steak sandwich for Rex and poured a glass of milk. He hadn't eaten much dinner. She took them in to him and Rex turned off the television and sat back to eat. Jennie said cautiously, "It isn't the end of the world to say a blessing on the food.... Lots of people do." "It's not that," Rex admitted. "T don't mind blessing the food. It just gets me that my son brings it up in that way." She sat back on the hassock and considered. "It made me feel strange, too," she said, "'and hostile to the idea. I wonder if it makes us feel guilty?" Rex laughed and took another 224 bite of his sandwich. "I rather think that's it. At least we're in the parade. All parents, in our day, are made to feel guilty about something or other. Writers stay up nights to think up new ways to keep us swimming in this gloomy soup." Jennie laughed, too, but without mirth. "If you have it bad, you ought to be a mother. To be a mother nowadays is to have a bounty on your head." Rex stretched. "Right. Some people use the word mother like doctors use the term virus." Jennie filched one of his potato chips. She pulled a cushion from the couch to the floor and leaned against his knee. "Do you believe in God?" "Et tu? Of course, I do." "Well then, we should thank him for our food. Right?" "Right." She cradled his palm against her cheek. "Well, then, we have been guilty." He said soberly, "Whatever church we join... We'll bless the food." She sat up sharply. What do you mean?" He looked at her with stern, considering eyes. '"'"My family is the most important thing in my life. I'm not going to let them become involved in anything on someone else's say-so. I'm going to investigate every religion on the face of the earth. When I find one that is right to me...... That's id She had no words for argument. They sat in silence watching the dying fire. (To be continued) "Rex? ON THE MOUNTAIN Melba S. Payne _- In my youth | well remember, When there was no need to roam, How | thought the world revolved - Around my peaceful valley home. Close beside gigantic mountains, Solid grandeur pointing high; ~. Bearing stately pines and aspens Etched against the eastern sky. "On the mountains,'' words familiar, Part of living in our town; Going up for coal or cattle, Going up, or coming down. Before the '"'Powered Buggies' found us, = Teams of horses, plodding slow, a Delivered us in rumbling wagons Wherever we should choose to go. To the dairy in the glen, Through the toll gate by the creek, Stopping by the Beaver Dam To gaze upon a mountain peak. Then to find our white-topped sheep camp Nestled in the shade of trees. Sour-dough bread and fresh, fried mutton— A cheerful herder cooked us these. These are memories of my mountains Close beside my valley home, And | still go on the mountains - When I feel a need to roam. TODAY IS MINE Helen A. Nielsen Today is here. It is mine to enjoy. This is my most recent gift from a loving Father, and I shall cherish it. Today there may be rain or sunshine; there may be clouds or snow and wind, but, in this day, there are twenty-four hours for me to beautify or tarnish as I see fit. Perhaps I have mortgaged much of this day for washing, ironing, cleaning, and performing tasks. Although my hands are busy, my thoughts need not stay in a pan of soapsuds. I have twenty-four hours in which to think beautiful and constructive thoughts, or I can grovel in self-pity or nourish stray bits of resentment left over from some unhappy moment. Dear God, may I spend this day as I should. May I have a song in my heart, and may I know the exhilaration of learning something new. May I go the extra mile to cheer and to serve. May I know the joy of some challenge met and conquered. May I make - this a star-studded day embellished with the good and the beautiful. May the tomorrows be happier and more meaningful because of the things I put into these hours. May I account proudly to my Maker for each second of this day. And may I acknowledge thee, O God, as the Creator of all that is good. 225 } FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Timpanogos Stake (Utah), Pleasant Grove Seventh Ward "Near and Far'' Bazaar November 5, 1965 Left to right: Leatha Carson, stake theology class leader: Margaret Jacobs. Ward theology class leader; Mavis Hamilton, Second Counselor, Pleasant Grove Seventh Ward Relief Society. Marvel A. Smith, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of 'Near and Far' was developed in the bazaar, with practically all of the ward members participating in the fun. Booths were decorated, and the sisters were costumed to represent the following countries: Ireland (for sale of linens and gifts); France (beauty needs and flower arrangements); Germany (the candy shop); Holland (the bakery, with homemade cakes, pies, bread, and cookies); Japan (the fish pond, which was a favorite with the children); Mexico (the tables were decorated to represent this country, and tamales, meat pies, chili, hot dogs, hamburgers, and steamed puddings were sold). "Girls in different native costumes entertained with dances on the stage every fifteen minutes. A nursery was maintained and cartoons were shown." Officers of the Pleasant Grove Seventh Ward Relief Society are: LaPreal Lundgren, President; Dora Hales, First Counselor; Mavis Hamilton, Second Counselor; and Janet Parry, Secretary-Treasurer. Bountiful South Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert "Our Society In Song" September 24, 1965 Eulala H. Butters, President, Bountiful South Stake Relief Society, reports: "A beautiful evening of song was presented, with the theme '... And the night will be filled with the sound of music, and your cares will float away.' Barbara Peterson was the director, with Ruth Christensen and Carolyn Talbot as accompanists. The script for the concert was written by Eleanor Hoaglund, with Elaine McKay as narrator. The combined voices of sixty-five women of our ten-ward stake presented this lovely program as a special tribute to the visiting teachers, their husbands, and friends. It was the culmination of an afternoon of a 'Festival of Arts' in which each of the wards depicted in display, arts and crafts, and all types of handiwork. Coy Tyson, stake work meeting leader, and Edith Sharp, Work Counselor, were in charge of this affair. "After the program everyone was invited into the cultural hall for refreshments. We were delighted with the success of this lovely day, and with the attendance of over 500 people." 226 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents or mission Relief Society presidents or supervisors, and should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. See regulations governing the submittal of Notes From the Field in the November 1964 issue of the Magazine, page 847. MARCH 1966 North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Display Featured at Opening Social September 2, 1965 May Wilding, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "A presentation 'The Quest' was written and produced by social science class leader Kathryn K. Price, chorister Esther C. Mathews, and Magazine representative Nellie C. Bate. The cast included: Gayle W. Farr, Rosaline Gold, Eliza Teeples, and LaDean R. Marshall. The dramatization related the experiences of a Relief Society president and an inactive sister. Sister Gold, who had portrayed the inactive sister, later bore her own testimony as to how she had joined the Church through activity in Relief Society. Beautiful organ music was played throughout the presentation by organist Sylvia H. Thompson. Sister Thompson and Marjorie Wood were in charge of the display, which featured a mannequin holding gold ribbons which extended to each of the seven small tables. " 'Self-fulfillment Through Relief Society,' which was the theme of our opening social, will continue to be stressed by short talks and testimonies at leadership meetings throughout the year, as we work toward our goal: to bring the blessings of Relief Society into the lives of all the sisters in our stake." Lost River Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Patriotic Concert and Flower Show August 17, 1965 Front row, at right, in black dress: chorister Loretta Jensen; at Sister Jensen's right: Marilyn King, organist. Second row, left to right: Mary B. Davies, President; Leona Anderson, First Counselor; Mary W. Kotter, Second Counselor. Sister Davies reports that the Singing Mothers of Lost River Stake also sang at two sessions of stake conference in May 1965. Ricks College Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Officers at "Show and Share" Christmas Fair, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Deanne Moore, organist; Jessie P. Morrell, First Counselor; Lisle L. Andrus, President; Leta Skoy, Second Counselor; Elsie R. Lewis, Secretary. Back row, standing, left to right: Lasca Stucki, social science class leader; Eunice Williams, Magazine representative; Ruth Biddulph, literature class leader; Pamela Lehto, chorister; Lorna Tibbits, work meeting leader; Dorothy McIntyre; Evelyn Graham, theology class leader; Phyllis Wood, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Andrus reports that the officers and members of the newly organized Ricks College Stake are enthusiastic about Relief Society work. Their "Show and Share" Christmas Fair was a well-planned and successful event. The traditional Christmas colors red and green were carried out in the decorations. The "Christmas Rose" tree was covered with roses and red lights. Displays were presented by each of the wards, including toys, cookery, aprons, table, settings, gift wrapping, inexpensive gifts, and stories for Christmas. Posters made by the stake board portrayed the work done in each department of Relief Society. A program was presented twice during the afternoon, consisting of Christmas music by the Singing Sisters, a trio, and a reading. The refreshment tables were decorated with glass figurines, and a bowl of cranberry punch was placed at each end of the tables. Eight individual tables, serving four each, were covered with green net over a green cloth, and centered with a candle circled by roses. Each guest was presented with a booklet containing the program, recipes, and directions for making the articles displayed. 228 627 A13IDoS 4amsay HONOYHL 4AN3WT1AINs-4713aS MARCH 1966 Argentine Mission Relief Society Seminar Caseros, Argentina, October 23, 1965 Left to right: Maria Abera, Education Counselor, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Nalida Turner, Secretary-Treasurer; Mafalda Guinaldo, Work Counselor; Herta Mellor, President, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Nadia Mirosnikov, Secretary-Treasurer, Central District; Nedra H. Strong, Supervisor, Argentine Mission Relief Society; Elena Mancini, President, LaPlata District; Angela Guiliani, President, Buenos Aires District; Estella Angelora, Education Counselor, Buenos Aires District; Maria Flores, Work Counselor, Buenos Aires District; Federico Wolgast, Councilman, LaPlata District; Carmen Cuneo, Secretary-Treasurer, Buenos Aires District. Sister Strong reports: '""The seminar was held for the purpose of presenting the program for the summer work meetings. The seminar was prepared by the mission Relief Society board and the district boards. Present were representatives of the twenty-three branches involved. Numerous representatives of the Priesthood were present to supervise and support. "Many demonstrations were given. Dr. Augustin Minotti, Jr. Gave a lecture and demonstration on first aid and common illnesses; Mafalda Guinaldo outlined and demonstrated the latest methods of the art of dressmaking. Nancy Briscoe demonstrated the art of making paper flowers for bazaars, children's parties, Christmas, and other festive occasions. A demonstration was given on Japanese flower arrangement. Sister Martinez from Quilmes demonstrated the making of feather flowers. Sister Strong and Elder Kraig Dahl showed how to make rolls and marshmallows. All of the demonstrations were carefully recorded, and a printed manual was given to each sister present. "The same seminar was held the following weeks in Rosario and Mar del Plata, with the women of these areas participating. Each day the sisters here in Argentina are learning to love and appreciate the great organization of Relief Society more." Calgary Stake (Alberta, Canada) Bazaar November 6, 1965 Left to right: Nedra Leavitt; Barbara Walker, luncheon chairman; Gwen Haycock, Second Counselor; Joy Lee Matheny, advertising chairman; Naida Walton, President, Calgary Stake Relief Society; Rita Holt, luncheon committee member; Ruby Hornberger, First Counselor; Hallie Logan, convenor and pricing committee chairman; Bernice Nelson, director of Singing Mothers; Mary Platt, head of cashiers; Louella Payne, decorating; Janet Merrill, sales personnel; Glenna Fowler, displays; Marion Levant, bake table. Sister Walton reports: "The stake center was a delightful setting for the bazaar, where eleven wards and two branches combined for their first stake bazaar. Decorations for this outstanding event featured a dropped ceiling in white, dotted with ice-blue snowflakes, with overhanging winter scenes of snow-crested Christmas trees, and snowmen and skaters on an artificial rink. A winter scene done in pastels by Marion Barker completely covered the largest wall of the cultural hall, to complete the breathtaking scene. "Over 3,000 bazaar articles were attractively displayed, and included such items as kitchen aprons, children's clothing, doll clothes, toys, pillows, sleepwear, Christmas novelties, knitted articles, Christmas puddings and mincemeat, Chinese food, and homemade chocolates. The bake table was well supported and was a main feature of the bazaar. A fifty-voice Singing Mothers chorus rendered two special selections during the afternoon. A delicious luncheon was served. Over 1900 people attended the bazaar; approximately 1200 of these were nonmember friends. During the afternoon the full-time missionaries showed the film 'Man's Search for Happiness.' "The final proceeds from the bazaar were tabulated on the basis of the number of articles made by each ward. Each item was tagged, showing the name of the ward and the price of the article, then, as each article was sold, the cashier removed the tag. This information was used in the distribution of the money to the wards." 230 Alaskan-Canadian Mission, Cariboo District Singing Mothers Present Music for District Conference Fort St. James, British Columbia, Canada October 17, 1965 Patricia Conklin, the chorister, stands at far left in the front row: Julia Gwilliam, organist, and district Relief Society president, stands second row at far right. Leola C. Durrant, Supervisor, Alaskan-Canadian Mission, reports: "The conference was held in the new chapel at Fort St. James, British Columbia. The Singing Mothers represent Williams Lake, Quesnel, Prince George, Vanderhoof, and Fort St. James Branches, with members living as far apart as three hundred miles." 231 GROWING ACCUSTOMED Kathryn Kay What happens to the magic Of the "'first times'"' After "the first'' becomes simply ''once more''? What happens when the thrill of all the first times Becomes only a '"'something-we-have-done-before''? Perhaps there's also magic in just placing Our steps in paths where they are used to go, An awe can come with the familiar tracing Of lips upon lips they have grown to know, Time lets a quiet smile replace light laughter. And as we go once more down ways we've known, We learn that all the times that follow after Acquire a certain magic all their own! WHILE THEY LAST Teaching Aids from BYU Education Weeks 1965,' « UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE ' by Ernest L. Olson Four Lectures: |. Stories Which Show the Importance of Attitude ll. Stories and Poems on Good and Evil ltl. Stories, Poems, and an Essay on the Place of Suffering in Life IV. Stories, Poems, and an Essay on Suffering and on Facing Death PRICE $1.00 AND DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 by Roy W. Doxey PRICE $1.50 EXTENSION PUBLICATIONS Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601 Please send me............ Copies of UNDERSTANDING AND ENJOYING LITERATURE Please send me............ Copies of DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS Sections 88 through 92 For each publication ordered, include $.10 for postage. Enclosed is a check or money order for $ _._......._.--...-.--..- Name............... Cose. Eee ee, aaa eee 232 Dail PL Aaa ae Lesson Department Pe A ne. Se eT en) oS ns ram er ne WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Simplify the Job For Second Meeting, June 1966 In the Southern Hemisphere, for November 1966 Objective: To show how principles of work simplification can save time and contribute to personal and family satisfactions. "Organize yourselves; prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God" (D&C 88:119). INTRODUCTION Emphasized in previous discussions on creative homemaking has been the importance of organization and scheduling of housekeeping activities to fit the individual family. Attacking the specific job now becomes paramount. ANALYZE THE JOB How efficient are you? Efficiency experts have determined that often a poor housekeeper works much longer and harder than a good housekeeper because she fails to organize the job and her time. Many homemakers are inefficient and are not aware of it. Perhaps they are inefficient in a portion of a task but not in the entire procedure, or, perhaps, they "sail through' some jobs beautifully and get "bogged down" with others. How about following the pattern of business and industry and doing a' job analysis? You might discover that you can do the job better in much less time. Remember, to be more efficient also means that the job performance is consistent with your standards, your values, and goals. Do not underrate or overrate yourself. Be as objective as possible in order to discover the areas in which you can improve and those with which you should be satisfied. Directions: As you read each of the following statements, ask yourself honestly, "How does this apply to me?" The five ratings which you will use are: A-always; U-usually; O-oc- 233 MARCH 1966 casionally; S-seldom; N-never. Just before each number, write the letter that stands for the rating you can give yourself on that question. (Note to discussion leader: Copies of the Job Analysis Rating Chart could be given to each class member for individual checking, or paper could be passed out, the ratings listed on the chalkboard, and the leader could quickly read each question as the members rate themselves. A brief discussion could follow.) TO DO AND THINK ABOUT JOB ANALYSIS RATING CHART (Based on the principles—eliminate, combine, rearrange, simplify) —_. 1. Do you ask yourself if the job isnecessary? Example: Careful hanging and folding of laundry will eliminate some ironing. — 2. Do you have a clear. Understanding of the way the job is to be done? Example: It is necessary when trying a new recipe to follow directions exactly. It may be wise to make notes of the correct way to do a job that only needs doing once or twice a year; such as, seasonal care of clothing; protecting woolens and putting cottons away clean. This question is pertinent in instructing the family. —— 3. Do you determine if each step is necessary? Example: It may be more satisfactory to drain dishes, rather than to wipe them. —— 4. Do you combine one step with another part of the job, when feasible? Example: Lightly soiled linoleum may be cleaned and waxed in the same operation with one of the new liquid floor preparations. —— 5. Do you rearrange the order of the steps for greater efficiency? Example: "One trip bed-making'—making the bed in one "U" pattern around the bed. ——.6. Are you motion-minded and do you form little routines for jobs in which repetition is involved? Example: Use a sys- 234 tem in folding a pile of towels _— or in peeling a pan of potatoes. —— 7. Do you try to use both hands _ effectively? Example: A righthanded person does _ dishes most efficiently by working from right to left. She holds the dish in her left hand, wash- © ing it with the right, and places the dish in the dish drain to the left without changing hands. — 8. Do you try to work with © fewer smooth motions, rather than many fast, jerky motions? Example: In ironing a shirt, greater efficiency is achieved by the fewest possible strokes, making the pressure of the iron even. Fast, jerky motions put wrinkles in the shirt. —— 9. Do you try to work at a pace i which is best for you and the job? Example: Too fast dusting may leave as much dust on the table as on the cloth. 10. Do you train yourself to do all there is to do at one place at one time, or all of one step | before proceeding to the next step? Example: While you are at the refrigerator, remove all items needed. —_11. Do you dovetail your work? Example: While waiting for the potatoes to cook, clean up your sink. —12. Do you consolidate your work when possible? Example: While you are making a casserole for dinner, make an extra one for the freezer; market less often but buy for a longer period of time. __13. Do you attack a big or difficult job when you are at the peak of your energy, rather than when you are weary? Example: Put in a "tricky" hem on a dress early in the day when you are fresh, rather than after dinner. ——_14. Do you conserve your energy by sitting to do some tasks? Example: Sit at an adjustable ironing board while ironing; use a lap board for some types of food preparation. If you rated "always" and "usually" most of the time, you are doing well. ij If you rate chiefly in the "seldom" and "never" categories, a change is in order. TAKE TIME TO MAKE TIME Whenever a factory engineer attempts to help the output in less time, he first observes carefully what is being done, makes notes and asks questions. Do not be afraid to use the "questioning method. Your answers should be based upon family satisfactions, of course. SUMMARY Years ago, Ellen H. Richards, one of the early pioneers of homemaking education in the public schools, admonished women to control the material things about them, leaving time and energy to make life for their families gracious, worthwhile, and enjoyable. Time is a precious commodity. Let us conserve it. TO DISCUSS Name some household tasks which you wish to do a certain LESSON DEPARTMENT way, even though they consume more time. State your reasons. (A case in point might be careful and conventional setting of the table becayse you feel the aesthetic satisfactions outweigh the extra work.) TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Check the following items and determine if they would add to your kitchen efficiency: 1. Locate equipment at point of first use rather than all like equipment in one place. A kettle requiring water would be located near the sink, its lid near the range. 2. Place supplies and small equipment within sight and reach. You may need to use step shelves, half shelves, racks on cupboard doors, and vertical dividers. 3.. Locate items according to frequency of use. 4. Duplicate some items used in more than one location such as measuring cups at both sink and mixing center. Certain jobs seem to steal away your twenty-four hours a day. Select your worst offender (job), apply the questioning method, and in the succeeding weeks try to conquer the problem. MY MOTHER'S COUNTRY Christie Lund Coles. | recall her speaking of Tivoli, And the cobblestone streets where her youth ran; The forests with their spires and ferny leaves; The ocean's roaring and its foam-white span; The low, thatched roofs on cottages; Bakeries with their warm and spicy scent. | may not see this land of water, trees, But through her | keep it rich and innocent. 235 Cardston and Idaho Falls June 17, 1966 Time for those who wish to go to temples Hawaiian Lei Day Tour April 23 — May 8 Northwest Tour June 25 — July 2 Hill Cumorah Tours July 1966 Summer Paradise Hawaiian Tour July 23 Black Hills Passion Play Tour August 21 New England—Canadian Fall Tour September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Thank You for your patronage and your fine friendship over the years We have ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFTS: Plastic Grapes and other Plastic Casting Supplies Feather Flowers Ribbon Flowers Satin Wrapped Fruit, etc. And ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Mosaics Aluminum Trays Copper Tooling Basketry, etc. Send 25c for catalog and also receive our newest book "Egg Carton Party Favors" Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 359-5821 COOK ELECTRIC Pots and pans stay '"'white glove"' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 236 FOR A NEW STEPDAUGHTER Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn How lovely and rare And cherished the more Because of the years We did not share, And now on the threshold Of womanhood, A daughter new Is mine to enfold. Joy unforeseen— To celebrate with her The first birthday At seventeen! Plan a Murdock Tour Now! The following personally-escorted, all-expense-paid tours all include the highest quality carriers and accommodations at surprisingly low cost: 1 L. D. S. Temples Tour (Oakland, L. A., St. George, Manti) Hawaii Tour European Highlights Temples & Lake Louise (Cardston, Idaho, Logan) Scandinavian Vikings Tour Hiil Cumorah Pageant Tour Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 9 Yellowstone, Passion Play Mt. Rushmore 10 Hawaii Tour wn OnNOW MURDOCK TRAVEL BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society MagaZine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below it bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... -90 Zone 3...........60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4... 65 Zone 8......... 1.20 Zone 5 ww ja DESERET FREWS PRESS 11 days Leaves April 18th 12 days Leaves May 14th 21 days Leaves June 9th 12 days (bus) Leaves July 11th 21 days Leaves July 12th 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 15th 8 days (air) Leaves July 26th 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 29th 8 days Leaves August 13th 10 days Leaves September 1 Oth Murdock Travel Inc., 14 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send information on tour no. COSC HOHHRSEHOSTESHEEOCOCOESE SPRINGTIME IN FLORIDA April TEMPLE TOUR April 18, 1966 HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way April 27, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways Canadian and New England States Tour September a al Alaska Pageant Tours Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 382-8981 — 467-5763 — 485-2444 237 238 NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY... Even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At last—a new kind of hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and smoking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk" drinkers and smokers are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day vou enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. You do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums for those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten life. They're now one of America's leading health problems — a prime cause of the high premium rates most hospitalization policies charge. Our rates are based on your superior health, as a non-drinker and non-smoker. The new American Temperance Hospitalization Plan can offer you unbelievably low rates because we do not accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Also, your premiums can never be raised because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite close comparison with any other plan. Actually, no other is like ours. But compare rates. See what you save. MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully. Ask your mintster, lau'yer and doctor to examine it. Be sure it provides exactly what we say it does. Then, if for any reason at all you are not 100%, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately iged your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars... You risk nothing. READ YOUR AMERICAN 239 TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, from the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any hospital in the world. We pay in addition to any other insurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. 2. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, except pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization caused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything else vou're fully protected—at amazingly low rates! 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident (as described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for accidental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one foot. Or sight of one eye. Or $6000 cash for loss of both eves, both hands. Or both feet. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pay Monthly $320 $590 Pay Yearly $38 $59 Each adult 19-59 pays Each adult 60-69 pays a Each adult 70-100 pays a | 9 and under pays $2 so $28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! Pe coe R. S. AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT) | Street of RDO x t County State Zip TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE I7''S TOO LATE. _ 5091 APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS FoR AT-100 0c Age.. Date of Birth Beneficiary 1 also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below Month Day Year l Cupation Height Weight RelatiONS D eeneenpeeneen NAME AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY BIRTH DATE al alls To the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members listed above in good health and free from any physical impairment, or disease? Yes) Not) To the best of your knowledge, have you or any member above listed had medical advice or treatment, or have you or they been advised to have a surgical operation in the fast Gate, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered Date: Signed: X Mait tive application math AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., ~ Weither | nor any person listed above uses tobacco or alcoholic beverages, and | hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions Originating prior to its effective date, and that the policy is issued solely and entirely in feliance upon the written answers to the above questions. BOX 131, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS City five years? Yes () No)! F so, please give detaris stating person affected, cause, | I 94 93 Mrs. Eliza Jane Wilcox Sparks Arcadia, California Mrs. Margaret Elizabeth Schutt Gordon San Francisco, California Mrs. Hattie Bushnell Foster Belleville, Ontario, Canada Mrs. Mary Lou Farr Driver San Diego, California Mrs. Florence Dix Purdy Ogden, Utah Mrs. Ellen England Miller Bakersfield, California Dr. Harriet Bennett Hillings Santa Barbara, California Mrs. Elizabeth Adelaide Wakefield Wortley Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, Canada Mrs. Charlotte Wilson Nichols Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Brockbank North Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hattie L. Merrill Funk Oasis, Utah Mrs. Martha Vance Fowles Fairview, Utah Mrs. Mary Smith Fillmore, Utah 240 Mrs. Edith Maude Ellerby Langlois Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Delilah Larsen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Esther Openshaw Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Annie Astle Reiche Alameda, California Mrs. Lola Peppers Clevenger Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lena tsabella Durham McGregor) Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Fulson Hatch Woods Cross, Utah Mrs. Seffa Anderson Davis Henefer, Utah Mrs. Matilda Sarepta Jolley Ahistrom Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Burgener Carlile Heber, Utah Mrs. Betty Selena Boyce Walker Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Lettie May Saunders Taylor Ferrin Ogden, Utah Mrs. Caroline Holmlund Peterson Tooele, Utah Mrs. Nada Kay Mona, Utah Mrs. Christina Fackrell Brunson Salt Lake City, Utah | | | | Especially recommended for. é, o, C2 eo Or ate 'ewate ORE J gL } X OF FOOD AND THOUGHT by Florence S. Pinnock Here is a book that will enchant every woman. Not only does it contain many mouth-watering recipes for delicious foods, but also shows you the recipe for a happy home. This will be your month-by-month guide to more effective service to your family. SUGAR 'N SPICE by Daryl V. Hoole and Donette V. Ockey Formerly entitled "A Spoonful of Sugar" this helpful book wili provide you with much useful advice on many aspects of dealing with children. Books such as this give you new insight into your task as a mother. T Deseret B Book | 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ORDER NOW Utah. 84111 residents of Utah will include as:: Plse snd me... Copiesot OF MAR x Rages of Call. Wh FOOD AND THOUCHT - Store at a pee a in Orange should add 4% Calif. Tax. SUGAR 'N SPICE $3.95 each me. MMIII <2... -...-..---cco-cccoeccccccenseceeccsecsccccncecccececcenccceccreseccevectonsenstencorecssseceececsessseene MUCIEGSS _....----..--.-..---22ceoceecececenceececcecececeeccescenceceeececseceeucerseeueceserecseenesseesseeeecssese anna c sce cneneccneeeeneneenees Sa: ee yh) March Relief Society Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Please send me........ Copies of Enclosed is a check/money order for the total cost of my purchase; OR, I have an account..., bill Will you be ready when he is? MISSION OTIMATOR PLAN! Latter-day Saint families have been advised repeatedly to build a missionary fund for their children. Yet, despite good intentions — many of us save the "put'ntake" method — we put some in; take some out, and end up about where we started. —— Call your Beneficial Life man about this plan — soon, or mail the coupon below. Ee i ie i i i a? BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. — Beneficial Life Building — Salt Lake City, Utah _] Yes, I'd like to know more about your new "'Mission; Motivator" Plan.: NAME Street or RED CIT' STATE.. ZIP CODE Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah The Beneficial Life Mission Motivator Plan makes your savings systematic and sure. It gives you these advantages: e@ Reminds you to save regularly. © Guarantees that the money will be available when the call comes — if the plan is fulfilled. © Has paid-up options in case the plan can't be continued. © Provides flexibility to suit your income and needs. E If Dad should not live to complete the plan we pav premium automatically. © Pays Mission funds either in monthly allotment checks or as a lump sum. BENEFICIAL LIFE ace Ce) Company Now over 600 Million dollars of Life insurance in force. Virgil H. Smith, Pre: Salt Lake City, Utah The INeliSi SOCISG7 Magazine:.. Volume 53 Number: 4 Ast the Well Alice Morrey Bailey | had come as she, the woman at the well, Seeking only slake for the day's need, Thirst on my tongue, my blood confused as hers Where Israel fought Assyria in her veins, But here | found, as she, the living fountain, Balm for my wounds, quench for my burnings, And my dark mirror in its quiet pool. And here, beside this river of compassion Have | poured out my woes and emptied grief And let my guilt uncoil and spread my greed Upon the sand for scrutiny, here spilled my yearnings, Let old fears dilute, confirmed belief. Now | am laved and full of joy and cool As a new spring bursting from the mountain. The Cover: View From Salem, Utah, Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: ''Christ and the Samaritan Woman," from a painting by Carl Bloch Print by Camera Clix Art Layout:* Dick Scopes IHustrations:.- Mary Scopes It has been a very wonderful time reading our fine Magazine. Each time it comes, | just sit, and with joy in my heart, | read the inspired pages that. Bring knowledge, wisdom, and faith. It is like an open door to heaven, and a hope that peace will stay with me in my home. Clemencia P. Golithon Redondo Beach, California 1 am a Lutheran by faith, but during my short stay in Utah became very fond of Relief Society and enjoyed every minute of it—such wonderful women and with such a good outlook on life. | find The Relief Society Magazine brings me the same enjoyment and inspiring messages and | can't wait for the next issue. Mrs. Thelma M. Adams Fort, Walton Beach, Florida All of my indifference towards poetry has changed the last two years since | have been studying the literature lessons in The Relief Society Magazine. We as Reliéf Society women are blessed with many advantages to enrich our lives. | love all the poems published in the Magazine, and especially the prizewinning poems in the January issue. "Letter to Viet Nam" (by Eva Willes Wangsgaard) really touched my heart. Lillie Hendricks Big Spring, Texas In the past three years, starting from Scotland, | have traveled widely over the United States and Canada, and have had many a lonely moment, but was fortunate to have these moments warmed by reading the Magazine, and from the contents one gets strength to carry on. | hope people like me and my fellow wanderers continue to receive the friendliness of The Relief Society Magazine. Ann Petrie San Francisco, California 242 StomONear an Ser | am nineteen years of age, single, have been subscribing to the M for nearly a year. From the fi stories to the deepest doctrinal sages, pours: priceless and uplifti and benefiting information. Young, | am especially interested the romantic side of life. The "For Barbara, With Love" (First Story, January 1966) deeply touc me, bringing tears to my eyes as I it. Thank you, Sister Vesterfelt, writing such a heartfelt message. Some years ago,. Was the serial " beth's Children' (by Olive W. 1958), which was also touching. | very thankful that | have the pri of receiving the Magazine. Jeanette Leavitt, Alberta, Ca | enjoy the Magazine very much cause it is so outstanding. | sur enjoy the story '"'A Swedish Conve (by Melva Taylor Gleave, in the: 1965 issue of the Magazine). Fredrika Bell Gardens, Califo The stories and lessons in the zine have proved to be most helpful me, and are indeed inspirational. TI recipes have been enjoyed by f and friends. The lessons have hel in guiding and directing my life. T lessons coincide beautifully with t Home Evening program. Relief Soci has come to mean soniething special for me. My _ testimony has _ been strengthened since | have had the opportunity to join Relief Society and to work in it. | was the only memb of my family in the Church in the M west and the Magazine was a guide a help in explaining the gospel. Miss Ada Ruth Fremont, Cali The Relief Society Vegazine a Volume 53 April 1966 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 244 The Need for and the Value of a Testimony Roy W. Doxey 256 The Technique and Art of the Pianist As Accompanist and Soloist Ellen N. Barnes 271 Look to the Future—Fight Cancer Gregory Peck Fiction 250 Thomena's Break Through Dorothy Clapp Robinson 262 That Certain Sparkle Frances Carter Yost 272 Birthday Present for Amy Mary Ek Knowles 279 "Look Mom: One Hundred Dollars" Helen H. Trutton 301 Wheat for the Wise Chapter 4 Margery S. Stewart General Features 242 From Near and Far 267 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 268 Editorial: "The Flowers Appear on the Earth" Vesta P. Crawford 270 Notes to the Field: Do You Contemplate a Change of Address? 308 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 320 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 286 Recipes For a Luncheon dHarriet B. Thorne 287 How to Sew Nylon Tricot Ethel Maturale 288 Second Hope Chest Elizabeth Cottam Walker 291 I Love April Genevieve Van Wagenen 292 Make a Dicky Wilma B. Lichfield 293 I Love Patches Joan N. Ahlman 294 Paintings Make Every Day Beautiful 295 Hill of Daffodils Sylvia Probst Young 296 Inspiration Clara Horne Park 297 Home Academy—What Are You Going to Teach, Mother? Leora Larsen 299 No Violins Lael J. Littke 307 A Proper Perspective Through The Relief Society Magazine Arlene Bascom 307 Full Circle Betty G. Spencer Lesson for June 315 Work Meeting—Wise Buymanship Jenniev J. Poulson Poetry 241 At the Well Alice Morrey Bailey My Butterfly, Vilate R. McAllister, 255; Lifted Hands, Della Adams Leitner, 261; Suddenly It's Spring, Annie Atkin Tanner, 266; "He Giveth His Beloved Sleep," Christie Lund Coles, 270; Bridal Spring, Pearle M. Olsen, 277; No Petal Lost, Blanche Kendall McKey, 278; Anna's Garden, Lucy W. Jones, 285; Prelude to Roses, Kathryn Kay, 290; Morning Glory Morning, Linda J. Houston, 298; Thank You, Visiting Teachers, Carolle Denton. 300; Alpine Lilies, Dorothy J. Roberts, 217; My Yellow Bird, Alda L. Brown, 318. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies wili be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Roy W. Doxey Professor of Scriptures {Address Delivered at the Of Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1965] @ I know that no person can come to this position and be successful without the preparation of prayer and a sincere desire to perform this assignment in keeping with the high standards of the Relief Society. With your faith and prayers my _inadequacies will be less noticeable. One time a student asked me if I could prove to him that there is a God. My answer was simple -and_ straightforward. I said, "No." He then said, "Oh, then what you teach about the gospel is not true, because you can't prove there is a God." It is true, no man can prove the existence of God. What we do is to cite various evidences in nature, the orderliness of the universe, the balance in nature, the resourcefulness of animal life, and man himself as a complex organ- 244 ism. But these things, important as they are to those who are trying to know about a power greater than themselves, really do not prove the existence of God and, certainly, do not reveal the personality and attributes of God. What, then, was my answer to the doubting student? "Although I 'cannot prove God's existence to you, nor do I believe that any man can do so, the Lord nonetheless has given us assurance that we can know that he lives. This knowledge comes to the individual and not to the multitude. Yes, we can know that God the Father lives, and that Jesus Christ is his Only Begotten Son. This knowledge can come to every individual that lives, provided he will accept the conditions upon which that knowledge is gained." God has not left his children without his fundamental knowledge which Jesus said was necessary in order to receive eternal life. (John 17:3.) We in the Church have come to know that revelation may be received by every person who is prepared for it. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a revelator" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 328). The apostle Paul said that "no man can say [or know] that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost" (I Cor. 12:3). So evident was this fact made known to Peter, when he said to Christ "Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God," that Jesus said to him: "... Flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 16:17). What preparation is necessary to receive revelation that God lives, that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God? I believe that Latter-day Saints have come to understand the basic elements which make it possible for one— young or old—to receive this knowledge. Briefly stated, they are: (1) a sincere desire to know; (2) belief or faith in Jesus Christ that he will answer prayer; (3) prayer itself; (4) diligent study to learn God's will; and (5) to live according to the principles of the gospel. It seems to me that the kind of faith that will bring results was mentioned by President Heber J. Grant about an experience in his early youth. I have often said and desire to repeat here that when I was a young THE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY unmarried man, another young man, who had received a doctor's degree ridiculed me for believing in the Book of Mormon. He said he could point out two lies in that book. One was that the people had built their homes out of cement and they were very skillful in the use of cement. He said there had never been found and _ never would be found a house built of cement by the ancient inhabitants of this country, because the people of that early age knew nothing about cement. He said that should be enough to make one disbelieve the book. I said: 'That does not affect my faith one particle. I read the Book of Mormon prayerfully and supplicated God for a testimony in my heart and soul to the divinity of it, and I have accepted it and believe it with all my heart." I also said to him, "If my children do not find cement houses, I expect that my grandchildren will." Now, since that time, houses made of cement and massive structures of the same material have been uncovered (Gospel Standards. Second Edition, page 28). What is a testimony? In the words of President Joseph F. Smith, we learn: A testimony of the truth is more than a mere assent of the mind, it is a conviction of the heart, a knowledge that fills the whole soul of its recipient (Roy W. Doxey, Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants II: 310). There are several elements about a testimony which, it seems to me, should be known. The testimony is received by the Holy Ghost speaking to one's spirit. When the Spirit speaks to one's soul as a still small voice or by impressions to the mind, the power of that experience is such that it can be greater than if one had contact with heavenly messengers. One truth associated with this fact is that when the Holy Ghost has spoken to a 245 APRIL 1966 man's soul, it is possible, if that man turns away from that testimony, he may not receive forgiveness in the world nor in the world to come. (D&C 76:31-35; Heb. 6:4-6.) Another fact we should know is that the testimony may come gradually, over a long period of time. President Joseph F. Smith said that as a boy he asked the Lord to show him some marvelous manifestation that he might have a testimony. But the Lord withheld these things from him and showed him line upon line, here a little and there a little, until he knew the truth from the crown of his head to the soles of his feet. By the whisperings of the still small voice of the Spirit he received a testimony. (Latterday Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants Il:316.) I believe we should remember that study of the books of scripture will greatly aid us in not only obtaining a living witness of the truth, but also to retain one. I believe that it is necessary for a Latter-day Saint to study the standard works of the Church in order for him to have a living, vibrant, testimony. An example of what I mean is this account concerning the power of The Book of Mormon to impart a testimony given by Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, in a General Conference sermon: I remember reading it [the Book of Mormon] with one of my lads when he was very young. On one occasion I lay in the lower bunk and he in the upper bunk. We were each reading aloud alternate paragraphs of those last three marvelous chapters of Second Nephi. I heard his voice breaking and thought he had a cold, but we 246 went on to the end of the three chapters. As we finished he said to me, "Daddy, do you ever cry when you read the Book of Mormon?" "Yes, Son," I answered. "Sometimes the Spirit of the Lord so witnesses to my soul that the Book of Mormon is true that I do cry." "Well," he said, "that is what happened to me tonight." I know not all of them will respond like that, but I know that some of them will, and I tell you this book was given to us of God to read and to live by, and it will hold us as close to the Spirit of the Lord as anything I know (Conference Reports, April 1949, page 41). I believe that what Brother Romney said about The Book of Mormon is equally true of the other books of scripture. It is also true that a fullfledged testimony, if I may use that expression, must be about all of the gospel and not only a part. One may, however, receive a testimony about one or several principles, such as that the law of tithing is true, that a virtuous life is exalting, that it is necessary to be honest and truthful. Testimony of a certain principle of the gospel comes because we live that principle. We do not have a testimony of the Word of Wisdom, or another principle of the gospel, unless we live that principle. When I live all of the principles of the gospel, then I have a testimony of all of them. In the meantime, that is, as I come to know the validity of many principles of the gospel, my understanding of other principles is enlarged, and my faith to accept all of the principles of the gospel is also increased. These ideas, though probably only partially stated here, bring us to a consideration of another important facet of our discussion. As one receives a testimony, so also one may lose it. Negligence in observing sincere prayer, a lack of study of gospel principles; a lack of participation in Church activities; stepping aside from living some of the principles of morality; perhaps, finding fault with one's fellow Church members and with the leadership of the Church, all result in weakened faith and a withdrawal of the Spirit of the Lord from our lives. What is the result? Discontentment, unhappiness' of heart, and a loss of peace and serenity of mind. But these adverse feelings come in this life. Greater still, is the loss of the great blessings of eternal life in the eternities to come. Let us consider in the remaining time, the reasons why each one of us should have a divine witness that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is God's Church and that our exaltation will be earned only by our having a witness for ourselves. First, the person who has a living testimony of the truth is a person of conviction. Converted herself, she is a converter of others. The power of testimony is well known in this Church. By the sincere testimony, the lives of tens of thousands of converts to this Church are changed to a meaningful and happier life. The teacher in the classroom or the executive in the Relief Society, the board member who has a testimony, exude faith, helpfulness, and strength of purpose. Second, those who continue to learn and to practice that knowledge are not deceived by every wind of doctrine or teaching that is not in agreement with the prinTHE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY ciples of the gospel. President Joseph F. Smith said: Where would you have people go who are unsettled in the truth? The answer is plain. They will not find/ satisfaction in the doctrines of men. Let them seek for it in the written word of God; let them pray to him in their secret chambers... And in their closets petition for light; let them obey the doctrines of Jesus, and they will immediately begin to grow in the knowledge of the truth. This course will bring peace to their souls, joy to their hearts, and a settled conviction which no change can disturb. They may be well assured that "he that heareth in secret will reward them openly." Let them seek for strength from the Source of all strength, and he will provide spiritual contentment, a rest which is incomparable with the physical rest that cometh after toil. All who seek have a right to, and may enter into, the rest of God, here upon the earth, from this time forth, now, today; and when earth-life is finished, they shall also enjoy his rest in heaven (JOSEPH F. SMITH, Gospel Doctrine. Ninth Edition, pp. 126-127). Third, the testimony is a shield against sin. When temptations come, temptations' enticings are easily rejected. The person who knows that there is a conscious existence after death and that all people will come to judgment, is the wise person, for he will act upon that knowledge and forsake the appearance of evil. Fourth, to the Latter-day Saint with a testimony, there comes the blessing of comfort and strength in times of difficulty. No one of us has a guarantee against adversity. All of us, however, have a guarantee, if we live for it, to receive the comforting peace that comes by the Spirit. Fifth, as a member of the Church increases in testimony 247 APRIL 1966 and he receives positive knowledge of the truth, his ability to live the principles of the gospel increases. Sixth, this person will find greater enthusiasm for the work of the Lord. Problems of administration, of teaching, of leadership, which to the nonconverted would be impossible of solution, or who would lack the drive to achieve, find solution because the one with a testimony knows that God will help and assist those who faithfully serve him. Seventh, the testimony is a bulwark of strength against the troublous times predicted for the last days. Wars, rumors of wars, civil strife that endangers lives and property, the love of man for fellow man growing cold, the ravages of the natural calamities, and the extreme wickedness with which we are bombarded, all of these are a part of our times, and they test the moral fibre of all people. President Heber C. Kimball said prophetically: Let me say to you, that many of you will see the time when you will have all the trouble, trial and persecution that you can stand, and plenty of opportunities to show that you are true to God and his work. This Church has before it many close places through which it will have to pass before the work of God is crowned with victory. To meet the difficulties that are coming, it will be necessary for you to have a knowledge of the truth of this work for yourselves. The difficulties will be of such a character that the man or woman who does not possess this personal knowledge or witness will fall. If you have not got the testimony, live right and call upon the Lord and cease not till you obtain it. If you do not you will not stand. Remember these sayings, for many of you will live to see them fulfilled. The time will come when no man nor woman will be able to endure on 248 borrowed light. Each will have to guided by the light within himself. You do not have it, how can stand? Do you believe it? (Life Heber C. Kimball, pp. 449-450). In addition to these s blessings accruing to the Lat day Saint with a testimony, seems to me that all members the Relief Society would do following things if they had testimony: First, they would follow th counsel of the Lord given in 18 to a member of the Church i a leadership position: ". Strengthen your brethren in your conversation, in all yo prayers, in all your exhortatio and in all your doings" (D 108:7). In other words, ev member of the Church would s tain unreservedly those who p side over him whether they General Authorities, stake @ mission authorities, or ward branch officers. They would everything in their power strengthen those who were se ing them by their prayers, in their conversations, in ft teaching and preaching, in fa in every way. Second, the person with a t timony will seek to build Zion the earth. Early in the dispen tion, the Lord told his people t this was the most import thing for them to do. To buil Zion means to be so dedicated the truth that one's actions, ef forts, means, and abilities a placed upon the altar for o Savior in building his kingdo upon the earth. It means, as the Relief Society or any of t organizations of the Church, 1 cluding the Priesthood, that all become as the ancient Zion i Enoch's day, "of one heart and one mind" (Moses 7:18). The ideal Zion-condition in the lives of each individual was expressed by President Brigham Young in these words: "I live and walk in Zion every day " (Journal of Discourses 1:4). Translating this concept into what is expected of every Latterday Saint, it seems to me that he or she who has a testimony of real substance, that person will pay his full tithing, observe the Word of Wisdom, be honest and truthful, virtuous in his life, seek the advancement of his fellow man, and will accept all of these principles and also responsibilities in the Church, whether considered small or large, for all advance the cause of Zion. The First Presidency composed of President Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and Jedediah M. Grant, has given us an insight into the blessings received by those who have a testimony of the truth: Incomparable delight and happiness fill the soul of the faithful Saint, who has the testimony of Jesus and the Spirit of the living God to enlighten his understanding. Happiness supreme and love divine fill his bosom, as he seeks to impart the gladsome intelligence to his fellow species, that they may also be partakers with him in the glorious cause, and share in its blessings. Thus our holy religion absorbs every feeling, desire, ambition, motive, and action of our natures, and renders every association in life tributary thereto; it forms the vitality of our very existence; it enters not only into our spiritual but also into our temporal organization, and controls us in all our affairs. This is true of every person who has tasted the good work of life, has received the Holy Ghost, and continues to walk in the light, and be led by its gentle influTHE NEED FOR AND VALUE OF A TESTIMONY ence. This is salvation in the kingdom of God, it is glory celestial, and exaltation. This is the work that makes angry the adversary, who fears the overthrow of his kingdom and power upon the earth, that causes Satan to rage and seek to destroy the Saints of the Most High, as he did in the days of Jesus and of his Apostles and followers (Latter-day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants 1:434). As I close these remarks, I want to express my deep appreciation for the opportunity I have had and that I am still enjoying in writing the theology lessons for the Relief Society. I have learned that the sisters of the Relief Society are dedicated to the building of Zion upon the earth. Let us return to the doubting student mentioned in the beginning of these remarks. To him and to all people, I can say that if a person seeks with all his heart to know of God's existence, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of men, and to know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, these truths will be made known to him by the power of the Holy Ghost. I want also to express this fact. Regardless of ideas and thoughts to the contrary, ultimately, in each person's life there must come the conviction of the Holy Ghost. I know that revelation is in this Church, that the Lord's promise, as follows, is true: If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries and peaceable things—that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal (D&C 42:61). In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. 249 Thomena's Break-Througlt porcers ctape robin wg "Mumm-mm." Thomena Laudwehr scrutinized herself in her bedroom mirror. "Mum—mm." Not beautiful, but not lacking in beauty, either. The thing was, she knew what she wanted to see, SO it should have been easy to find what she was looking for; but, search as she might, the image in the mirror did not reflect strength, nor the power to make decisions. With a deep sigh, Thomena reached for her purse and counted the few dollars it contained. She had really struggled to save them. She wanted to buy Ursula Laudwehr, her mother-in-law, a birthday present. Thomena had discovered the date when searching Derek's family group sheet. 250 The problem now was, did s dare offer Ursula Laudwehr a present she would buy with s little? Mrs. Laudwehr had everythi it seemed, including a daugh in-law she highly resented. "Derek," she had asked at th breakfast table a few months after their marriage, "Why do you love me?" Derek had dropped the toast he was about to sample. '""Because you ask such unexpected questions." "Be serious. Why do you love me?" Derek's eyes had scrutiniz her, his mouth puckered. "Why do I love thee? Let me count the reasons. You are adorable, you are beautiful, you are cuddly." "Derek." "You did not let me finish. You are intelligent, and you are in every detail the girl I wanted for my wife." "Oh, you.... I have no strength of character; no power to make decisions. I don't know how to treat your mother." Derek choked on the milk he was drinking. After a show of coughing, he said, "Now she tells me, after making me wait for two years before she would give me the glad word. That was because she could not make up _ her mind!" "No. I knew I was going to marry you long before you asked me." "Is that right?" "T mean—well, your mother doesn't approve of me." "What has that to do with your power to make decisions?" "She disapproves of me. She disapproves of my—our religion. She doesn't answer my letters; when she does write, her letters are addressed to you. I can't make up my mind what to do." "The trouble with my mother is, she makes too many decisions for other people; and I insist on making my own. Perhaps you have noticed. Our children will be so decisive they will make up your mind for you—whether or no." He rose from the table, then stooped to kiss her. 'Don't you worry, Tom-Baby. When you are in doubt always follow your heart." They had been almost deliriously happy that first year. Mrs. Laudwehr had refused to give Derek support unless he would come to his senses and enter the THOMENA'S BREAK-THROUGH University where he belonged. He must follow the traditional family pattern. Luckily, he had had a small income from an uncle's estate. He did tutoring, and Thomena worked part time so they had managed without debt. But now there was a baby coming, and the unpleasant facts Thomena had forced to the back of her mind appeared and demanded to be recognized. No home could be complete without a parent or a grandparent. Thomena had adored the grandmother who had reared her; and the aunts and uncles and cousins—why, life would be unbearable without them. Derek found in Uncle Jim the father he had never known, and Thomena must find in Mrs. Laudwehr the mother she had never known. So, clearly, it was up to her to find some way to resolve the situation. And she could not even decide on a birthday present. Last fall Mrs. Laudwehr had appeared on the faculty of their university as an exchange professor. She rented an _ expensive apartment. It should have been a time of rejoicing, but it was not. Thomena's disk of happiness would not play on her emotional machine. No friendship developed, and without friendship how could anyone find love? Thomena turned from the mirror. Taking her sweater and purse, she went into the living room just as Derek and his friend, Phil Harris, came bounding up the stairs. "Hi, Tom-Baby. I was afraid you might be gone. Come in, Phil, arid don't mind my hugging my adorable wife. Isn't she beautiful?" Thomena's face colored with 251 APRIL 1966 embarrassment. "But, why are you home this time of the day?" she asked when she could. "Phil and I have to go to Lowell Peak dam to watch the installation of some _ electronic machinery. We must write papers on it. We may be gone a week, and I do not want to leave you that long without the car. Will you drive us up?" "Surely, I would love to." But after they were away from town and speeding toward the high hills, she thought of Mrs. Laudwehr's birthday. "Today is your mother's birthday," she told Derek, "and I should get back before the stores close." "I'm sorry, but it is too late now for me to see her. She will not mind. She quit having birthdays before I was old enough to buy her a present. Give her a kiss for me, but do not mention her birthday. She will not like it." "The stores are open until eight tonight," Phil said, ''and it won't take longer than half an hour to buy a present, so you should be able to make it." The three were sitting in the front seat, Derek driving effortlessly as he did most things. At Phil's suggestion, Thomena turned her head to hide a smile. How little he knew about buying a present, and she had been looking for the past month. The drive could have been so wonderful if Thomena had not been so conscious of time. Over and over, she listed in her mind possible purchases that would be suitable and acceptable—but she would never get back in time to shop. Occasionally, a small town would offer something more valuable than could be found in the city. She remembered once in a 252 small-town bookstore she had found a first edition of Huckleberry Finn. On the flyleaf it said, "Christmas, 1894. To my beloved nephew." She had paid ten cents for the book. Perhaps she could give that to Mrs. Laudwehr— but, no, her mother-in-law undoubtedly appreciated first editions, but not of a juvenile book. "This is the sixteenth time you have looked at your watch in the last fifteen minutes,"' Derek broke her reverie. 'Are you that anxious to say goodbye?" Thomena_ smiled. "Frankly, yes. I want to get into a store." "Bake her a cake." "You know she doesn't eat pastries. Too fattening." "Well, I like cake. Suppose you have one baked for me when I get back, and forget a present." Derek was always positive when speaking of his mother. "She doesn't like to be reminded of her age." THOMENA's hopes sank. Perhaps Mrs. Laudwehr would resent being a grandmother. I can't buy her love with a_ present, she told herself, but the ice must be broken someway and it would be terrible not to be remembered on one's birthday. Christmas is for everybody, but a birthday is one's very own. "Well, here we are." Derek had driven across the causeway and stopped before an office building. He reached for his typewriter and briefcase. "You get with the baggage, Phil. I am driving back to where the steep climb begins. Can't trust Tom-Baby to drive that alone. I will walk back." "But that is too far," Thomena_ protested. "Not nearly as far as from there to the bottom of the canyon." "T just remembered," Phil told Thomena, "after you leave this first canyon there is a turn to the right. It will take you through a small resort. You might find something there." "Thank you, Phil. I will take the turn." Derek maneuvered the car about and again crossed the causeway. Water was almost to the top of the dam. On the lower side there was nothing but a downward plunge with a great roaring spray issuing from three outlets. At the point in the road where the angle of descent leveled, Derek set the brakes. He got out and Thomena slipped behind the wheel. "You will be careful, won't you, darling? I never knew there could be anyone as precious as you." She leaned forward to receive his parting kiss. "You forget I have driven over mountain roads since I was old enough to have a license." "That is the only reason I am trusting you to make it back. Please, be careful." "T can't go without the keys." Derek's face went blank, then he laughed. "I was not conscious of having put them in my pocket. Here you are....""' He stopped again and felt in all his pockets. "Thomena, I have come away without my wallet. Must have left it in the slacks. What shall I do?" "Shall I bring it up to you?" "No. I don't need anything but a little cash—have to pay for my board. Phil might have enough to lend me some, but I THOMENA'S BREAK-THROUGH doubt it. He gets by on so little." Without hesitation, Thomena handed him her purse. He took the money from it and handed it back. "I dislike doing this. I know you were on your way downtown when we picked you 9 up. THERE was another leavetaking, then Thomena realized she was going down the mountain at a fast pace. She felt a little lightheaded. The decision had been taken from her; it was no longer her responsibility to buy a birthday present; but she had done her best. She took the road Phil had suggested, but as she had no money she drove through the resort without stopping. But her mother-in-law's birthday still kept intruding on her thoughts. Derek had been offered a teaching fellowship, so they were sure to be here two more years. Would Ursula Laudwehr move when they did? What difference would it make? The next two years, she reasoned, would be as important as any two years of their lives; perhaps more so, for the wider the gap the harder it would be to bridge. The day would not be over until twelve o'clock and—here I go again, she thought. Why can't I just forget? The decision was taken out of my hands. In the canyon, dusk was settling heavily over trees and road. She made a turn that brought her to an opening between the hills. Here the sun was still shining. For a moment it almost blinded her. She drew to the side of the road and stopped the car. Sunshine lay like a dappled but physical blanket over a small clearing. "A crowd, a host of gold- 253 APRIL 1966 en daffodils,' she quoted, only the flowers were not daffodils, but common everyday buttercups, the kind she had picked as a child. Suddenly Thomena's hopes flared—it might be possible yet. She was out of the car and picking buttercups before her thoughts had quite jelled. She began picking, choosing only the largest long-stemmed ones. When she had all she could hold in her two hands, she returned to the car and laid them on the back seat. Now—if she hurried she could arrange the blossoms in a vase; at least, it would be a birthday remembrance, if not a present. When nearly to the county road, she stopped the car so suddenly she was thrown against the steering wheel. Before her was another expanse of flowers, sego lilies, this time. Buttercups did not mean anything in particular; sego lilies did. They were sort of a symbol. She started picking. The plants were not thickly grouped as were the buttercups, but they were larger and more colorful than any she had ever seen. The lilac and gold in the centers were more vivid and the petals creamier than usual. She moved about choosing, discarding. She laid the lilies be- 254 side the buttercups, then hurried to get home before they wilted. Thomena put both bouquets on the kitchen table while she hunted for a vase. She found one of olive-green porcelain. It was fashioned with a square foot and a stem that flared into a shallow bowl. Thomena chose her blossoms carefully and arranged them as tastefully as she could. But she could not trust the car seat to hold the vase so the water would not spill, and she could not trust the blossoms out of water for another half hour; besides, she wanted to enter Ursula's presence with the arrangement intact. It would make a better impression. She would have to walk and carry the offering. At the Centralia, where Mrs. Laudwehr lived, Thomena took the elevator to the twelfth floor. She walked carefully down the hall and knocked at number 983. What if Mrs. Laudwehr laughed at her present, or, worse still, pretended to like it? Thomena could. Not help that happening, much as she would regret it; it was her - privilege to give and Mrs. Laudwehr's to receive in any manner she saw fit. Ursula Laudwehr opened the ~ door, and for a moment stood blinking at the tired looking, disheveled girl. "Come in." "Happy, birthday," Thomena said, and took two steps into the living room. Then she stumbled and water sloshed from the shallow vase onto the rose carpet. She sat down, abruptly, set the vase away from her, and began to cry. She was tired, she was hungry, and she had ruined everything. Ursula frowned. She studied the girl intently, then a faint smile softened her features. She brought a towel and wiped the water from the rug. She took the vase away and returned with the arrangement intact. She placed it on the table before the couch on which she had been sitting. "You have made your point," she said suddenly. 'Come sit by me." The sobs stopped more abruptly than they had begun. After a sniffle or two, Thomena wiped her eyes and her dress. '""What do you mean?" she demanded. "Why did you come here?" "Why to— to—" "Exactly. Incidentally, this is the first birthday present I have been given since I was twelve years old. Thank you. I honor the thought that prompted the giving." "Why—why, Derek told me you didn't like birthday presents." "An unhappy experience at that age soured me, and I retaliated in the only way I knew. When I matured a little, I could not find the softness to say I had changed." A little reluctantly, Thomena THOMENA'S BREAK-THROUGH sat on the couch; she was not prepared for a quick surrender. She looked at her mother-in-law and saw understanding in her eyes. "You are a sweetie-pie,"' she cried impulsively. Then her face flushed. 'I didn't mean to be flippant. I know you dislike slang. Derek calls me "Tom-Baby,' and I wish he wouldn't. It sounds so —so juvenile and like a cat." Mrs. Laudwehr actually smiled. "Let Derek be juvenile. It is a delayed reaction. He will recover. How would you like Ursula Mowbray DeLilue Laudwehr for a name?" "Horrible." Thomena leaned and kissed the owner of those names. "T know a much prettier one." "Tell me." "Grandmother." Mrs. Laudwehr's eyes _hardened briefly. She drew a deep breath. "So be it." Then she succumbed. '"'After all, no matter how much she may resent it every oldish woman needs a grandchild." "Every child needs a grandmother." Thomena kissed her again, then' said belatedly, "Happy birthday, Mother." MY BUTTERFLY Vilate R. McAllister Happiness, flaunting butterfly wings, Fluttered beyond my grasp. In vain | pursued the dancing wraith, Far too elusive to clasp. Discouraged and tired, | stopped to rest, And quietly sat on a boulder. Happiness fluttered near again, And presently lit on my shoulder! 255 The Technique and Art of the As and Ellen N. Barnes Member, General Board of Relief Society (Talk Delivered at the Music Department Meeting of the Relief Society. Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965) PSALM 100 Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness: come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord he is God: it is he that hath made us. And not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name. For the Lord is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations. @ The frequently quoted expression that "'accompanists are born and not made" is one with which I do not agree. Accompanying is an acquired art, and one which any good pianist can master. One can be guided a long way on the road which leads to proficiency. Beyond a certain point, however, the individual must have learned all of the mechanics involved and be able to profit by his own experience. One can learn to play the notes of an accompaniment with skill, but the art of accompanying and ensemble playing will come to him only as a result of his own efforts in study, perseverance, patience, and experience. The playing of accompaniments should not be regarded as a stepping stone to other things, but rather the accompanist's work is sufficiently rewarding in itself. Those who have had the experience of being an accompanist know the delight which this area of music-making can give. The conductor and singers depend upon the accompanist at all times for support and inspiration. Sir Landon Ronald once said: "The world is overstocked with brilliant solo pianists, but there are precious few good accompanists." The great accompanist Gerald Moore stated: The popular conception of an adequate accompanist is of a quiet, modest individual, seen but not heard, an affable automation, obediently following the soloist and oozing with sympathy and discretion from every pore.... Only on the rarest occasion should the accompanist be satisfied with providing an unobtrusive murmur in the background. Such an attitude would ruin the works of any great composer. To the singer, a good accompanist means good work, and good work means enjoyable work. A good or competent accompanist does not follow, but anticipates and goes hand in hand with the conductor and singers. Skill in doing this is acquired by proper coordinated attention. The music must be well in hand, including mastery of the singer's part, so that the accompanist can be alert to subtle changes in tempo or dynamics which are not indicated in the score. Being sensitive to the conductor's wishes in observing these nuances, adds greatly to the charm and interest of the music. These subtleties cannot be easily taught, but are developed as the result of study, concentration, and experience. Brother J. Spencer Cornwall states in his book Fundamentals of Conducting, that: A conductor cannot appreciate too highly an efficient accompanist—one who can anticipate his every need— one who will sound the pitch in a rehearsal at every necessary point without being told—one who can right a tempo which has slackened or accelerated—one who can boost the pitch of the singers when it has flatted and one who can follow every movement of the conductor and exemplify it in his playing. THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST When the work of the conductor and accompanist complement each other in all phases of musical performance, the situation is ideal. An accompaniment is not written as an afterthought. It must be the foundation for the entire musical structure of the composition. Any piece of music with a poorly written or poorly played accompaniment is doomed to failure. Accompaniments are not only important because of their technical difficulty, but may, because of their simplicity, give the sensitive pianist much more to think about. Many pianists do not take enough time to work for quality of tone and a variety of shadings in a simple or easily read accompaniment. The singers' want something more than the casual playing of mere notes. The simplicity of these accompaniments demands that they be treated reverently. The accompanist must be able to interpret and play the music from a variety of composers, in a variety of styles to suit the composer as well as_ the nature of the composition. Learn to analyze the music and listen critically to your playing of it. In preparation for learning a new song, one should first of all study the words. The accompaniment to every good song paints a picture or creates a mood which is inspired by the words. Therefore, the accompanist and conductor, as well as the singers, must depend upon these words to guide them. What character can an accompanist give to her playing if she is not familiar with the words? How can she possibly feel a unity of expression with the conductor and singers if she does 257 APRIL 1966 not know the words, and understand the meaning of them? POSITION AT PIANO— HAND POSITION Now let us consider some of the attributes which are of prime importance in developing the art of piano playing and accompanying. First of all, one must have a good position at the piano. She should be at a comfortable height so that her hands rest easily on the keyboard to be held on a plane nearly level with the forearms. The hands should be cupped, with fingers curved, so that a good singing tone can be produced. The weight of the arm centers in the ball of the fingertip as it comes in contact with the key. The wrist should be relaxed at all times. TONE QUALITY, PHRASING, AND BALANCE OF TONE In developing tone quality, one should learn to listen to oneself. This is of utmost smportance. There should be no harsh sounds, but constant striving to develop a beautiful singing tone. Practice a hymn and try to bring out different melodic lines (soprano, alto, or tenor) in a succession of chords. While the soprano voice in an accompaniment frequently sings out, very often a tone in an inner voice may be of vital importance and must be brought out to indicate a change of key or harmony. One should learn to control the tone so that all tones, except the melodic tone in a chord, are subdued. If one learns to use the fingers with sensitivity, a variety of touch can be developed, and, by experimenting with touch, a variety of tone colors can be produced. 258 PHRASING AND BALANCE OF TONE Observe the phrasing and musical punctuation indicated in the score. Practice to develop the art of beautiful phrasing. Phrases are usually indicated by long curved lines over the notes. The notes within a phrase are usually played legato (smoothly); the end of a phrase is often indicated by a break or slight lift of the wrist. However, there must be no interruption in the rhythm. The accompanist must listen constantly to the balance of tone. She must keep under but give strong support to the singers. LEGATO PLAYING—SCALES Scale practice is the very foundation of piano technique. A scale is a (developing) chain in which all of the notes are played precisely alike and are very even in tone. They must be _ played smoothly and connected as in legato playing. In this, there is no break between tones. One finger comes up as the other goes down. Up motions are the exact reciprocal of down motions; the one must equal and counterbalance the other. This reciprocity is of vital importance. Clearness, fluency, and general control of the fingers depend upon this reciprocal action. In a poorly executed scale it is probable that the up motions are neither as quick as the down motions, nor as accurately timed. In playing a whole note, for example, the finger that has been correctly trained goes down to the key and is lifted with precisely the same speed with which it would play a group of 64th notes. The only difference is the length of time that the finger remains on the key. The reasons for this quick finger action are: (1) good quality of tone is achieved; (2) power is secured; and (3) speed is obtained, and the scale is legato— played smoothly. Learn to play with skill the scales, arpeggios, and chords of all major and minor keys. This will make learning new music much easier. PEDALING Good pedaling is of great importance. Syncopated pedaling is used in most of our hymns. To acquire proficiency in syncopated pedaling, practice a scale putting the sustaining pedal down just after a key is played. The pedal comes up as the next key is struck, and goes down while you are still holding the key. Apply this principle as you practice the hymns and you will find that they will sound much more smoothly. If a tone or bass chord is to be held through the phrase, the pedal must catch the low tone and sustain it. As a rule, the pedal changes with the harmonic change. DYNAMICS Learn the meaning of all the markings on the pages of music in a song. Follow the composer's markings accurately. Get a musical dictionary and use it regularly for reference. (Elson's is a good one.) Study the dynamics (tone volume) and learn to control the amount of tone you use according to the specific directions of the composer. For example, a crescendo must be a gradual increase in tone and a diminuendo a gradual decrease in tone. Learn to observe all markings in every THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST piece of music you play. This will greatly increase the interest of the music both to the performer as well as to the listener. RHYTHM Rhythm in music consists of regular recurring accents. The rhythm must be sure and steady. A metronome is of some help, but learn to rely on yourself. Always count time, but, of course, to yourself. Learn the measure signatures and follow them accurately. It is important that you do not neglect the rests; count them the same as you do the notes. TEMPO Check the metronome markings and be sure the speed of your rhythms is correct. Sister Florence J. Madsen says in her book Music Leadership in Relief Society: "Make sure that the tempo is comfortable for the singers and enchances the beauty, dignity, and character of the song." A word of caution—many songs may lose the spirit or fail to be enthusiastically received by being taken at too slow or too fast a tempo. A sense of timing is all important. The conductor has to rely on an efficient accompanist who has the musicianship and training, to keep the proper tempo, and give support and inspiration to the conductor and singers. All should work together to achieve a_ successful and beautiful performance. Here, again, one must keep in mind the text and meaning of the words to the song. The feeling must be personal and dynamic, if you are to touch the hearts of the listeners. Both conductor 'and accom- 259 APRIL 1966 panist must radiate enthusiasm and love for both the singers and the music. The accompanist should learn to forget the fingers and keep his eye on the vocal line. Sing the words to yourself and make a mental note of where the singers breathe. SIGHT READING Fifteen minutes a day practice in sight reading can greatly improve one's ability and give confidence in playing and learning new music. Begin with reading simple compositions and, gradually, increase the difficulty of the music as you gain in confidence and proficiency. It would be well to start with the first hymn and go through the entire book. This would give the accompanist a general acquaintance with all of the hymns. As she returns to practice them, she should read the texts and decide which style and mood belong to each song and play them accordingly. As the hymns are played, do make sure that both hands strike the chord in unison or together. Never, never play the left hand before the right hand. In sight reading, it is very important always to maintain an even beat and take it at a slower tempo. If some notes are left out, it will not matter—but do maintain the beat. PRELUDE AND INTERLUDE In playing the prelude or introduction and interlude in a song or hymn, it is very important that these passages be played with authority, employing all the technique of fine piano playing. In both places, the tempo of the song should be maintained. 260 The introduction of a hymn should consist of the beginning four measures or first phrase, and end with the last four measures or last phrase. If the hymn is short, all of it may be played. An interlude, consisting of the last phrase of the hymn, may be played after the second verse. Do not wander away in some improvisation that takes the singers away from the tune they are singing. In a song, these preludes and interludes are solo parts for the piano and must be made interesting and beautiful. These are 'places where the piano can speak and assume the leadership. Sister Madsen says: Prelude music is played for the purpose of generating a spirit of devotion and worship, and not for drowning out conversation and noise. The accompanist therefore should choose music that is of a subdued and quiet nature and not a display of volume, speed, or technique (Ibid, page 34). Again, I want to emphasize to you that you must practice and learn to play the music beautifully. Your goal of inspiring a spirit of devotion and worship cannot be achieved if you play inaccurately, carelessly, or with faulty phrasing or technique. Remember that if you are invited to become the Relief Society stake or ward organist or chorister, it is an opportunity for growth and development. Any mother who is herself growing and learning will ~ be a far better mother. We all need to feel that we are improving our talents and abilities and this must continue throughout life if we are pursuing our Heavenly Father's plan for us. Make stake leadership music department an inspiration and of real value to ward leaders. The organists should meet separately for a short time and discuss appropriate prelude music. They should play for each other and exchange ideas. They can discuss the fundamentals of musicianship and of interpretation, observing phrasing and dynamics and even technical problems. The chorister and organist should plan together for the leadership meetings throughout the year, using their ingenuity and understanding of the needs in the wards. If the ward leaders feel that they are getting some real help, they will make every effort to attend, and the standard of music in the wards will be raised immeasurably. It will become vitalized and, sisters, we do need to vitalize the music in stakes, wards, and branches. Study continuously, and you and the Church will reap the rewards. In conclusion, I should like to urge all of you to attend as many concerts—especially orchestral— as you can, and constantly listen to good music. Study the tonal THE TECHNIQUE AND ART OF THE PIANIST and dynamic effects, the melodic line, the harmonic progression, and balance of tone. Listen to the instruments which play the melody or theme and try to follow its development. I can't stress this continuing education too strongly. We should maintain the highest standards in our music, both for services and performances. There must always be growth and development. Excellence is the result of attention to seemingly insignificant details—the shading of the piano, the accent of a word, the changing of the countenance. The key to achieving excellence is to give three times the amount of work and attention to learning the composition that you consider necessary. May our Heavenly Father bless our efforts as we strive to improve our talents and ability to develop the art of accompanying so that we can make worthwhile contributions to the Church and, specifically, to Relief Society. LIFTED HANDS Della Adams Leitner Jesus lifted up his hands A blessing to invoke On his disciples when he left, And as the words he spoke They listened to his final thought That henceforth they should be His messengers of gospel news, Proclaimed from sea to sea. E "lifted up his hands," and we, Heirs of his truth, should go With hands that lift to serve in love, The heart's rich overflow; Hands that bring help, supply, and aid, Obeying his commands, Channels for comfort, courage, hope, Our "lifting up'' of hands. 261 @ Fanny Carlsen hummed a medley of favorite tunes as she sewed the buttons on the dress she had just finished making. This was a special dress, for a special occasion. True, the dress, like all of Fanny's clothes, would be worn for years and years. But this dress would be forever remembered and referred to as the dress for the trip in 1966. Fanny and Alex Carlsen enjoyed life. They loved their cozy home surrounded by a well-kept yard, garnished with flowers and vegetables and a few thriving fruit trees. Alex liked his job at the plant, and his boss. They appreciated the people of their neighborhood, both grownups and little folks. They liked their ward family and their stake acquaintances. They had a few really choice friends with whom they visited back and forth. Yes, Fanny thought, she and Alex lived a good, full life, but the 262 That Lertain oparkle Frances Carter Yost \ highlight of it all was always their annual trip. The trip was a twelve-hundredmile journey they took during Alex's two weeks' vacation. The trip was to see their son Tom and his family.; Tom was their only child. He was a good son, one of whom to be proud. When the Carlsens had started life together, they had hoped for a big family. Only one had come to bless their union. So they actually showered upon Tom love sufficient for a huge family. Fanny felt each year of their life spread out rich and full, but she admitted the two weeks going to see Tom was the highlight of the whole year. As she thought about it, they spent six months of the year remembering their trip, recalling the sheer joy of it all. Then they spent the next five and a half months planning for the next trip. Now the time was here... Almost. They would leave on their trip in twelve more days. Fanny had their clothes all cleaned and pressed. Now she had this lovely new dress made to add sparkle to her wardrobe—and to remember the trip, after it was all over. Fanny sat back and for a few minutes admired her work, as the dress hung on a hanger over the door. It was pretty. She had had good luck with it. The dress fit perfectly and felt good. It was so pretty she was tempted to wear it on the trip. But she thought it would be more fun to bring it out fresh and lovely for Tom and Barbara to see her in it, for the first time. "My goodness, I've been so engrossed in my sewing, I haven't even watched for the mailman." Fanny hurried to the front door. A letter from Barbara! No! It's Tom's handwriting. How thoughtful of Tom to take time to write. He usually phoned, and left the writing to Barbara. Fanny Carlsen tore the envelope open quickly and unfolded the letter. It was actually just a short note, probably a last minute invitation. Tom was so thoughtful. Fanny started reading, but before she had finished she withered into a nearby chair. Dear Mother and Dad: We won't be having house guests this summer. We'll reserve a room for you at one of the motels. Okeh? Love, Tom. When Fanny finally looked up from the letter lying on her lap, there was a blur over her eyes, like a cataract. She kept blinking to clear her vision, but the tears kept coming. Fanny was thankful to be THAT CERTAIN SPARKLE alone. She hoped none of the neighbors dropped in until... Until she had more control... Until she could put on a gay front... A pin-up smile. She knew it was downright foolish to cry like this. She mustn't make a mountain out of a molehill. Tom had sent his love. Some would think him generous, giving them the luxury of motel accommodations. And yet—what was the saying her mother used when she made beds on the floor for the family when company came? "There's room in the house, if there's room in the heart." Through the tears, Fanny looked at the new dress. It somehow seemed hollow and lifeless. Where was the sparkle the dress had only minutes before? She would have to get hold of herself. She was acting like Chicken Little with the sky falling. Lots of things had _ happened in life worse than this. Think of poor little Mrs. Findley down the street with her letter only this week from Viet Nam— killed in action. "TI wish Alex didn't have to see the letter. It will hurt him to the marrow." Fanny couldn't conceive of not showing it to Alex. She hadn't ever been deceitful. Then, too, keeping the letter would not solve the problem. She and Alex had shared all their joys and sorrows. They would have to share the letter and work something out together. "Poor, dear Alex." Alex was getting along in years. He had been so proud that he could still drive those long miles to Tom's. Occasionally they had talked about the years ahead, 263 APRIL 1966 when Alex might not be able to drive. When that time came they would take the bus or the train. If they were financially able, they might fly to Tom's. But never had they considered not going to Tom's during their vacation. Of course, in the far distant years perhaps, when their health failed, they might not be able to go. But they prayed day by day that God would bless them with health and strength and finances... To go to Tom's. In their most haunting nightmares they had never suspicioned that perhaps Tom and Barbara and the children didn't want them to come. Had they actually—through the years—been unwanted guests? Fanny felt another deluge of tears breaking forth. She must not cry. She must be more prayerful. It was hard to ask God to touch your own son's heart so that he wanted you. One could pray for protection for one's child, but it was hard to pray for —for his love. When a child is small he needs his parents. When he is grown, is such a need completely obliterated? Yet parents never outgrow the need to be needed. She had thought their visits were of mutual enjoyment. How blind she must have been. Fanny Carlsen felt the dear old chair putting comforting arms about her. She leaned back. It was last year's June, with June's gentleness.... "There's Tom's house now, Alex! Tom is coming out of the door and down the walk." "Now, Mother, wait until I get the jitney stopped before you get out,' 264 "Hello, Mother." Tom kissed her tenderly on the lips. "Sure is good to see you, Dad. Did the car make it OK?" Tom's arm went around his father's shoulder. Then Barbara came out of the house. "Dad and Mother Carlsen, it's a happy day for us when you arrive. We have all looked forward to your company." Charlie, the youngest, bounced out of the house next, his black hair wild on his head. '"Grandma! Grandpa@ I've been watching the road all day, until I had to empty the garbage and...." "Good little Green-Light Charlie.""' Alex swooped him up in his arms. The special name for Charlie was because he had so much go, Alex said. The screen door opened with a wham, spilling forth three more grandchildren who all swarmed about them with hugs and kisses. "Can you carry that little overnight bag for Grandma, Charlie? I'll take these two big suitcases." 'Aw, let me carry two, Tom J. I'm big now." "We want you to have our bedroom, Grandma. Don't we, Charlie?" "But where will you boys sleep?" "Tom J. And I are sleeping in scout bags in the basement, and if it is real warm and nice, Mama said we might get to sleep outside under the stars." "T hate for you boys to have to sleep outside." Charlie's eyes were like stars when he replied: "Gosh, Grandma, we like to do that!" Tom J. Put the suitcases down in his room and turned to his Grandmother, "I hope that mo- saic tile plaque I'm working on doesn't bother you on the dresser." "Tom J., your things won't bother us a mite...." Fanny's mind, like a jet plane in flight, traveled back to another summer when Susan and Carol had given up their room. They had said at the time they enjoyed sleeping on the davenport in the family room. Perhaps she should suggest to Alex that they just stay home for their two weeks' vacation. But that wasn't such a good idea. If Alex were in town and something went wrong at the plant, they would call him back to work. Alex needed to get away for awhile. Fanny's horizons seemed to be closing in on her. Promptiy at five thirty-seven, Alex drove his car into the garage. A person could set her clock on Alex's comings and goings. As he came toward the house, Fanny studied his powerful face which the years had lined deeply. She saw, too, the wisdom and the mellowness in his eyes. She would hold the letter until after supper, unless, of course, Alex insisted. Alex showered, then came in and sat down at the table. Dinner was ready. Fanny was glad she had prepared things he liked especially well. As he unfolded his napkin, Alex asked: "Any mail today?" "Yes, Alex, there was a short note from Tom." "What did he say?" "ll get it for you." "Don't bother, it can wait until after supper." When the dishes were finished, and Alex was resting in his faTHAT CERTAIN SPARKLE vorite chair, Fanny handed him Tom's letter. She watched him as he read it, but his face showed no outward effects. Without comment, he picked up the paper and scanned it carefully, making an occasional comment regarding world problems. Fanny started crocheting. She was making a bedspread for Tom and Barbara for Christmas, and it took every moment of her spare time. Alex finished with the paper, folded it neatly and set it aside. He slumped down in his chair and sighed. "Glad to know Tom is so successful." "What do you mean, Alex?' "Must be doing pretty well, offering to put us up in a motel." Fanny wasn't in the mood to pass it off as a joke, yet she knew Alex had no malice. Alex was as Nathanael of old, a man without guile. Alex considered the frugalness of words a virtue, so they held hands. "Fanny, how would you like to take a fishing trip for a change this summer? Sam Oldroyd suggested we go to Yellowstone with Martha and him." "T guess we could, Alex, but we see them the year around. I get lonesome to see the children, but whatever you say, Alex." "It will do us both good to have a different vacation." Alex looked up, and for the first time, noticed the dress hanging on the door. "T see you made your new dress for the trip." "T just finished it. Today, Alex." "Tt will hardly do for a fishing trip, will it?" "No, it isn't at all suitable for 265 APRIL 1966 that. But I'll get a lot of use out of it, for years to come, actually." "Well, it's time for an old man to hit the hay. I had a hard day at the plant." Ding! "Goodness, who could be calling this time of night, Alex?" "T'll get it, Fanny." "Night letter for Mr. And Mrs. Carlsen." "T'm Carlsen." "Sign here, please." "Thanks." Alex closed the door. "Fanny, here's a telegram. A night letter, I believe the messenger boy called it. It's from Tom." "T hope nothing is wrong." "Here, read it." "T wish you would, Alex." "Go ahead, Fanny." Alex withdrew the yellow sheet from the envelope and handed it to her. Fanny's voice trembled, and confusion spread a_ pink mantle across her face. Dear Folks: The pop music is so hectic around our house, I thought I would give you a treat of peacefulness at the motel across the street. But Barbara and the children vetoed the idea completely at our regular weekly home evening. During our family council meeting, we decided to fix up the attic into a really nice room with bath special for you both. Things should be completed when you get here the 15th of June. IT wanted to phone and tell you all about it, but Barbara remembered how Mother likes to keep important things in her Book of Remembrance, and thought you might like this night letter. We are all looking forward to seeing you. Love from all of us. Tom and Family. "Oh, Alex!" Fanny rushed toward him. Her cheek fitted against his chin. And it was the security of heaven to have his arms around her. Then Alex tipped her chin up and looked mischievously into her eyes. "Do you want me to accept Sam Oldroyd's offer to go fishing?" "Oh, Alex, I would lots rather go to Tom's, if you don't mind." "To Tom's it will be." Alex smiled broadly. The dim light made the moment intimate, but Fanny stole a glance over Alex's shoulder at the new dress still hanging on the door. "It does have that certain sparkle!" Fanny was so glad she had made the dress for the trip. SUDDENLY IT'S SPRING Annie Atkin Tanner Like winter birds in flight, The snow seemed suddenly to disappear. | looked up, a new green was on the hill, And in the garden, before my unbelieving eyes, Was a golden daffodil. 266 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Indira Gandhi, forty-eight, widowed mother of two sons, daughter of the late Jawaharlal Nehru, and long schooled in politics and government, on Wednesday, January 19, was elected Prime Minister of India. She served in the late Lal Bahadur Shastri's Cabinet, as Information and Broadcasting Manager. She was her father's closest confidante. The new Head of State faces many serious problems, including widespread famine conditions; continued disputes with Pakistan over Kashmir; divisions of India's 480 million people along religious and sectional lines; and with the national economy in chags. Miss Alice Crawford Johnston, Social Service Administrator of the Women's Voluntary Service of Great Britain, during her tour of the United States in January, visited Relief Society headquarters in Salt Lake City, and, as a guest of the General Board, she visited Welfare Square, the Mormon Handicraft Shop, and Temple Square. She heard a Tabernacle organ recital, was introduced to the Church Indian Program, and other welfare services. Miss Johnston reported that over 500,000 women in Great Britain are active in voluntary service. Lydia Diaz, one of Puerto Rico's brilliant and ambitious young women, is working her way through college as a visitor's guide at the University of Puerto Rico. This university has a total of 23,000 students. Puerto Rico has four other institutions of higher learning and sixteen vocational schools, having, in all, a total of 37,000 students. Puerto Rico spends a larger proportion of its budget on education than any other country in the western world, including the United States. Miss Laura Bergquist, a senior editor of Look Magazine, and an accredited White House correspondent, recently won the American Academy of Achievement Golden Plate Award for her authentic and excellent reporting of Latin American affairs in 1965, and was also acclaimed winner of the New York Newspaper Guild Page One Award for Magazine photography in 1964. Miss Gertrude Hoffman, specialist in day care service, United States Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C., after making a long and detailed investigation, reports that nearly a million children in the United States are left at home daily without adequate supervision, while both parents are at work. This is more than a tenth of all children under fourteen years old whose mothers are absent from home _ during the day for gainful employment. ''There is no way of measuring the emotional damage suffered by inadequately supervised children, or the later cost in delinquency which results from this failure,'' she says. Mrs. Winthrop Rockefeller of Morrilton, Arkansas, was recently re-elected President of the National Association for Mental Health, Inc. She has been active in the Association since 1959. In the past year she has visited nearly every State in the United States, addressing many division and chapter meetings. Dr. Marie Nyswander of the Rockefeller Institute, New York City, is receiving recognition and praise for her research on methods of combating the narcotic habit. In addition to new medical treatments being investigated, Dr. Nyswander uses social counseling in treating addicts.. 267 EDITORIAL ''The Flowers Appear on the Earth" @ When the season of blossoming returns, each winterbound woman rejoices in the coming of grass and flowers and new leaves and buds upon boughs long accustomed to an etching of the snow. One equinox brings the time of earth's renewal to the Northern Hemisphere, and another time of the earth's turning brings warmth and color and seedtime to the Southern Hemisphere. All who have known the darkness and the whiteness, the barren bough, and the mounded garden, turn their eyes toward a new season—perhaps to a hillside suddenly sprinkled with the earliest yellow blossoms, or to a protected place where the wild primroses open their pointed buds. A woman, on a springtime morning, may become an explorer in the domain of her own garden, a searcher for the first crocus and the earliest hyacinth. Even those who have known deep sorrow or illness or pain find a spiritual renewal when the earth appears in new apparel. Through the long ages, in every land, the woman who is devoted to making her home, indoors and outdoors, a place of beauty, has disciplined herself to appreciation of whatever natural beauty may be in her surroundings, and has become a specialist in the art of beautifying her home with some green and growing plant, or with some bulb or branch that may be induced to wear a crown of blossoms. Many women, by force of circumstances, must live in gray and barren places. One woman, desert-bound, became discontented and told her husband that she could no longer live in a place devoid of beauty. He reminded her of the quietness of the desert, the vast serenity, the evening shadows, and the coral mists of morning. But she was not satisfied. ''Show me one beautiful flower,'' she said, "and | will stay.'' A few weeks later, they walked to a nearby hillside, and there a tall yucca, with a cone of yellow blossoms, graced the dark lava rocks. It was a lesson to the woman, and, ever afterwards, she Volume 53 APRIL 1966 ®@ Belle S. Spafford, President — @ Marianne C. Sharp, First ® Louise W. Madsen, Second e Hulda P. Young, Sec looked for beauty in nature, and she made a pansy plot by the back door of her home, and a circle of petunias by the front steps. Another woman, whose circumstances demanded frequent changes in the homeplace, was a geranium fancier. She experimented with many varieties—fluted leaves, silver-bordered leaves; she rejoiced in pure white single blossoms, and in dark red blooms of imposing size and abiding fragrance. When each time of moving came, she carefully packed her geranium plants, and in each new home, after a period of special care and adjustment, the geraniums bloomed again, and the woman felt that she was at home. The feeling of contentment imbued her family, and they all rejoiced in the belief that home is where the flowers are. Small girls in the home may become delighted with the floral kingdom by exercising ownership and responsibility for a houseplant that responds to regular care and the loving touch. One mother allocated a small parcel of the garden plot to each of her young daughters. The eldest planted a circle of dwarf marigolds, bordered with a rim of red lettuce. The planning of the small garden was an adventure; there was mystery in the feel and the shape of the seeds; the first sprouts were symbols of perfection; and the yellow flowers, eventually appearing, seemed even more radiant against the crinkled, dark red lettuce leaves. It was the girl's own beautiful, delightful garden; and years later, when more sophisticated landscaping appealed to the grown woman, she still remembered with a feeling of great joy, a childhood appointment with springtime. Much of earth's sorrow and disappointment can be lessened by an appreciation of opportunities to establish a degree of beauty in a woman's domain—the home—inside and out. —V. P. C. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Elina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Witkinson Winniefred S$. Manwaring trene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor lrene C. Lloyd Anne R. Giedhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Notes to the Field i} DO YOU CONTEMPLATE A CHANGE OF ADDRESS? If so, please notify The Relief Society Magazine office, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, four weeks in advance, what your new address will be. Be sure to include your old address, or send the address label from one of your magazines. The Post Office does not forward copies of the Magazine without charging additional postage, but the Magazine oftice will send the Magazine to you without interruption, if you promptly notify them of your move. Ees "HE GIVETH HIS BELOVED SLEEP" Christie Lund Coles Let peace fall upon me Let me envision shade and sun Gently as first snow, As my hands grow still, Making a down-dipped night. Calm as a lost midnight Let me not doubt, but know. Moon above the hill. Let me recall briefly Let me sleep as a child A summer morning, cool, After ecstatic play, As dew and quiet water Losing the blinding glare In an amber pool. Of the dream-stilled day. Let me relive moments It is a simple thing to ask, Where stream-waters pass, A simple promise, Lord, to keep, Caressing the brown rocks, Saying the words in quiet prayer: And the spear-pointed grass. "Father in heaven, let me s v 270 Look Fight to the Cancer GREGORY PECK Future Chairman, 1966 Crusade, American Cancer Society, Inc. @ It has been well said that the first thing to save for your old age is you. A generation ago, the concepts of hope and cancer were mutually exclusive. Today, the climate has changed—the climate is hope. The American Cancer Society has announced a stepped-up five-year attack on the six major forms of cancer which cause forty-eight per cent of cancer deaths in this country. Althought many of these cancers are being cured, many more could be cured, a Society spokesman said, if cancers of the six sites were detected early and properly treated. The six sites are the uterus, colon and rectum, breasts, mouth, lungs, and skin. In uterine cancer, the painless, inexpensive ''Pap'' test can detect the disease before it can be seen. If the disease is treated at this stage, the percentage of cure approaches 100 per cent. Some women whose cancers have been detected this early have been cured and have borne children after their cure. About seventy-five to eighty per cent of localized colon and rectum cancer can be detected by a doctor in an office examination with a proctoscope—a slim, lighted tube. A large percentage of these cancers can be cured, and disability prevented, through regular examination. Breast cancer is the most common form of the disease in women. But women themselves can help find it early enough for cure through monthly self-examination—which they can learn from an American Cancer Society film—or from their own doctor. An estimated eighty per cent of lung cancer is caused by cigarette smoking. Thus, some 35,000 lives a year could be saved if Americans did not smoke cigarettes. The American Cancer Society urges teenagers not to start smoking—for the habit, started early, is difficult to break later in life. The percentage of cure of mouth, tongue and other cancers in the mouth could be raised through regular cancer detection examination and proper treatment when cancer is found. Most skin cancer is caused by excessive exposure to sunlight. Incidence of skin cancer could be reduced sharply, if people would protect themselves from this avoidable hazard. While concentrating its attack on these six sites, the Society is, at the same time, planning large increases in research expenditures to find further causes and cures of cancer. Its ultimate purpose is eradicating all forms of cancer. FIGHT CANCER WITH A CHECK-UP AND A CHECK! 271 @ It was two days before her birthday when Amy Barkdall saw the sign tacked on the red brick house. She was trudging up the steep hill, pulling her two small boys in a wagon. The sign said: WASHER FOR SALE—CHEAP. Amy stopped. She was a tall, slender girl with winged eyebrows and wavy brown hair. She had a large bag of laundry slung over her shoulder. She felt a tremor of excitement. J want that washer for my birthday. Then the excitement died. Jeff still had two years of college. She was about to walk on and then the events of the morning at the laundromat came back to her. Four-year-old Chris and the Palmer boy had got in a fight. Threeyear-old Mike had fallen and 272 ee WS YA <a, i bumped his head. She thought desperately, I cannot go through another such morning. It wouldn't hurt to look. She knocked on the back door. After a moment the door opened and a woman stood there. She had a pretty middleaged face, but she looked so sad that Amy's throat tightened. Amy said, "I'm Mrs. Barkdall. Could I please see the washer?" "'You're the first prospect," the woman smiled. "It's in the basement." Amy helped the boys down the stairs. It was a full-length basement with a rubber tiled floor. In the doorway to the large laundry room the woman paused. "T'll sell it for fifty dollars." Amy looked at the washer and excitement made her tremble. It was a sturdy white washer, with a large-sized tub and a wringer of fat rubber rollers. Amy gasped, "Why, it looks new." "It's only eight years old. A month ago my husband bought me an automatic washer and dryer. But I really don't even need that now...." She bit her lip and tears flooded her eyes. "Would you like to buy it?" "Tt's a marvelous bargain." Amy felt almost ill with longing. "But my husband's a student and... Well, you know how it is." "You bet I do." The woman smiled softly. '""Mr. Kincaid was in the building business, and we had such a struggle at first. Even buying a pair of shoes took close figuring." Amy heard a crash and turned. Mike had dumped over a basket of clothes pins. He sobbed forlornly. "Don't scold him." Mrs. Kincaid picked him up, and soothed, "There now, fellow, don't cry." The tears stopped and Mike flirted outrageously. Amy thought, with quick repentance, I'm so tired, I'm an old grouch with my babies. Mrs. Kincaid laughed softly. "I had four boys of my own, such noisy, adorable little boys."' She held Mike tighter. "They're all grown and moved away now." There was an awkward silence, and Mrs Kincaid said. "If I reduced the price of the washer to thirty-five dollars, maybe...." "Thank you, but I couldn't even manage then. Come boys," she said quickly. Another second and she would be crying. She started up the hill again, pulling the boys, and the bag of washing seemed heavier. ResentBIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY ment within Amy flared. In the beginning Jeff had taken the clothes to the laundromat in the evening and _ studied between tubsful, but he couldn't take enough books for reference, so he had tended the boys while she went to the laundromat. Now he didn't even do that. Only thirty-five dollars. If only _ they could manage it somehow. But in her mind's eye, Amy saw the next two years in an all-encompassing flash. There wouldn't be one spare dollar. For a moment Amy wallowed in self-pity. Twice a week she had to tote the laundry up the hill. Her problems weren't even important to Jeff anymore, and he had been in an indifferent mood when he left that morning. SHE reached University Village and paused, feeling, even in her depressed state, a moment of gratitude that their apartment was on the first floor. The first year they had lived on the third floor of the converted army barracks. As Amy opened the door of I-A, the door down the hall opened, and Sally Stoddard stuck her head out. "'What time do you want me tonight, Amy?" Sally's husband, Allan, was a medical student, and _ Sally swelled the family treasury by baby-sitting. Amy remembered that tonight was the lecture at the home of Professor Hopfield. This morning she had looked forward to the event and had made a wide cummerbund of crimson velvet to wear with her black velvet quilted skirt and white blouse. There would be interesting people, and 273 — APRIL 1966 Mrs. Hopfield made such good apple pie. She thought, I'm not going; but she knew she couldn't ask Jeff to stay home. '"We'll leave at 7:45, Sally." Amy opened the door and the clutter of the rooms hit her. This morning she had been proud of their small apartment. They had painted old furniture turquoise, dyed white muslin sheets scarlet, put an array of brightly colored bottles on shelves in the windows. But now it looked shabby and makeshift. How am I going to stand another two years of just existing? She thought wildly. She fed the boys and put them down for naps. She hung the washing on lines placed close together and stretched the length of the hall, hanging the small things at one end, so there was an arched passageway into the bedroom. She was stirring tomato sauce that evening when she heard Jeff's whistle. She thought, "Thank heavens his black mood is past." He came in, a tall lanky man with auburn hair. He kissed her, and she felt happy and breathless and loved. She saw a glow in Jeff's eyes as if a light was turned on inside him. "Jeff, something wonderful has happened!"' "Sure," he said innocently, "the day after tomorrow is your birthday." The two boys came running to pull Jeff into the livine room. She heard them laughing and scuffling. Jeff was in a rare good humor. Maybe it wouldn't hurt just to mention the washer. She hurried into the living room. "Jeff..." and stopped. The 274 Engineer's Magazine had come today. Jeff was lost to her and Chris and Mike. There was a' good crowd all laughing and talking when they reached Professor Hopfield's, and Amy tried to lift her spirits to a party mood, but she still felt blue and depressed. Mrs Hopfield came up to her. She was a small, thin woman in a blue crepe dress. Amy smiled, 'Hello, Mrs Hopfield. How are you?" And Mrs Hopfield said, "I'm glad you like me in blue, dear." Amy wanted to weep. Mrs. Hopfield had forgotten her hearing aid again. The speaker, Dr. Bromly, had a voice that stayed dangerously in the middle register. Amy tried not to listen too intently. She gazed fondly at Professor Hopfield and thought he looked like an elderly Spitz dog, with his fuzzy white hair. But now the speaker's low voice reached her, soothing, somnolent. Jeff shook her, whispering angrily. "You were snoring, Amy." Tears stung her eyes. She thought, darn it, darn it, I'm tired. When the speaker finally finished winding his words into a soft woollen ball, Amy fled to the kitchen to help Mrs. Hopfield, ''Would you like me to cut the pie?" she asked. "No thanks, dear, I'll pass the napkins and you cut the pie." Amy was cutting apple pie when Professor Hopfield came in, his face wreathed with smiles. "Aren't you proud of Jeff?" "Why yes, I...." she stammered. "Winning first prize in.... "In what?" she demanded. "Oh, dear, he hasn't told you." " Professor Hopfield looked distressed. "T'll bet he's keeping it for a birthday surprise. Please tell me!" "He won fifty dollars for his article submitted to the Engineer's Quarterly Contest." Fifty dollars. More than enough for the washer! "Oh, I'm so thrilled." "You won't tell him I told you?" "Not a word. I promise." On the walk home she gave Jeff an amusing account of the morning's activities. Deftly she slipped in the information about the washer. She glanced up to see Jeff staring ahead absorbed in thought and her heart plummeted. Then he said, "Sounds like a good buy." Amy's heart thudded against her ribs. "It's for sale at the red brick house up from the laundromat." "The veranda?" "Yes, that's the one." Jeff began to hum "Happy Birthday to You." His step quickened as if he had made up his mind about something. One with the wide TuHat night she could not sleep. Where would she put the washer? She remembered the large clothes closet. She got quietly out of bed and measured it with a yardstick. Bless the architect! The closet was almost as large as the kitchenette. Next morning she awakened with a start. Jeff wasn't through classes and lab until after one. As soon as he had gone to school she asked Sally, "Please would you be an angel and watch the BIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY boys for about half an hour?" "Of course, Amy." She ran down the hill. If the washer was sold she would slump down dead on Mrs. Kincaid's back porch. But the sign was still there. Mrs. Kincaid smiled when she saw her. "You've come for the washer!" She explained about the prize money. "I let Jeff know about the washer, and how much I want it and he'll be here today, but he isn't through classes until after one. Oh, please could you...?" "There was another woman coming to look at it, but I won't be back from a Singing Mothers' practice until noon. I won't sell the washer, I promise." "Qh, thank you, thank you!" It was 6:15 when Sally told her, "Allan just telephoned to say he was going somewhere with Jeff and they would be late." But of course! Amy thought. Allan has a trailer. He will help Jeff bring the washer home. "Oh, Sally,"' Amy cried. "Aren't husbands a wonderful invention? I'm glad I'm married to mine for time and all eternity!" "What has happened?" Sally dimpled. Amy almost told her about the washer and then decided against it. She wouldn't spoil Jeff's surprise. "Oh, nothing, except that tomorrow is my birthday, and I still believe in miracles." When Jeff came home he was like a small boy trying to keep a secret. As she drifted off to sleep that night she wondered, when will Allan and Jeff bring the washer in? Then she thought, I'm sure they have that all figured out, and fell asleep. The next thing she knew Jeff 275 was shaking her and _ saying: "Happy Birthday, Sweetheart," and the boys were saying, "Get up, Mommy." She jumped out of bed in her red pajamas. She reached the door, ready to shout, "Oh, you darling, you bought the washer!" There was no washer in the room, but on the kitchen table was a large oblong box. For a moment, disappointment stabbed so sharply she almost moaned with pain, and then Jeff grabbed the box and handed it to her. It looked like a package from an exclusive woman's dress shop. A horrible thought darted into her mind but she tried to push it away. "Honey," Jeff explained, "I won a fifty-dollar prize for an article in the Engineer's Quarter- =" "How wonderful, Jeff!" "And I bought something for you I've always wanted you to have." He was almost bursting with excitement. Amy placed the box on the kitchen table. With trembling hands, she untied the string. Inside was a_ tissue wrapped package tied with silver ribbon. The beat of her heart slowed and stopped. Oh, Jeff, you wouldn't... No Jeff.... 276 Finally she parted the tissue paper. She saw pale blue nylon net, pale blue satin. She lifted out a net negligee, an exquisite satin nightgown. She gasped, "Oh, Jeff!"' She wanted to cry, this useless finery. How could you be so stupid! And then she heard V his boyish, proud laugh. "Do you like it, sweetheart?" and _ the angry words stuck in her throat. She could only throw her arms around his neck and sob, "Jeff, Jeff!" "Don't cry, darling,' he said gently. "I know you've always wanted something like this, and someday I'll buy you all the other things that go with them." THERE was a bang on the door and Allan's voice, "Sally is frying pancakes for a birthday girl. Come have some." Jeff said, "We'll there." Amy said, "You go and help Allan set up the card tables. Ill dress the boys and come." She had to get control of herself. After he had gone, Amy stood holding the nightgown in her hands, tears running down her cheeks. Chris pulled at her skirt. "Mommy crying....?" "Yes, I'm howling!" "T'll tell you what I'm going to do. Monday your Mommy is going to return this - - this frippery, and get the money back aid...." "Oh, don't do that, child!" Amy swung around to see Mrs. Kincaid standing in the doorway. "TI came to see why your husband didn't call about the washer, the door was open...." "My husband didn't call for the washer because he spent his be right prize money on... This! He needs a suit, the boys need shoes." ' "T know, dear." Mrs. Kincaid said sympathetically, "husbands can be very exasperating." "He buries his nose in_ his books and he doesn't even see my problems. Sure, be a good sport, help him get his degree. Well, I'm going to tell him a few facts about my life!" "Don't make a mistake!" Mrs. Kincaid said sharply. "I did that years ago. Sam gave me an expensive quilted robe for Christmas. I told him plenty!" her voice faltered and then hurried on. "I warned him never to do such a silly thing again. I took the robe back, and with the money I bought shoes and house dresses and a heavy iron skillet." Mrs. Kincaid walked over to the table and held up the sheer negligee. "I hurt his pride so terribly that he never gave me anything frivolous again. Two weeks ago he died and...." Tears ran down the older woman's cheeks. "I wish I had understood then that men are the most romantic creatures in the world. They like to believe they possess a woman so helpless and fragile that she must be wrapped in satin and furs. This period of scrimping and _ struggling will pass, and your husband will be a success, but when it is over, will he still see you as his beautiBIRTHDAY PRESENT FOR AMY ful and precious queen he took to the temple?" Amy looked at the froth of nylon and knew that Jeff didn't see her at all in terms of diapers and washers. She prayed, oh, let me always walk with beauty in his eyes. She said, "Thank you for telling me all this, Mrs. Kincaid."' "Why don't you come to my house and use my new automatic washer and dryer, Mrs. Barkdall? If you wish, you may pay me the same amount you pay at the Laundromat. There are boxes of toys that belonged to my children. Oh, I would so enjoy having your babies around." The loneliness in her voice caught at Amy's throat. She said, "Thank you, Mrs. Kincaid. Ill be there at ten day after tomorrow." After the older woman had gone, Amy leaned against the table, looked around, and _ her world righted itself. It was a gay, smart apartment with lots of personality and hadn't they been clever to do it all so cheaply! This was her birthday and the Sabbath. Her heart quickened with anticipation. They would have breakfast with their friends, and they would walk to Sunday 'School with their little boys. They would smile at each other, two people, a man and his wife, still very much in love! BRIDAL SPRING Pearle M. Olsen Expected beauties warm our ready hearts With things familiar in spring's lavish days Of blossoming in bridal finery— The drifting petals, choirs of lilting birds— And bees in winged ballet Give us delight—in bountiful degree! 277 ry NO PETAL LOST Blanche Kendall McKey There was an April once so rich with gold— The sun, the dandelion carpet, and the tulip heads— That children ran and leapt and threw their balls Above the hilltops into the deep, deep blue And squealed as they came bouncing back to earth. They tossed the littlest child so high in the swing. That her small toes touched an overhanging bough, Ravishingly pink and green, and fragrant beyond Any other perfume she had ever known. They raced And laughed. And fell upon the tender grass for breath, So wildly throbbed their sun-borne April joy! And now, as through the years, sweet April walks again, Her shy face almost hidden by her gleaming hair: As her green robe sweeps the brown, lilies spring, The magnolia bursts and the white dogwood, With its reminding cross,. Cups to the sky.; Azaleas, lavender, cerise, and pink, riot For room to reach the sun. And slowly, bit by bit, The long climb lives again: the laughing and the weeping; The faces changed; the faces here no more; The wrestling with ''Must,'' the never answered "'Why?'' Yet gently breathes the lilac-scented air: Some things there are that never change— The hawthorne bush, its pink buds wrapped in green; The upward straining of a yearning heart; —_— No petal lost; no bird song stilled for long. And in a flash, the struggle shines with purpose; The anguish shapes to wisdom. How gently Sifts to earth this April peace! APPLE BLOSSOMS Luoma Phetes |: "Look Mom: Ge Hundred Uullars® Helen H. Trutton @ The screen door slammed shut with a loud bang, rapid little footsteps echoed down the hall, and Loren stood looking up at her, his brilliant dark eyes flashing with excitement. "Mom, Mom, guess what?" he yelled. "See what I found. I think it's a hundred dollar bill, and it's all mine, 'cause I found it. It is, isn't it?" Faye stared down at him from her perch atop the ladder, and let the curtain she had been trying to hang float mutely to the floor. "You found a—hundred dollars?" she asked incredibly, reaching out her hand. "Here, let me see it." She took the crisp bill in her hands and turned it over several times. "It is, or looks genuine all right, but where did you get it?" "By the Harris Grocery Store, lying by the curb. It is mine, isn't it, Mom? Finders keepers! Richard kept my best marble once because he found it." She watched him disappear around the door, without waiting for her answer, and return a moment later carrying a catalogue. "T can buy a bicycle now." He bubbled over with enthusiasm. "When I'm a little older, I can have a paper route. We could sure use the money, Mom." "Hold on a second, honey," she said, hurrying down the ladder steps. "We have to find the owner. It isn't yours you know. The person who lost it must feel dreadful." The stars left Loren's eyes. "I —TI guess that's more money than we've ever had, except maybe when Daddy was alive." Faye squeezed him tightly against her. "We would be in rather serious circumstances if we lost that much. One hundred dollars is a lot of money. We might check with Mr. Harris...." "T already asked him if anybody in his store lost anything. It was almost on his property." "What did he say?" "He said, 'No, not that I know of—so guess it's finders keepers, losers weepers, son.' He said that." "But we still have...." "But anyone might say it belonged to them," Loren protested. 'How can we find the real owner? Oh, Mom," he cried suddenly, letting his body sag against her, "I need a bicycle. I could...." 279 APRIL 1966 "IT know, my son," she said, cradling him tenderly in her arms. Then she wiped the hot tears from his cheeks, and smiled down at him. "We'll report it to the police. Whoever lost the money will naturally check with them first off."' Loren blinked away one last stubborn teardrop, his eyes brightened. "And if the owner doesn't show up?" "Don't build up your hopes, dear," she said. "T'll call Sergeant Thomas right now."' She moved away from him, and stepped into the living room. She stopped at the window, suddenly caught up in the enchantment of the lovely scene outside. The gnarled old elm tree was dressed in its new spring finery, such an impressive sight. Dennis always used to insist she had fallen in love with the place simply on the strength of the old elm tree. The day they had signed the contract to buy the house, they had engraved their names on the trunk of the tree like two young lovers. Oh, they were so gay and full of hopes and dreams then. Now it seemed a million years ago. Unconsciously, she ran her slim fingers through her attractively coiffured black hair. Topay was Saturday, the day she and Dennis always spent working in the yard. When they were finished with the day's labor, they would sit under the big sprawling branches of the elm tree and talk over any problems that needed solving. Dennis used to say, "Then we can start Sunday out fresh." If only the three of them could gather around the tree in their old familiar places now, Dennis could help Loren 280 understand why he could not keep the money just because he had found it. He had such a way with him, like the letters he had left.... "Mom!" Loren's accusing voice startled her. "You haven't even called the police yet." "Oh, dear." She flushed. "I haven't, have I?" She started to pick up the receiver, then let it fall back on the cradle. "Why not go down to the station?' she asked. 'We could leave the money there." "T hope I get to keep the bill, Mom," he said solemnly. "Maybe a real rich man lost it, and he'll never miss it. I've an idea, we could wait to see if someone misses it, and puts an ad in the paper. What do _ you _ think, Mom?" Faye reached out, and took his hand firmly in hers. "Son, we have to exhaust every means of locating the rightful owner. You do understand that, don't you? It would be terribly dishonest to just wait, hoping no one advertises."' "It would?" he asked. "Yes," she said. "That would be taking advantage of someone's misfortune." She hesitated a moment, then turned to him. "Do you mind if I read you the letter Daddy left for your eighth birthday again?" she asked. "It might...." Loren looked eagerly at her, his face flushing slightly as he moved to her side. "Dad's sure smart isn't he, Mom? I can hardly wait until my next birthday to get another one." "Yes, very. Now, would you like....?" "T'll get the letter," he said, disappearing around the hallway entrance. "I know exactly where I keep it." Faye sank down upon the davenport. She didn't blame her son for being excited at finding a hundred dollars; any child just tured eight would be quite as thrilled. But still she couldn' t little dis- " "finders keepers, cern for the loser. Or was she being too critical? Of course he would understand when they found the owner. Children usually had to see the evidence to identify their feelings, and the person who had lost the money was almost intangible in his mind. Loren was barely eight. She looked up when he darted back into the room, and snuggled up against her on the davenport. "Here you are, Mom," he said handing her the envelope. "Um ready." She took the letter from his hands, and read in a low voice. Dearest Son: Today you are eight years old, a very important year in your life. You will have reached the age of accountapility. We talked many times about what it means, and you've learned of it in Sunday School and Primary. It's a great privilege to go into the waters of baptism, son. But it will also mean more responsibility for you. Bea good, honest boy, and you'll grow UP to be a Watch over Mother. Mind her, and others over You: Be happy the two of you, I love you both so much. Love, Dad. Loren took the letter from her trembling hands. "Every year Vil get a letter from Daddy until?'m how old?" he asked. "Twenty-one." "J don't ever want to get past "LOOK MOM: ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS" twenty-one," he said, close to tears. "Never!" Faye stood up and caught his hand in hers. "We'd better get down to the station. Maybe the person is there already. We wouldn't want to keep him waiting, now would we?" He looked at the opened catalogue. "No, Mom, I guess not." Poor child, she thought, with his vivid little imagination, he undoubtedly spent the hundred dollars five minutes after he found it. One of these days when she could see her way clear, Loren would have a bicycle of his own. Right now other things had to come first, like bills. Almost every other boy in the neighborhood owned a bicycle. Sue draped a shawl over her shoulders and picked up her purse. "Tt's such a delightfully warm spring day," she said, "shall we walk to the station? It isn't far, hardly worth getting the car out of the garage." "Sure, let's do," he answered. "JT can hold the money longer." "JT hope the owner hasn't been too snconvenienced," she said, hurrying down the steps. "I can imagine his concern." Loren did not answer, but amused himself by petting every friendly dog that bounced down the sidewalks from the houses they passed. Once he stopped and watched a robin tug with an uncooperative worm who apparently had no desire to be devoured, and he laughed gleefully. Then he sobered, and looked up at her thoughtfully. "Who said, 'losers weepers, finders keepers, anyway, Mom?" She stopped. "T don't know, really." 281 APRIL 1966 "'Doesn't it mean whoever finds something keeps it?" "T suppose it means that if the finder can't locate the owner, the loser would weep over it, depending on what was lost. But you have to try and find the loser— that's important." 'Not everyone tries, though, do they?" "If he or she wants to do the right thing, they do." "Does it depend on what you find? If I found ten dollars instead of one hundred...?" "The amount isn't important. We'd still have to report the fiavd?? "Oh," he said, and they walked the rest of the way to the station without speaking. Often she glanced down at him. He was such a precious miniature image of his father. He was too young to realize the effort that went into that letter and all the others Dennis had written in the final days of his illness. Nor could he begin to understand the love that was contained in each one of them, but someday he would. Sergeant Thomas glanced up from his desk when they entered the room, and motioned them over to his side, with a quizzical smile. "Now what would be bringing my neighbors to the station?" ue asked, and then his smile turned to concern. "Is there anything wrong?" Loren didn't wait for her to speak, but swung up to the desk and laid the hundred dollar bill near Sergeant Thomas' hand. "I found this," he said, pointmg to the money, "over by the Harris Grocery Store by the curb, and Mom says finders aren't keepers until we see if we can find the real owner." 282 "Have you had any inquiries?" Faye asked the startled policeman. "He just found it today." He gave a low whistle, and turned the bill over in his hands. "One hundred dollars? That's a lot of money to lose. No, not a soul has reported the loss yet." "How long?" Loren began.... The Sergeant interrupted. "Probably just a few hours, maybe less before the owner misses it. Not too many folks around here are so wealthy they wouldn't discover a shortage like that." "You do have a waiting period don't you?" Faye asked. "The loss may not be noticed immediately." "Yes, a week, on some items, but on something this important, I expect we should hold it thirty days. You know, someone might have tucked the bill away in his billfold, and not look for it in days." "That long?" Loren exclaimed. "T'm_ afraid so,' Sergeant Thomas replied. ""We do want to give the loser every opportunity, don't we?" Loren ducked his head. "Yes, Sir." The kindly policeman walked to the door with them, holding Loren's hand. 'We appreciate people like you," he said, smiling at Faye, and then bending down to Loren, he slipped his arm around his shoulder. "Thanks, son. You're going to be a fine man just like your father." Loren tore his gaze away from a young boy riding by on a bicycle, and swallowed. "Every year I'll get a letter from Dad until I'm twenty-one." "And each one you'll appreciate more," he answered. "Oh, Loren, I'll let you know just as soon as we hear about the money." "Can—may I call you every day, too?" Sergeant Thomas laughed. 'Of course, as often as you like. Goodbye." They hurried home. It was all she could do to keep up with her young son. "I've got to be home to answer the telephone when Sergeant Thomas alls," he explained his haste. "Oh, Mom, if he dosen't call?" "But surely he will. Don't dream about spending the money, dear. One of these days, we'll buy you a bicycle." "When?" he asked eagerly. "T expect by the time you are ready for a paper route." Loren rushed ahead of her into the house, and darted over to the telephone. "TI'll call the station," he said, ''in case Sergeant Thomas has tried to get me." Faye laughed in spite of the serious little face before her. '""No, no, not so soon. He'll call. I doubt if you'll have to wait long."' But she was wrong. One day passed, followed by another, with no news. And now just one week of waiting was left. She leaned back in her chair at the breakfast table wondering about it. Maybe they weren't doing all they could. It was possible he or she hadn't thought of checking with the police. She touched Loren's hand across the table. "Son," she said, "'we could advertise. We could say something like this: 'Will person who lost money recently, contact police station, identifying same?' What do yeu think?" He didn't answer for a long while. Finally he said, "O. K., Mom." "LOOK MOM: ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS" The last few days were the worst it seemed to her. Sergeant Thomas agreed to the advertisement. Nothing new happened except Loren became more excited, his appetite waned, his sleep was restless. It isn't fair, she thought, to put a youngster through such suspension. That saying should be "finders weepers." Her household had suffered more than the loser, or so it appeared. Ar last, the time was up. Sergeant Thomas called early the next morning, after the final date, in a cheerful mood. 'Tell Loren he has complied with the law; he's the legal owner." She thanked him. "TI do feel badly, Sergeant," she said. "I was in hopes...." "We all were. Will you be down soon?" "Yes,"' she answered, 'Loren will be anxious." Soon the two of them were walking down the familiar street to the station. Loren was unusually quiet. She couldn't read his mind, of course, but she supposed he was overwhelmed at receiving so much money, and she hoped he was thinking of the unfortunate loser. But, child that he was, his enthusiasm suddenly skyrocketed as they entered the station and he caught sight of Sergeant Thomas. He dashed unrestrained to his side, and exclaimed happily, "I can buy a new bicycle now, Sergeant, and Mom can have the rest of the money." The policeman frowned, looked from a man sitting at his left, to Loren, and then to her. "TI... I,"' he began, "last night ended the waiting period, but...." 283 APRIL 1966 Faye looked at the other man. "The money belongs to him, is that it?" she asked. Sergeant Thomas cleared his throat. "Yes, but I don't know. He came by a little too late. Legally...." Fayre faced the man. "Why?" she pleaded, "why didn't you come forward long ago? Why did you have to cause my boy all this anxiety?" She put her hand over her face a moment. Hadn't she been praying the rightful owner would appear? "'Forgive me, Sir," she said calmly now. "It's just that we've been under strain." "T'm sure you have, Ma'am, I'm sorry," he said, standing up and indicating that she sit in the chair he had occupied. 'I missed the money right off, but I thought my friend had taken it." He sighed deeply. "I was too hurt to ask him, and then this morning, I noticed the ad." He walked toward the door. "Thank you for putting that notice in the paper. I would never have known." "Tt's yours," Faye said quickly. His eyes brightened for an instant, then he shrugged. '"Legally, I think it belongs to your boy." Everyone looked at Loren. Faye put her hand to her mouth to stifle a cry. He was just a child, barely out of the stage of me being the only one who mattered. He couldn't possibly make a right choice at his age— the temptation was too great. It wasn't fair.... Quickly she arose to her feet in protest, but Sergeant Thomas motioned her to be quiet. "What's your opinion, Loren?" the officer asked. 284 He didn't answer immediately. She wondered if he had heard him. Maybe he was in shock; she knew such things were possible. Finally, after what seemed an eternity to her, he took the money, and handed it to the man. "I'm sure glad your friend wasn't a thief," he said thoughtfully. "That would be terrible!" "Thank you, boy, thank you," the old fellow said over and over again. "But...1... 1." "It belongs to you,' said. The man was at the door now. He turned back to Loren, and with a twinkle in his eyes, said. "Didn't I hear you say you wanted a bicycle, young man?" "Someday I'll own one," he said confidently. ""Mom said so." The elderly gentleman leaned against the door casing, and chuckled to himself. "I bought one a few months back," he said. "Figured I'd learn to ride it, but shucks, I'm too old; it's dangerous. I was just wishing for a lad —TI'll bring it by the station, and you can have it," he said, and he was gone, shuffling down the street, without waiting for an answer. "Mom, Mom, did you hear?" Loren rushed to her side. "A real bicycle. Oh, Mom!" "Yes," she said, in a barely audible voice. "I heard." Then smiling down at him, she said a little shakily. "Today, Son, you went a long way up that ladder —of becoming a real fine man. Shall re: we go home?" 3 Loren inside and out > t. Pay =. °. Rose j U7 ame she knew! T as large ew. Art, her pride and joy creations; at grew alms on high, ers there to at she akens in the - ove i BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 1 egg 1 c. Blueberries, drained 2 c. Flour, sifted 3 tsp. Baking powder 14 tsp. Salt 1 c. Milk 4 tbsp. Shortening 1 tsp. Lemon flavoring 1/3 c. Sugar Grease muffin tins. Set oven at 400°. Beat egg. Melt shortening, add to milk, combine with beaten egg. Sift dry ingredients, saving one tbsp. Flour to shake over berries. Combine liquid and dry ingredients, mix, using about 15 strokes. Fold in floured berries. Batter should be lumpy. Spoon into tins and bake 20 minutes. Yields approximately 18 muffins. May be frozen in plastic bags or wrapped in foil paper. FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 1 pint commercial sour cream 1 large can crushed pineapple pinch salt 2 tbsp. Drained chopped maraschino 14 c. Chopped nuts _ cherries 2 medium size mashed bananas 1/3 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice Drain pineapple and reserve juice for sauce. Mix all together in order given. Place paper muffin cups in muffin tins. Fill cups. Cover with foil paper. Freeze in deep freeze overnight. The paper cups filled with fruit may then be removed and stored in plastic bags in the deep freeze. Remove from deep freeze and place on serving plate on lettuce or water cress about 15 minutes before Sevvins Yields approximately 16. This salad is delicious as a dessert with cubed fresh fruit on top. SAUCE Bring pineapple juice to a boil. For each cup of juice, take approximately one scant teaspoon of cornstarch which has been dissolved in a little water. Add sufficient liquid cornstarch to thicken sauce. Add a dash of cayenne pepper. Cool. Do not refrigerate. Spoon on top of salad. RECIPES FOR A LUNCHEON CARROTS-TURNIPS ENGLAISE Peel equal quantity of carrots and turnips. Simmer each in separate cooking pots until tender. Drain separately. Mash each well. Combine the carrots and turnips and generously add butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Pour in casserole, dot with butter, and heat before serving. May be prepared the day before, or a couple of days before. Serve the above menu with a thick slice of honey-glazed ham. SPECIAL CHICKEN SALAD 1/3 c. Chicken broth 2 c. Cubed chicken 4 tsp. Salt and 4 tsp. Pepper 2/3 c. Mayonnaise 2 c. Seasoned wild rice, cooked 1 c. Chopped celery 2 tbsp. White vinegar Simmer a 4 to 5 pound roasting chicken in approximately 3 cups of water with One medium size onion and 2 stalks of celery, salt and pepper. Simmer until tender. Strain broth, cool, and chill so that all grease may be removed. Remove chicken from bones and cut into bite-size pieces, chill. Cook rice and cool. Mix salad in order given. Serve in a large bowl garnished with lettuce. May be mixed the day before. On each table place bowls of green, butter-coated chocolate mints (purchased at a candy store), and plates of cookies made from the following recipe: ALMOND COOKIES Cream 1 c. Of butter and 1 c. Of 1 egg sugar 1 c. Almond paste Y, c. Each of slivered almonds and 14 c. Flour coconut 14 tsp. Each of soda and almond VY, tsp. Baking powder flavoring Mix in order given. Drop from teaspoon onto ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 350° about 15 minutes or until delicately brown. Bd AND ERRATUM (Recipe for Deep Dish Cherry Pudding) It has been brought to our attention that an error was made in the printing of the recipe for ''Deep Dish Cherry Pudding,'' which appeared on page 117 of the February issue of the Magazine. The corrected recipe reads as follows: 41% qts. Pitted red cherries 31% c. Sugar 114 c. Cornstarch i b. Mace 5 c. Sugar 2 cups shortening 1 tbsp. Salt 8 eggs 21% qts. Pancake mix 1 qt. Milk 287 @ Following the marriage of each of our children, my husband and I took a 'wedding trip' much needed and highly recommended for all parents as a recuperative measure. We returned from the last such vacation we would make in silence. I wandered through the house, room by room, and had not so much a dejected, lonely feeling as one of frustration. Viewed _ dispassionately, our home was in a shabby, down-atheels, unattractive, middle-aged slump. I turned to my husband, "My mother had an unusual system for this time of life. Whenever the last child of a neighbor's family married, my mother gave the parents a shower. She invited all the neighbors and friends in for an afternoon of visiting and a shower." My spouse made no response. I thought the situation over for a time. Obviously, I could not give myself a shower, nor could I suggest to neighbors that one 288 might be appreciated. Finally, I decided I would make a second hope chest and I made myself sit down and list things I intended to accumulate. I was in a department store when the towels caught my eye. I had been silently longing for a pink tile bathroom, with goldcolored fixtures and apple green accents. I selected warm pink towels with gold stripes and a lighter pink to initial in gold. I also found some in solid gold color; these to be initialed in green. J didn't buy haphazardly. I had been using towels all my life, but knew very little about what makes towels good towels. I sought out a buyer and talked with her about towels, and I learned from her how to distinguish a good towel from an inferior one. I learned that a pastel-colored towel is more absorbent than a dark one, because of the dye. I could not lift a heavy towel, when wet, without strain, so, under the buyer's guidance, I selected thick, close terry weaves in medium weight and size. When I got my towels home, I wrapped them in blue tissue and boxed them in a large cardboard box. I taped the edges of the box and labeled it, then stored it ona shelf in the basement. Next came the sheets. I love flowered ones, but frugality dictated white. Again, before making my final decision, I talked with the buyer. I learned I could get sheets made so well that I would not have to bend the mattress to get them over the corners. I looked for these easyfitting corners type. I changed my mind about colored bed linen. I bought stripes galore, with matching cases and those wonderful over-all patterns in gay flowers. I learned ways of making linen ensembles. If I bought two top sheets with fitted comers, I could reverse them, using the fitted ends for the top undersheet and the bottom topsheet. This takes the wear from one sheet and makes them last longer. I went all out for nylon for company sheets. These are a summertime delight, for they are cool. In fact, a nylon undersheet is the best buy in summer comfort I have found, but for our climate it is a bit too cool for winter. It is like sleeping on silk —smooth, cool, luxurious. I really indulged in nylon pillow cases. I have plenty of lovely hand-embroidered and crocheted cases, but I use them only for show. I stocked my hope chest with nylon pillow cases, but decided to try out two pair. Using soap for nylons, I wash and rinse SECOND HOPE CHEST them. I hang them in the air and, in about fifteen minutes, they are ready to use on the bed. I had made quilts during the depression years, but had quite forgotten about them, replacing the worn ones with blankets. When I found a book of quilting patterns in a neighborhood store, I paid my pennies for it and spent the evening ignoring TV while I gloated and dreamed. Imagination raced far ahead of accomplishment, and I finally burst forth, "(Maybe I can't have a shower, but I certainly can have a quilting bee." "Oh, come now." Old Patience tried to discourage me. "'No one ever has quilting bees anymore." | know that when husbands make a statement wives are supposed to forget the idea birthing in their minds. A week later I unfolded the quilt top I had sewed together from scraps of material from the "someonemight-need-it" box. My husband looked it over carefully and commented, "You've got that one block about a quarter-inch out of line." I'm not mathematical, and that quarter-inch I considered mere poetic license. That quilting bee was a real fun session. I still had my oldfashioned quilting frames, so, using dining room chairs padded against damage, we set up the quilt and sewed fine stitches all day long. I'd heard of the new quilting frames that roll, and wanted a pair of them, but these old ones let the quilt stretch out full length for the quilting, showing its lovely design. I used a dacron batt because in 289 APRIL 1966 our climate, unless you use a dryer, it is quite difficult to find "quilt drying weather," and I am old-fashioned enough to like wind-dried bedding. The new synthetics give warmth without weight and launder, backing was of good-grade cotton broadcloth, guaranteed color fast. I had invited five friends to come to the bee and, thimbles riding high, they were there by ten in the morning. Four worked at quilting, one to a side, and we other two spanned the quilters. There is something soul-satisfying about a quilting bee with friends, and eating together. Not only is an expressive work of art accomplished during the day, but friendships are deepened and hallowed, problems are shared, and solutions given through the alchemy of understanding and sympathy. It is really a wonderful therapy. At four o'clock the bee was over, and the quilt was almost finished. It was beautiful. After the "goodbyes and thank yous" were said, I noticed a small package on the TV. Thinking one of the quilters had forgotten it, I picked it up. There was a note on it: "A consolation prize for the first person to catch a toe in our stitches." Quilting has grown into a wonderful hobby for the six of us. We make many quilts, from pieced beauties to lovely satin ones, and all our homes display them proudly. I, however, have reserved my loveliest quilts, wrapped and boxed, with the other linens. My husband was duly impressed by our products of industry. He showed them to everyone, until our new grandchild's picture took over. In fact, stirring through the mending box, he found materials he liked and busied himself on an _ off-day, cutting blocks for his own quilt. He sewed his pattern and made a nice top, mannish and geometric. We went together to get the batt and lining, for he would not shop for them alone. We put the quilt on the frames, and with a sheepish look he produced a large thimble, threaded a needle and started to quilt. I was puzzled but impressed; this was the man who couldn't sew on a button. I left him to his quilting and busied myself elsewhere; in three minutes two seconds, came the call for help. "How the dickens do you women sew upside-down stitches?" I hadn't expected to have a quilting bee the next day, but I cancelled appointments and the friends who could come gave me a hand with the quilting, and we finally got it finished and off. It is a beautiful quilt, and my husband explains that he made it, "all but the backhand quiltG ". Ing PRELUDE TO ROSES Kathryn Kay April's faucets Leak and burst, May becomes her plumber, All of June's roots quench their thirst, Stretch, and fo! It's summer! 290 . ') de 4 Genevieve Van Wagenen ® 1 love April with its golden daffodils and forsythia, its crocus and purple violets—colors of royalty. April, month of hope and promise—symbol of the resurrection. | love April for its return of green to the blade of grass, the leaf to bush _ and tree. The premier opening of flower buds, the return of birds, with their, songs and nest building industry. | love April with her newborn babies—lambs, calves, and colts with wobbly legs and adorable faces. | love the profuse display of mother love expressed by the animal kingdom. April is a wondrous panorama of nature's obedience to God's command, ''Be fruitful.'' | love the freshness of April air, the blue of sky, with bouffant clouds toedancing by. The dew that lingers long beneath a gentler sun. | love the feel of exhilaration from the waking soil, the gentle falling rain. | love the fragrant furrowed earth, dark and moist; with white gulls hovering low—a study in contrast and design. | love April, with her fruit trees, bridal gowned and bewitching with perfume. The cuddly pussy willows in their swaying deckered beds. The swelling streams —adventure bound. The weeping willow's fresh dyed wig of yellow green. Her hair color is no secret, she wants the world to know how gay she feels. | love April for ambition that it stirs within the farmer's breast to plow and plant and cultivate. For new energy bestowed on homemakers to clean and beautify. | Jove April for the exuberance, happiness, and joyous activity it inspires in youth. For thanksgiving and gratitude it prompts in maturity. For freedom from winter's cold and icy grasp. For wondrous thoughts, that turn to love. | love April, for then the saints meet in General Conference. The faithful gather from countries far and near, to hear God's prophet mouthpiece, here on earth. Humbly they gather, willing to be instructed; seeking to be inspired and stimulated by God's chosen leaders. Yes, | love April for many things: for my wonderful Savior; for this beautiful world he created; for his great and willing sacrifice for all mankind; for the assurance of a resurrection; for the restored gospel and plan of salvation that make life glorious, full of purpose and meaning; for living prophets and continuous revelation. | love April.; 291 Make a Hickey Wilma B. Lichfield @ We are all interested in stretching the clothing budget, and each new technique we learn gives us the joy of creative accomplishment. My favorite black dress, which still fits me well, and can be washed in the machine, was getting too shabby to wear for best, so, to brighten it up for wearing at home, | made several dickeys. Some of them were triangular in shape and made with attached collars. Others were cut to fit a V neckline. Snaps were sewed on the dress, and in corresponding positions on the dickeys, so that they could be attached and removed quickly, and still be held neatly in place. If a dress is of solid color, attractive dickeys could be cut from material of a contrasting color, from prints (including Paisley), polka dots, plaids, or even knitted material, such as a turtleneck sweater, if it is made of cotton or rayon material. Often we have a favorite blouse, only partly worn, and by cutting out the sleeves, the blouse can be used as a dickey, giving a fresh, clean touch to a _ dark-colored dress. Dickies can be worn, also, with two-piece suits, with cardigan sweaters, or with plain shift dresses. I Love Patches Joan N. Ahlman @ Whenever I see a regular little fellow with large loving patches on the knees of his jeans, a warm feeling comes over me toward him and his mother. These patches say that he is a completely normal, lively, active youngster—we wouldn't want children any other way—and that his mother cares about the clothes he wears. Ae SSS NN In the Patch Parade, mothers can LS S: = Sy be classified in one of three categories: ¢ A. The Hasty-Waster, who can't be bothered with patching when even a small hole appears, discards the article which might still have months of wear if only it were patched, and buys a new garment. Her children may always look as if they just stepped out of a bandbox, but what a waste! B. The Holey-er-than-thou-er, who constantly detects holes and worn spots, won't take that step to stitch, but endlessly lets her children go mendlessly about with that more-than-casual look. No doubt about it, she saves money, but what good is frugality without the right kind of pride? C. The Stitch-in-Timer, who, as she sews, reaps the satisfaction that her children look neat and well-cared for, even though there may be a patch here or a mend there. She exhibits pride, and by her thrift, she has saved pennies that soon add up to dollars, which can be put aside for education, missions, etc. How wonderful it would be if every mother could be in this "C" class. Unlike the '""Wonderful One Hoss Shay," clothes do have points of strain that become worn, even though the rest of the garment is still in good condition, so it is wisdom to patch these spots. It may seem to some that patching is a colorless, uncreative task, but by classifying herself as a "fabric physician,' a homemaker can have the satisfaction of adding days, weeks, or months to the life of an ill piece of clothing. As I continue to ponder over patches, I believe if more women became patch-conscious, there would be a definite lift in the quality of home and community life. If a woman is conscientious about patching toggery, this habit will soon extend to mending linens, furniture, meals, and all things about the home, leading to more frugal living. I also love the "patch system" our Heavenly Father has provided for us. Our lives, compared to a garment, cannot be like the clothing that the wasteful homemaker casts aside when a small hole appears. We have only one mortal life to live, and free agency enables us to choose whether or not we wear a life that is torn and unmended, or accept the philosophy of patching to renew our lives. Through the atonement of Jesus Christ, we may patch up what may have once been a spiritually tattered life, by sincere repentance. Like the expert invisible weaver who can make a torn garment look new again, we, through repentance, can do the same for our lives, because the Lord has said, '"Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more' (D&C 58:42). I hope you, too, will be able to join me in saying "I Love Patches." TY UTI 293 ba a - — Paintings Make Every Day Beautiful Jennette s. Hadley, Boise, Idaho, began Painting after six of her eight children had Married and left the home. In her girlhood she had Studied art at. Ricks College, and when, in her later years, she found leisure time, she remem. Fairs, and some of them are hu & in the Relief Society room of the Letha Ward. Chapel in Weiser Stake. In addition to scenics, Mrs. Hadley paints animals and since her Marriage. Recently, she moved to Boise, where she makes her home with her husband and two youngest children. 294 Sylvia Probst Young @ Spring was usually late in coming to our valley, but, finally, when the last fringes of snow were gone and a warm wind stirred the leafing willows, we knew that winter was done and the wonderful waking season had returned. On such a sun-bright day, when Saturday's chores were finished, we would trip off to the low hill next to our meadow, and there, the wild daffodils—a host of them—with delicate, yellow heads swaying gently, stood waiting to greet us. Lt was a moment of breathtaking ecstasy, standing on the brow of the hill, overlooking a sea of flower golden loveliness. How eagerly we picked our aprons full of the bright blossoms to bring back to our mothers. The daffodils were a symbol of earth's beauty, of the beauty of all returning things—an April brook, a flowering dogwood, a winging blackbird. Remembering that childhood experience, | have tried to be aware of beauty everywhere, not only in the wonders of nature, but in the lives of people | meet everyday. | see the dedication of a young doctor who spends hours of his time, without monetary compensation, bringing comfort and happiness to the old, forgotten people in a nearby institution; the patience of a gentle teacher working with handicapped children; the selflessness of a widowed mother who works extra hours so that her children may gain an education. And | see all the courageous ones who face the storms of adversity and loneliness and go uncomplainingly forward. The old man who brings eggs to me counts them with gnarled, rough hands, but his are the hands of an honest, good man, and in them | see the beauty of strength. Through the deep, dark eyes of a teenage girl—eyes bright as stars, lighted with anticipation—I see the world in rainbow colors. Then there are times, in the quietness of a chapel, when | have listened to the voice of an aged prophet, and his gentle face, his words of wisdom lift my spirit. He is a portrait of peace, and his shining countenance reflects a life of devotion to a cause greater than himself. Looking to him | find a spiritual beauty that fills my soul. So all around me, everywhere, | can find beauty if | am aware of it—by dawn and starlight, with each day, each changing season. And for all who are thus aware, life cannot be made commonplace, for they will walk with joy and sing on a hill of daffodils. 295 Spiro Clara Horne Park @ | love poetry—for the feeling of bigness in the world that it reveals, showing the smallness of my conception, visible to me as | read. | love it for the imagination it stirs within me, for the remembrance of similar situation and gratification | remember from my youth. Past experiences | see with enlarged vision—the impression of my first view of ocean waves dashing, tumbling rhythmically obedient to the Creator's order —thus far shalt thou go and no farther until the word be given. | love every poet who inspires the feeling of greatness within me— who fires my determination to excel in my world in spite of my small desires for limited usefulness. | love the rhythm of words, the music in them which makes me catch my breath from their lovely intonations—the flash of genius | perceive in the artist's hand; the flow of another's words expressing sympathy and love of fellow men. | am a better person for having been able to share another's thought, to catch his heartbeat in his creation, and still my own heart to understanding and sympathy. This inspiration j! Cannot afford to miss. >... 4 ~ ta - w 2 - | love poetry for the lift it gives me toward the infinite. The poss ties it stirs in my imagination—the knowledge it gives me that, proper determination and personal effort | may, one day, see the ¢ of heaven. | love poetry as | love to view the greatness in nature—the vast of mountains, the freedom of a waterfall that plays in the sunlight throws its millions of bubbles into the air where the rainbow ca reach. The rhythm, the music, the part of heaven spared to us upon which we feed our hungry imagination and grow in grace and beauty lifts us as with wings to a celestial world of spiritual humility and gratitude. | love poetry! To me it is life. - HOME ACADEMY 2 = @ School is out and the children are relieved and delighted. Or are What are you they? Greg, who had just been i promoted to the Fourth Grade, soins to teach, couldn't find anything to do, Mother? Leora Larsen Gay, a pretty teenager, was collapsed on a chair in the kitchen with her hand in the cookie jar. Where were their usually alert minds? I could hear other children in the neighborhood. They were running and shouting outside. But my little boy had asthma, and my quiet teenager had a heart block that limited her activity. I could not watch them become unhappy. "How would you like a school of your own?" I asked. "First, we will need a janitor to vacuum the carpet and set out chairs." "T will!" said Greg. "We should have music and a thought to start with." Gay came from the kitchen. "We had Seminary first, and I really liked it last year." "Why don't you be the teacher?" I asked. "T will teach math," Greg offered. I smiled, for this was his difficult subject. "Could I be the school cook, mother, and fix anything I want?" Gay asked. "And don't forget recess!" Greg shouted. 297 APRIL 1966 ''We can take turns being the teacher," Gay said. ""What are you going to teach, Mother?" That was how it happened, one of our happiest summers. We called it Sunrise School, and it started soon after Father left for work. Besides Gay teaching Seminary, which was complete with prelude piano music, singing, prayer, and Biblical stories, she also gave us simple lessons in French. She invented a card game called "French Fish," and we could use only French words. Greg worked each afternoon preparing "complicated" math problems for the next morning, and a close friend of his came over once a week to be the spelling teacher. Her name was Pat, and she was most interesting. She searched her geography book for words like Isthmus of Panama, tributary, irrigate, and others. It was a challenge. J made mistakes along with the rest. And I was doing my best! I was in charge of the recess bell and extra-curricular recreation. We went by train to visit my sister in California and held one unforgettable sunrise class with their family. When we returned home we wrote about our trip. This year Gay will be going to summer school and college. Greg and I will miss her, but we plan to continue our lessons and she will share her experiences with us. Teachers and friends agree my children are "gifted." I am not sure about that, but I do wonder about other mothers. What are you teaching? MORNING GLORY MORNING Linda J. Houston The morning-glory morning Of celestial blue Came joyfully with Butterflies and warmth. Birds praised her; Roses opened their arms. She caressed two children at play, Filling their sand pails with gold dust Almost as bright as their innocent eyes. The slender cornstalks Straightened their shoulders, The brook sighed blissfully; And the hearts of those who felt Her splendor Were airy and light that day. 296 No Violins Lael J. Littke ® Mother was lying pale and quiet on the high hospital bed when Dad and I entered the room. It frightened me to see her that way, so to hide my emotions I loped to her side greeting her with the raucous "Hiya" I use for my thirteen-year-old girl friends. She smiled at me and asked how I was and how the other children were. Fine, I assured her, except for Tootie's chicken pox, which Mrs. Donegan next door claimed looked more like smallpox to her, and Tom's mashed finger which was the only thing that got hurt when the tractor ran away with him. Fine, I told her again, except that things just didn't go right and the house was empty without her, and I was a miserable substitute for her, and we missed her desperately, and, as a matter of fact, everything was just terrible. I broke down and cried on her crisp white sheet. She smoothed my hair and told me to sit down in the chair nearby. My father approached the bed then, and through my sniffles and sobs I watched with interest. In the stories I had read, a husband visiting his wife in the hospital, always rushed to her bedside and buried his face in her neck, all the while murmuring things like, '""My darling, I can't stand to see you this way." My father was big and never said much, but in the stories it was always the strong, silent ones who were the most romantic. At home Dad was undemonstrative, but this was a different situation, wasn't it? 299 APRIL 1966 Slowly Dad approached the bed. He stood there a moment, fiddling with the glass tube in the water container on the small table. Then he looked straight at mother. He cleared his throat. "The jersey had her calf last night," he said. He shifted his weight. "Got nearly 300 eggs from the old hens." I could scarcely believe my ears. This is marriage? I thought. For this someday I will get married so that my husband can come to my hospital bedside and tell me some cow has had a calf? A wave of pity washed over me, pity for my mother tied all these years to a man whose main interests were in how many eggs the hens had laid. I stood up and opened my mouth to tell my mother something— anything—which would make her understand that Dad missed her, too. Before I could blurt out anything, my glance snagged on Dad's face. There were tears in his eyes. He was looking down at Mother. A peek at my mother's face told me she understood perfectly what he was trying to convey to her. She smiled up at him and he touched her cheek with his rough, horny, farmer's hand. I didn't see deep into their souls with a sudden flash of perception as the people did in the magazine stories, but I saw enough to make me begin to understand a little about a different kind of love. There were no violins sobbing out romantic melodies, but somewhere, beyond my hearing, there were angels singing of a plain and humble love which was deep enough, big enough, strong enough, to last throughout eternity. THANK YOU, VISITING TEACHERS Carolle Denton Time was long and seeming dark.... A knock came to my door, Two sisters brought a light within | had not seen before. Warmth of sun on shadowed clay Softened and formed anew The latent powers of hope and love, And let the daylight through. The Lord who saw this hardened clay Knew well the urgent cry To bring my life out of the shade, And now, how bright the sky! 300 Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter Four Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes the need for spirituality 'and religious training for the » childrens Rex: agrees to @ trial period of one year for the family to participate in Church activities, and Jennie feels that they are making progress.; | @ On the next Wednesday Jennie ' fasted. Not for the Primary class | alone, but for the whole project. ' Not having fasted since she was a 'child, there were times during the day when she was sure she would faint. She made a cake, before lunch, covered it lavishly ' with chocolate frosting and nuts. + She refrained from absently pol- ' ishing off the frosting spoon. She » took the cake to Primary. _ The boys, tripping and gouging | each other, fell silent when they saw the cake pan. When marching out time came, they followed | her with the alacrity of puppies. Jennie put the cake in the place of honor on the small table. "When do we get it?" "Cut it now!" They swarmed out of their places and _ surrounded the table, their greedy fingers reaching out for a surreptitious swipe. Jennie said softly, "This cake, like the blessings of the Lord, is for the good ones." "You mean we gotta wait till after the lesson!" Famished herself, Jennie could well appreciate the howl of protest. She ignored it and put out her flannel'board and figures. She started with the roll call. "Answer only to your name," she said firmly. She gave the lesson with all the vigor she could summon in her present weakness. Eyeing the cake and the boys, she knew to the last pang, the longing of each young stomach. The long silence was awesome. When she dropped Moses from the flannel board, young Billy leaped to pick the cardboard figure from the floor. "Thank you," she said. "You're welcome," he _ said gravely. Noone laughed. Not even when he brought the kitten 301 APRIL 1966 out from its hiding place in his shirt. No one crowded around him. Billy put the kitten back. Jennie brought the class to an end promptly, after which she cut the cake and passed around the rich, crumbly slices. She did not take one herself, wanting a more fitting end to her fasting. But she had won, even though after the cake was demolished, they began their jostling and boxing. Something was broken. Probably the feeling they had had that no one nor anything could subdue them. Soon after dismissal, red-haired Billy came slowly back into the room, cradling the kitten. "Sister Starr...." "Yes, Billy?' She gathered up her visual aids. He dropped the kitten on the table. "For you... On account of you're a real good teacher." Jennie looked down on the mewing white fluff. She was deeply touched. "Thank you, Billy. I will take good care of him." Even later, when she learned that his mother had commanded him to dispose of the kitten, she treasured the offering. Rex came home early to help and was astonished by her radiance. "But how?" She told him about the cake. Rex, probing the reason for a recalcitrant vacuum, put down the screwdriver and shouted with laughter. '"Somehow," he said, "I don't think it's quite according to Hoyle." He looked at her with respect. ""What made you think of it?" She said comfortably, "I remembered what my father said 302 about how you can't pour from an unfilled pitcher. I poured." "What was the lesson about?" "The stranger within our gates... You know... Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares...."" She said reluctantly, "I sort of threw that in as a bonus, on account of they are being beastly to a new boy." Rex plugged the vacuum in and it responded with a reassuring hum. He wound up the cord. "Speaking of strangers... Guess whom I saw on Main Street today?" "Yul Brynner?" "No... Jody Anderson. I guess people call him Joe now... But it's hard to get out of the habit." Jennie said absently. "Still on the piano?" Rex, shrugged. "I guess so. He said he was doing a bit of composing." "How did he look?" j "The same as always... Only more lost. He's been living back east... Teaching." Jennie had a quick vision of the tall, homely, stooped figure. "Even in high school he was... Well different.." 'He was a kook then and he's a kook now. This is his first trip back home in five years." "Married?" Rex said _pityingly, would marry him?" Jennie was silent. "Why do they come back?" Rex demanded. "I'll bet there is no other town in the country where so many return. What is it they come for?" Jennie had no words to tell him. She felt it might be the "Who thing that urged her to go down to the temple grounds in the morning. It was a leaning down through years to a beginning. It was a search for the roots and the reasons. She had meant to go very early, but there were so many telephone calls. Lorna called and was impatient. "What cave are you living in, darling? And how do you like the hermit's life?" Jennie laughed and took the curlers out of her hair. She had had to do her own hair for the past two weeks. Just no time to spare for a hairdresser. "Guess who is in town?" "Jody Anderson." "My dear, have you seen him? You should! Positively scarecrow.. But really!" Lorna bethought herself of the reason for her call. "It's the luncheon for Mrs. Martin Elliott. You'll come of course?" "When is it?" "Next Wednesday." "Sorry. ''m up to my ears in Church work."' "Oh," Lorna hesitated. "Are you sure? I mean... They can always get teachers."' Jennie thought of Sister Phillips. "No they can't. I'm the teacher." "Well... Allright... But come up for air once in a while. We miss you." Jennie dressed quickly before the telephone could ring again. She wore her fur hat and the tweed great coat and the furlined gloves. She hurried the car down the hill and finally turned the heater on. "Ah." She relaxed in the snowy morning. Johnny and Lora were being left with a WHEAT FOR THE WISE new sitter, a mature and intelligent woman. There was nothing between herself and the free hours ahead. Even though the day was brisk, there were many visitors to the temple grounds. Jennie joined them, absently listening to the young guide, but inside herself the questions surged. What did she believe? How much did she believe? She listened to the guide tell the story of the seagulls' flight over the valley and the destruction of the cricket plague. What had they thought, sweating through their fields, fighting the winged devourers? Had they had the sure knowledge that help would come from somewhere? She had launched herself on this year's quest, blindly believing that if she did her part, all else would fall into place. So had the pioneers launched themselves into the valley, fallen from a cliff, grasping to the shrub of their faith, they had held on. Let me be like them, she prayed. Let me just hold on. SHE went into the Tabernacle to listen to the organ recital. "Jesu, Joy of Our Desiring," she listened to the great notes soaring against the domed ceiling. She saw Jesus in the wheat fields, rubbing the grains in his fingers. Was she, Jennie Starr, wheat or tares? Who knew within himself which he was in the last analysis? If a man did not know himself... How could he know his neighbor? She looked stealthily at her own neighbor, sitting so absorbed in the music! It was a man. His eyes were closed. He seemed, by his expression, to be drawing the music in through his pores. 303 APRIL 1966 Jody Anderson. As if she had said his name aloud, the man opened his eyes and looked at her. It was a strange look. It recognized but did not reach. It was glad to see her, but it asked nothing from her. Jennie felt a tumult of pain. What had the man suffered to force him to such self-abnegation? What had they done to him, to make him unwilling or unable to be glad at sight of an old schoolmate? "Jody Anderson! Remember me? I was-Jennie Bryson." Her whisper was too loud. People on the benches before them, turned warningly. "{ remember you very well," said Jody. "It hasn't been that long. And you _haven't changed." She moved closer to him and held out her hand. He shook it guardedly. When the recital was over, they fell into step together. They walked down the paths to the monuments of the Prophet Joseph and his brother. "Rex said he saw you yesterday." Jody nodded. "He is very happy. It is easy to see that. You have four children." "Would you like to see them?" Jennie asked impulsively. "Of course." She hesitated... "But your family has prior claim... How long will you be here?" "Y'm going back tomorrow." "Would you be free tonight?" His face made her think of winter. It was a still face... As if it had long ago ceased nonsense of spring and laughter, summer and love. But he's only Rex's age, 304 Jennie thought. She found herself urging him. 'Please come. We have a new Steinway... And-it— has never really known music.;.. Come and make it glad with your playing." He said angrily, "I discovered I was no pianist. A long time ago." "But you are.... I remem-. Ber...." "But I was not enough of what I was..." he explained. "I was not enough of greatness." She was silent before his outburst. She felt his own pain. Once she had dreamed of greatness.... Wanted it... Feeling something inside her pressing the wish. But she had not found a talent in her worthy of the struggle. She said, "If there's anyone from school you'd like to see, perhaps I could get them to come." "There's no one," he said definitely. "No one at all." Jennie closed her eyes against his voice and the barren vision of his homecoming. "Please come." "All right," he said, wearily, "T'll come." ir was one of those heavenly evenings when the children were quiet and remarkably well-behaved, when Rex was at his most charming, when the dinner could have been served by a French chef. When the children were excused, the three of them sat before the fire in the living room. Jody gave them small grudging pictures of his life. "They stopped satisfying me," he said, "the masters. I could only have peace by trying to bring out of myself, what they had brought out of themselves." The great names slipped reverently from his lips, Beethoven, Brahms, Sibelius. "Did you ever stop to think what it must have been like to have a 'Misa Solemnis' roaring inside you?" Jennie marveled. She felt herself stretched in her mind by his comments on their lives and despairs. "Why did you stop teaching?" Rex wanted to know. "How did you live?" "Tt became more and more of my life... The music inside me. I never knew when it would come tome... The phrase... The melody... The design, and the impulse. To try to teach with an oratorio blazing inside one... Is to my mind the ultimate of tortures. I did not know what I had just said... I would look up and my class would be convulsed with laughter. I never knew whether I had said something out of turn, or was beating the measures...." "Did you ever publish anything?" Rex asked. Jennie stole a quick look at her husband. Rex was struggling to understand a life so barren of results, so motivated from within, rather than by the pressures from without oneself. Jody Anderson shrugged. "I've published... But not to loud successes. In fact, I should say the musical world has been remarkably calm about my efforts." Rex and Jennie exchanged glances. He was one of the touched, was Joseph Anderson. Jennie shivered, seeing him, in her mind's eye, going down through the years into a driedup shell of never-to-be-realized dreams. He played for them before he left. The music filled the house. They did not understand the music, though they tried. It was a new kind of music, avaunt garde, way out, different, but it haunted Jennie long after the notes had fallen into silence. When he stood at the door to go, he smiled at them. It was a brief smile. '""This was the reason I came," he said, and added, "I was hungry and ye fed me.... I was naked and ye clothed me "For a hungry man," said Jennie, "you certainly didn't eat very much." He paused a moment and then in a burst of words, "Tonight... In Philadelphia, they are having the opening of our play. It's a light play.... 'Dust on the Moon.' But I wrote the music and the words, and I like them very much." He nodded curtly and went away. They watched him walk down the street. Snow had begun to fall, and it circled his tall, ungainly figure. Jennie and Rex, uncertain and depressed, sat by the dying embers and discussed him. "He should throw it out," said Rex harshly, "cut it off from himself. Sell insurance... Or teach... Anything." Jennie thought of Jody Anderson, sitting in his class, tormented by the wild measures of his songs. "Why?" she demanded. 'Does 305 APRIL 1966 everyone have to have split-level houses and a color television?" "No," said Rex. 'But the world is too full of people who will not conform." JENNIE kicked off her. Shoes and stretched out her toes to the fire. "But there is a difference... We would have been a _ poorer world without Handel, or Van Gogh or Emily Dickinson." "But for every Van Gogh," Rex observed, "there is an army of would-be's." "For every President of the United States,' said Jennie slowly, "there is an army of would-be's."' She sat up. "Does a man choose to be a maker of music, or is he a maker of music?" Rex rose and pulled her to her feet. "For such a small woman, you ask awfully big questions." But Rex was the one who came running upstairs in the morning, bearing the newspaper that told about 'Native Son,' Joseph Anderson's, smash hit play in Philadelphia. Lorna called. "Honestly, if you aren't shot with luck! I just met Rex and he told me about last night." She sighed. "Think of sitting there with one of the top celebrities. Just sitting there and having him play his own compositions... What was it like?" Jennie did not say, "It was heartbreaking." She did not say, "T learned the splendor of the undefeated." She said, "He is a gentle person and very kind." Joseph Anderson sent them a note. "... It is amusing' and interesting to be suddenly accepted. I shall remember always, our meeting, and the evening at your house. It is to the thought of 306 you and Rex and others like you that I cling, for I rather fear that I am one of those who will never be able to separate himself from the place of his beginning." Sabra had brought the mail to her and now waited, watching her mother's face. '""Was it a good letter? Your face is undecided." Jennie read the note to her. Sabra leaned on her elbows and looked out the window to the orchard, now a garden of snow. "He was nice," she said. "I stayed awake and listened to him play." She practiced standing on her toes. "Did you know that I am going to be like him when I grow up?" Jennie looked up quickly. "Ah, come now... How can you say a thing like that?" Sabra nodded. "I dreamed about it. I was old, about your age, Mother. I had a pocketful of songs. The birds came and took all the songs out of my pocket. And the people came and took the songs out of my hands... But it was always the songs they wanted... But they never wanted me at all." Jennie went to her daughter and hugged her fiercely. "No... It was only a dream. It was just one of those things... Forget it." Sabra looked up in surprise. "But you don't understand, Mother! It was so beautiful... The way the notes came together inside me.... It was such a beautiful thing." Jennie held Sabra's head against her breast. The protest rose like a cry within her... No... No... Don't let it happen to her. Don't let her be different and strange and rejected... No. (To be continued) A Proper Perspective Through The Relief Society Magazine Arlene Bascom Tt was one of those bleak, despairing kind of days. Everything had gone wrong. I was disappointed in myself and in my own feeling of inadequacy. T knelt and prayed for strength to meet the burdens of the day. I rose from my knees comforted, and with renewed determination to meet the problems, not as burdens but as challenges. Then the mail arrived, and with it The Relief Society Magazine. I knew it had come at a perfect time. I had found inspiration in its pages many times before. I began to read eagerly, and the inspiration and guidance I needed were there in abundance. One sentence from a soul-revealing story leaped out at me: "Everyone has problems, at any 2&e, but there are compensations and blessings, if you just take time to think of them." Of course! There are compensations and blessings, I echoed joyously, and I will take the time to remember them. I said a silent prayer of gratefulness for the timely arrival of this help in regaining a proper perspective. My world was right again. I was sure I could meet the challenges of each new day more confidently. After all, didn't I have the Lord on my side, and the blessings of the Relief Society Magazine in my home? T am convinced that there is no other organization in the world that can compare with the Relief Society, and no other magazine in the world as valuable as The Relief Society Magazine. Full Circle Betty G. Spencer She slept—held gently in the protective circle of my arm. As I gazed lovingly upon the beauty of spirit and countenance of my year-old daughter, I wished that it might always be thus—my arms a shield against the uncertainties of life. But this cannot be. Soon, my arms must yield her to the challenge of life. There is respite, however; these next few precious years are mine—to teach, to guide, to train. May I use them well. Let me teach wisely, that she may be prepared to meet the future bravely, and alone—my arms reluctantly withdrawn. But, if I have taught the lessons wisely and she has learned them well, she will yet be shielded—with truth, and strength, and right. The circle of my arms will be replaced with a stronger, surer one, a circle of protective principles. 307 —_ Pa, FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Long Beach Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Concert December 18, 1965 Marian Bennett, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: "On December 18, 1965, the Long Beach Stake Relief Society proudly presented in concert the Singing Mothers. The chorus, under the direction of Faye Kerner, with Theodora Johnson at the piano, practiced many weeks and hours for this concert. Among the numbers presented were: 'Morning,' 'O Winds, Blow Ye Softly,' 'Every Flower, 'Praise Ye the Father,' 'Hear My Prayer,' 'Panis Angelicus (O Bread of Life),' 'O Holy Night,' 'My Heart Is a Silent Violin,' and 'Let Not Your Song End.' "Many who attended the concert remarked how professionally the chorus sang. We feel it was a very outstanding event. This was a fund-raising event, and all stake board members supported it wholeheartedly." Boston Stake Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Standing at the right in the back row: Helen B. Low, President, Boston Stake Relief Society; at Sister Low's right: Julienne A. Thomson, Second Counselor. At the right in the second row: stake chorister Nora B. Cox; fourth from the right on the second row: Charlene Strong, board member; eighth from the right: Esther Poulsen, board member. Vicky Taylor, chorister, Billerica Ward, is seen conducting the chorus; the acting organist is Marta Tillis. Sister Low reports: "An excellent quality of tone and harmony gained by perseverance, as well as a number of sweet spirits, combine to make the Singing Mothers chorus a worthwhile activity. So believe the women of Boston Stake. This theory was tested when we participated with several other stakes singing at the Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair. Many, many hours of hard work and self-sacrifice on the part of the sisters and their families produced a chorus we hardly believed possible. To pay for the trip from Boston to New York, this chorus presented a very successful concert for friends and families of the participants. Our sisters grew to be very close, and their willingness to participate, we hope, will last for many years to come. "Now we take part in almost every stake conference. We are continuing our practices on a ward and stake level, hoping to make each successive performance outshine the last." The Boston Stake Singing Mothers presented music for stake conference January 30, 1966. The picture was taken previously. 308 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. APRIL 1966 Bonneville Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Douglas Ward Relief Society Holds Bazaar '"'Treasures for Everyone" November 19, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Blanche Gadd, Secretary-Treasurer; Arlean Olson, President; Mildred Kinnersley, Work Counselor; Rosetta Palmer, Education Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Jerri Seiler, commentator for the fashion show; Dawn Reeve, committee chairman; committee members: Kathy Young; Gwen Woolsey; Lucile Gates; Beth Sorenson, work meeting leader. Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A most successful bazaar was held, featuring 'Relief Society Treasures' made by the sisters during the year. Bazaar items were displayed in beautifully decorated antique trunks. Bakery goods from 'Treasured Recipes' were sold. A 'Treasure Cove' interested the children. To stimulate interest in the bazaar, at the beginning of the year, each sister in Douglas Ward, was asked to donate an apron. After the work meeting a month before the bazaar, an 'Apron Fashion Show' was the feature of the day. It was exciting to see the 110 aprons donated by the sisters modeled. Recognition was given to the sisters donating the prettiest, the most practical, and the most unusual aprons. After seeing the aprons modeled, everyone was anxious to go to the bazaar early in order to buy her favorite apron. We feel that the fashion show created such an interest in the bazaar, in addition to the monetary help, that we intend to repeat it another year. We feel that the fashion show was a contributing factor to the increase in membership and attendance in Douglas Ward." North Central States Mission Relief Society Board Conducts Fifth Annual Relief Society Convention Fargo, North Dakota, August 1, 1965 Seated, front row, left to right: Doris Youngs, First Counselor; Mary B. Ostvig, President; Dola Hofeling. Standing, left to right: Margaret Ann Abbott, Magazine representative; Jean Marie Didra, Secretary-Treasurer; Olfa Hansen, visiting teacher message leader. Inset: Doris A. Allphin, Supervisor, North Central States Mission Relief Society. Sister Ostvig reports: '""The theme of the convention was 'Perfecting of the Saints Through Application of Gospel Principles.' Special participating guests included: Elder Bernard P. Brockbank, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, and Sister Brockbank; Relief Society board members from eight districts of the North Central States Mission; and executive officers and class leaders, representing forty-five Relief Society organizations from Minnesota, South Dakota, North Dakota, part of Wisconsin; and Manitoba, Ontario, and the Lakehead area of Canada. "Combined and departmental meetings were held, with special original skits. Visual aids were featured, and district displays, showing the accomplishments of the work meeting departments. These were unique, and included pictures of the General Presidency of Relief Society standing under the clock which was donated for the Relief Society Building by the North Central States Mission Relief Society. This clock was installed over the elevator on the main floor of the building. "The combined Singing Mothers chorus of the mission sang at two sessions of the convention. Special recognition was given to the winners in the mission: sponsored short story and poem contests." 310 APRIL 1966 Sharon Stake (Utah) Magazine Representatives Who Achieved a 100 Per Subscription Record for Every Ward in the Stake January 24, 1966 Seated, front row, left to right, Magazine representatives of Sharon S Loreen H. Bliss, Orem Thirteenth Ward; Alieda Hiener, Orem Twelfth Sylvia Sabin, Orem Eleventh Ward; Meredith Searle, Orem Nineteenth W Dora Hartley, Provo Twentieth Ward; Lysle Williams, Orem Sixteenth W Naomi S. Biggs, Orem Twenty-third Ward. Back row, standing, left to right, fourth from the left: Arvilla J. Brads stake Magazine representative; fifth from the left, Eris M. Black, Presi Sharon Stake Relief Society. Sister Black reports: "The picture was taken at our stake Relief 5 leadership meeting, in recognition of the fact that each of our ward Maga representatives achieved 100 per cent, or over, of her Magazine s i quota for the year 1965. It has been many years since this goal has reached in our stake. Not only does this achievement reflect the devoted, of increased presidential support of the Magazine representatives in ward. Support has also been extended to the representatives through our leadership meetings by calling attention to, and sometimes reading, a S article from the Magazine in the opening exercises, and by charting the pr of each ward representative in the presidencies department each month duri the past year." Florida Stake Visiting Teacher Convention November 14, 1965 Ruth F. Boone, President, Florida Stake Relief Society, reports: " visiting teacher convention was held in connection with Relief Society | ship meeting. Ninety-five women were honored and presented with certifi for having accomplished 100 per cent visiting teaching for a year (Sept 1964 to September 1965). A bound volume of The Relief Society Ma was presented to Palatka Ward for 100 per cent visiting teaching d Vv. Jenkins was the principal speaker. A lovely reception was held in cultural hall. One teacher, Martha Clark, from Waycross Ward, Georgia, a record of fourteen years without missing a month. Our visiti range in age from nineteen to ninety-three. Sister Annie Anell, Third Ward, was ninety-three on Valentine's Day. She drives her own to do her visiting teaching." Anaheim Stake (California) Special Relief Society Meeting November 21, 1965 Front row, seated, left to right: Dr. Harvey Fletcher; Lorena C. Fletcher; Max V. Eliason, President, Anaheim Stake; Glenna C. Woolf, President, A heim Stake Relief Society; Kathern H. Marks, First Counselor; Colleen D. Baxter, Second Counselor. Second row, seated, second from the right (in black dress), choris Marybeth Done; at right: organist Melba Longhurst. Sister Woolf reports: "In an effort to interest more women in Reli Society, a special meeting was held on Sunday, November 21, 1965. All sisters and their husbands in Anaheim Stake. Were invited. We were ble to have Sister Lorena C. Fletcher (American Mother of the Year), and husband Dr. Harvey Fletcher, as guest speakers, along with our Stake President Max V. Eliason. Each woman was honored as American mother of home. A tableau, depicting various phases of Relief Society, was presen on film and by characterization. The stake Singing Mothers presented beautiful numbers Five hundred were in attendance." 312 ] | q | | | APRIL 1966 Giggs de ee Ad iat, West Sharon Stake (Utah), Provo Seventeenth Ward Relief Society ''Carousel'"' November 12, 1965 Montez B. Harwood, President, West Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Provo Seventeenth Ward Relief Society held a most successful bazaar on November 12, 1965. The theme for the evening was 'Relief Society Carousel,' and the hall was gay with candy canes and carousels. There were seven different areas: Christmas shop, handicrafts, sewing, baked goods, toys, a fish pond, and the dinner. Each area around the hall was decorated individually as a part of the central theme. The cost of the bazaar, including the ham dinner, was $392. There were 350 persons served during the evening, and the net profit of the bazaar was $1,024.75. The bazaar was presented under the direction of President Arleen T. Johnson, her Counselors Carole Olsen and Barbara Wardle, and work meeting leader Donna Ericson. The dinner committee consisted of Krilla Olsen, Cleone Judkins, Leora Giles, and Bonnie Smith. Committee chairmen were: Bernice Kirkwood, Donna Ericson, Marilyn Dunn, Arleen Johnson, Barbara Wardle, Ruth Adams, Krilla Olsen, and Doris Jensen. "The picture shows a circular arrangement of several varieties of cookies, with some of the beautifully decorated cakes in the background at the left." 314 Lesson Department WORK MEETING Development Through Wy Homemaking Education Dr. Jenniev J. Poulson Chairman, Housing and Home Management Department Brigham Young University WISE BUYMANSHIP Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1966 Objective: To show that better How important to the well-being of the family is the woman's role in wise buying? Discuss. A goal of accumulating money just for itself brings little satisfaction. The value of money is realized in the happiness and satisfaction obtained through the wise spending of it. This is the happiness realized through spending money wisely for such things as wholesome, nutritious food, for clothes that provide warmth, protection, and beauty for the body, for shelter and surroundings for the family that aid in happy relationships and contribute to the development of family members, for an education for the children, and for money spent in giving service to our Father in heaven., Southern Hemisphere: December 1966 buymanship is a skill to be developed. WISE BUYING A concern of most families is to have enough money to take care of their needs. Families look forward to earning more money or increasing their incomes, but many families would benefit a great deal from increased skill in spending the money they have. Many hours may be spent in learning how to earn money, but how many hours are spent in learning to spend money wisely? Better buying practices can stretch each family's limited number of dollars, and can help it to get its money's worth whether buying necessities, comforts, or luxuries. A homemaker who can stretch $1 to secure $1.15 worth of merchandise, or 85 cents to secure $1 worth, is 315 APRIL 1966 adding to the real income of the family. This explains why it is possible that of two families with identical incomes, one family may have much more to show for the expenditure of its money. One of the secrets is wise buying. IS PRICE ALWAYS A GUIDE TO QUALITY? A wise buyer hunts for the greatest quantity and best quality for the price she pays. Many buyers are guided by the philosophy that "you pay for what you get," and use price and brand as a guide to quality. Interesting and _ thought-provoking surveys have been made by important manufacturers to ascertain the relative appeal to shoppers of goods marked with well-known brand names, and goods made by other companies. The results of one such survey indicated that, although the brand name goods were considerably higher in price, the rate of selling was almost four times as great as that of the unbranded goods. Many trade journals are full of reports of increased sales after prices have been raised. In one case, sales of an item on which a higher price was marked, increased thirty per cent. There is no dependable relationship between quality and price. The homemaker who buys, thinking she gets higher quality for a higher price, may be spending more money than is needed. Prices asked for identical branded products vary. WHAT! S THE VALUE OF COMPARATIVE SHOPPING? A wise buyer does comparative shopping. She may do this by 316 reading advertisements and comparing the prices for identical items; or she may do comparative shopping by comparing prices and quality in different catalogs. She shops around at more than one store, comparing quality and price. Many homemakers have become accustomed to buying at one store, and do not compare prices before buying. One study led to the conclusion that sixty per cent of the buyers choose their stores on the basis of convenience, not price. One must shop in different stores in an area, because no one store is consistently the lowest in price. This rule applies to the different kinds of things bought, and to the different kinds of stores, including discount houses. CASE STUDY Mrs. A is a "bargain shopper," cannot resist a sale, and buys sale merchandise whether products are used by family or not. She never reads the labels on packages to determine weight and content, buys on impulse, buys because she thinks she is making a big saving for the family budget, yet never seems to have on hand just what is needed. Mrs. B never reads sale advertisements, goes only to one market and buys as the need arises regardless of the cost, and usually has a hard time in stretching her money to meet her family's needs. Mrs. C is aware of what is needed and what is used by her family, checks advertised specials, and compares prices of products used by her family. She plans menus ahead, so makes fewer shopping trips, anticipates needs of family and takes advantage of special savings, checks labels of competitive products, so is able to recognize a saving, knows what she is buying and, with careful planning and wise buying. Her budget stretches. Mrs. D reads advertisements, checks bargains, and goes to each store to buy them, and spends four hours and a half-tank of gasoline in "hunting" sale merchandise. Who is the wisest? Discuss and evaluate each of the four procedures. SUMMARY It is indeed easy to spend money, but it takes time and effort to spend it wisely, Few families have so much money that they can afford not to spend it wisely. By spending thought and time in buying, they may add to the goods and services LESSON DEPARTMENT they are able to have. We are told to "waste not; want not." Spending more money than is necessary is a form of waste. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Discuss with the sisters the following: When buying, try different brands, or unbranded products that cost less, to see if they aren't as satisfactory for the purpose for which they are to be used as the articles that cost more. Do comparative buying to see how much can be saved. Compare prices of identical branded products in different stores. ALPINE LILIES Dorothy J. Roberts As wind wakes from the autumn doorstep, Wheeling toward evening in a pirouette And southward on a threnody of wings, Leaving with a cry, but to return to a song; AS moon, spring's rover, must midnight, By midnight, watch the winter field Till snow thins to cluny lace On the clods of April's hunger, And as hour on hour, must light move Up from the cycle of slumber Toward the dark horizon of the dawn, And night give way to the unfettering sun, In mimic, oh, my striving year, Let lilies leap from the alpine weather As feet of frost cross glacier And soles walk the summer of sod. 317 APRIL 1966 MY YELLOW BIRD Alda L. Brown Blithe canary! My yellow bird of spring! Golden is the merry note From lilted throat you sing! We share a rendezvous with May— One trysted hour with dawn.... From lilac-scented bough you flay A roundelay of song! | will miss you, yellow bird, When gilded petals close. No longer will you sip From dew-filled cup. Unheard Will be your rush of wing.... So silent will my morning sing When summer goes.... < CEDAR CREST ~ + BOYS RANCH ~ GATEWAY T0 A BOYS WORLD Cedar Crest Boys Ranch provides a professional staff dedicated to the physical. Spiritual and social development of boys 8 thru 16 located 6 miles from Manti Utah at the edge of beautiful and rugged Manti La Sai National Forest and adjoining Palisade State t/ PO. Box 8093 Salt Lake City Utah 84108 Oating Park For further information write Cedar Crest Boys Ranch 318 Mother Do Your Children Know What To Do With Love? Give Your Children the LDS answer by providing them with their copy of "What Shall We Do With Love" by Ernest Eberhard Jr. Written for teenagers, by a Church youth educator, with thirty years of experience, it covers the whole problem from a positive, youthoriented point of view. (5th printing) $3.25 at all LDS bookstores or order from Bookcraft, 4 1186 South Main, Salt Lake City, Utah SPRINGTIME IN FLORIDA April TEMPLE TOUR April 18, 1966 HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way April 27, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways Canadian and New England States Tour September —_ Alaska Pageant Tours Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 382-8981 — 467-5763 — 485-2444 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.... 55 Zone 6...........90 Mom.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 mone 4.......... 65 Zones..........1.20 Zone 5 a. DESERET FREWS PRESS — Cardston and Idaho Falls June 17, 1966 Time for those who wish to go to temples * * ba * aE Hawaiian Lei Day Tour April 23 — May 8 Northwest Tour June 25 — July 2 Hill Cumorah Tours July 1966 Summer Paradise Hawaiian Tour July 23 Black Hills Passion Play Tour August 21 New England—Canadian Fall Tour September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 Two great Murdock Tours for YOU 1. Highlights of Europe Tour Departs June 9th This personally escorted and allexpense-paid tour of Europe is designed to please the most fastidious traveler and to give him the best of Europe in 21 days. You'll miss none of the really important places and sights and always enjoy the finest accommodations... All at unusually low cost. Name...............-....- MUR DOCK Address... TRAVEL fae 2. Vikingland Tour Departs July 12th Fly SAS DC-8 Jet Express to Scandinavia for 22 days of sheer enchantment. See the Fjords of Norway, "The Folklore District of Sweden," the Fairytale land of Denmark, and many wonderful sights. Highest class accommodations all the way. Amazingly low cost. SCHSSHSSHSHSHSSSHOSHSHSHSHSSSHSHSHSHOHSHSHSSSESSSSSEHHOSSHSEOED MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main/ Salt Lake City, Utah. Dept. A Please send information on: [_] Highlights of Europe Tour [_] Vikinglands Tour R. S. Apr. '66 SPOHSSHSHSHNSSHSHSHHSSHSSHESHSSHSOESHSOESSHSESHSESHHESHOSEHEEHEEEE SHES HCCHCOHSHOKCHHLCSESLOS CS 319 10 Mrs. Anna Glackmyre Agee Mora, Minnesota 100 Mrs. Martha Rogers Platt Granger, Utah 99 Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffiths Clarkston, Utah 98 Mrs. Christine Peterson Nielson Cardston Alberta, Canada Mrs. Olena Maria Petersen Larson Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Albertha Fransiska 'Nielson Hatch Riverton, Wyoming Mrs. Alice Collins Frost Ogden, Utah 96 Mrs. Rachel Middleton Jensen Ogden, Utah g5 Mrs. Mary Ann Limb Young Manti, Utah Mrs. Sarah Jones Harman Salt. Lake City, Utah 93: Lisania Knight Brimhall Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Bernice Lindquist Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Camilla Winget Magleby Monroe, Utah Mrs. Julia Ann Rebecca Smith Anell Jacksonville, Florida Mrs. Lelia Marquess Ferrell Hopkinsville, Kentucky 9 Mrs. Lucy Maude Bliss Walsh Bakersfield, California —_— Mrs. Sarah Humphreys Passey Thayne, Wyoming Mrs. Daisy Deen Larson Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Sena Simmons Curtis Moroni, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Tuck Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Johanna Elzinga Hand Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amy Louise Fletcher Bailey Fort Collins, Colorado Mrs. Mary Luella Higbee Schnebly Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Celestia Ashcroft Rogers Logan, Utah Mrs. Emma Bohman Webb Provo, Utah Mrs. Emma Margaret Stocking Holt Murray, Utah Mrs. Sarah Jacobena Jensen Fenton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Maude Marie Boshard Jefferies — North Hollywood, California Mrs. Iida May Taylor Flinders Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lottie Sherwood Baker St. Johns, Arizona Mrs. Margaret Robson Brown Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lina Selma Stock Nestler Salt Lake City, Utah eseret Book | COMPANY r 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL tH SALT LAKE CITY { 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN KY " 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA As Translated Correctly, by Mark E. Petersen $2.50 Here is a new and exciting discussion of Bible trans- | lations both ancient and modern by a popular contemporary Church writer, a member of the Quorum of the Twelve. Taking as his theme the Article of Faith reading: ''We believe the Bible to be the Word of God as far as it is translated correctly,'' Elder Petersen goes on to present a thorough and well documented analysis of the Bible as it has been translated in various ages. Facts surrounding the Prophet Joseph Smith's inspired but incomplete translation are included. Other popular Mark E. Petersen books include; Our Moral Challenge: One Lord, One Faith; Toward a Better Life; and Guide to a Happy Marriage. Who Am!?, by Alvin R. Dyer $4.95 The crucial three questions of all investigators of truth are, Who am |? Where did | come from? And Where am | going? This authoritative and well-documented volume explains the meaning of earth-life existence from the basic concepts revealed by God to man in this dispensation. The | author, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, has done a masterful job in handling his subject. Other books by the same author include: This Age of Confusion, The Challenge, The Fallacy, and The Lord Speaketh. Sees eestsceeseereseanrn sees retesrevoerenesereseeeoreseresetsnestresseeeeseseovneereseneeereeaneresese DESERET BOOK COMPANY, 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check.............. Money order.............. | have an account, please charge............ Amount $. A «items «> Es» For [] As Translated Correctly by Mark E. 'Flliiween C] Who Am I? By Alvin R. Dyer nce (NG (0 | CS ore CN cle SHAE! Gees. EnueZIP ee. Residents of California, when ordering through California store, please add 4% sales tax. R. S. Apr. '66 Residents of Utah, please add 312% sales tax.. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah ender, loving care... A little girl for her doll... And parents for their children. And that care includes looking ahead to children's needs in the future... To unanticipated emergencies, to their missions and to their educations. Your Beneficial Life Agent is a specialist in this kind of ''tender, loving care.'' Consult him soon. For name of nearest agent, write: Beneficial Life. Insurance Company,, BENEFICIAL LIFE 4i A y 4 d Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110. Ssurance Company One of the West's oldest and largest life insurance companies—serving 11 Western States and Ohio. Virgil H. Smith, Pres Salt Lake City, Utah c 'the, Retier Sdclety 'Magazine Volume 53 Number § wy 1~; onl ae fai ': wn 'am; * Y ' re. Ay } ae "ws '; r % gy aif F 4 Wy, me Gh} ae ee q if bs Yi. Ry: 7 f > sa _—¥ > ae as ce e' »: lade. Of Prayer Marilyn McMeen Miller | One grasps more than a century In this grove. _ Behind the deep bark sun has tumbled down measures of gold _ Since adie a spring day ~He knelt here—the Prophet boy "on his knees, far from the desert and confusion: tr came _Like_a spin 'rain quench a fervent ~ Sdme' spot of quiet sun In; world-heart match _ gold In t is grove. Ah If there is peace, it sprea i warm, All- = Mey i. Essence of li » From thi Sy Tall, 'ood hovering a the yt ' grace. Es he Cover: § Coral Morning of Mount Olympus, Utah ' be" Nile Dorothy J. Roberts d Grove, New York _ Frontispiece:; ntispi rt 7 aS = The trees are tall, for the years have sung ages ithographed in in Full Color by Deseret Ne | have been reading our wonderful Magazine for seventeen years, and love every issue. Now | am a ward representative and take great pleasure in ordering and placing the Magazine in as many homes as possible. | so much enjoyed reading the conference address by President Belle S. Spafford, ''The Blessings of Experience'' (November 1965); and ''Teaching the Gospel,'' by President Joseph Fielding Smith (January 1966). These addresses are so uplifting to us all in these troubled times. Margaret L. Dickinson Oroville,. California Every time! Pick up a copy of our choice Magazine and read the beautiful and wholesome contents, | thank God for my heritage. What a blessing to be able to read, to have at my fingertips words of comfort, inspiration, strength, and encouragement. But this is not all. The short stories and poems feed that part of my soul which yearns for expression and understanding. | am thankful for the Magazine. | amin love with it. Phillis L. Grayson. Hunter, Utah | am thankful to have had the pleasure of receiving The Relief Society Magazine, which has been ordered as a gift to me three times by the mother of the missionary who converted and baptized me four and a half years ago. The Magazine has been a great help to me in many ways, in my callings as literature class leader, first counselor, and secretary-treasurer in our branch. The Magazine has helped me to understand and live the gospel better. It has helped me to read and speak English. It thrilled me when | saw a picture from Switzerland on the cover and one inside the Magazine. Margrit Stauffer Kuhn Baldwin Park, California (formerly of Solothurn, Switzerland) 322 | must tell you how much | appr the Magazine, especially now that are 7,000 miles away from home, our only contact with the Church is mail. There are three families of us and since the other two sisters w have invited them to join with me Sunday evenings a month to study Relief Society lessons. It might difficult for Statesiders to unders how we hunger for the gospel, and have been on Saipan only t months. My husband reads The dren's Friend from cover to cover, well as The Relief Society Magazi Reading Dorothy Roberts' poem: "T ple Spires' in the February Ma made me come into the bedroom lock the door so our maid wouldn't me cry. It still remains a thrill to something | have written published. Love Mary Scopes' illustrations. Janet Mariana Is 1 would like to express my appreci for The Relief Society Magazine. | just finished reading the Dece Magazine (with lessons for M from cover to cover. | have been t ing school for the past eight y and so have been unable to a Relief Society meetings, but meetings are being held for the ing sisters on Sunday morning, the Priesthood meetings are held. Eloise M Blackfoot, | had occasion to lend four issues The Relief Society Magazine to s nonmember friends. The man emergency surgery, and | thought wife would like something to while she waited. Both the hus and the wife commented on the derful stories, poems, color pict and how the lesson material had them a new insight concerning Li day Saint beliefs. ' Mrs. Dorothy E Mt. Carroll, Il the Relief Society Magazine Volume 53 May 1966 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 324 Three Women Celestia J. Taylor 329 Literary Contest Announcements 1966 338 Resembling Mother Pearle M. Olsen 341 Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother Leah Green 342 A Letter: To Daughter From Mother Lydia Parker 374. Magazine Honor Roll for 1965 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 332 The Old Stove Lael J. Littke 346 Washday Blues Frances C. Yost 366 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 5 Margery S. Stewart General Features 322 From Near and Far 343 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 344 Editorial: Young Women in Relief Society Louise W. Madsen 387 Notes From 'the Field: Relief Society Activities 400 Birthday Congratulations The Home - inside and Out 351 Freezer Time Means Free Time Joyce B. Bailey 353 Look for the Small Clues Kaye T. Roberts 356 Bulletin June F. Krambule 358 Much of Worth—The Relief Society Magazine Mabel L. Anderson 360 Cousins Genevieve Van Wagenen 363 A Pod Full of Peas Helen Hinckley Jones 364 Spring Dream Salad Dressing Ida A. Isaacson 365 Ismilda England—Expert With Crochet Hook and Quilting Needle 386 Time of Farewell Leora Larsen Lesson Department 394 Work Meeting—Clothing Care Adds to Wear Margaret P. Childs Poetry 321 Place of Prayer Marilyn McMeen Miller Memories, Catherine B. Bowles, 328; My Neighbor, Dorothy J. Roberts, 331; A Garden, Vera R. Holden, 331; Claim for Mercy, Christie Lund Coles, 337; Journal of Marriage, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 339; Susquehanna River Valley, Alice Morrey Bailey, 340; The Matchless Role, Bertha A. Kleinman, 349; Meadow Flowers, Norma A. Wrathall, 350; Afterglow, Zara Sabin, 352; Unto Others, Maude O. Cook, 355; To One Away, Enola Chamberlin, 359; Memories in May, Annie Atkin Tanner, 373; Blossomtime, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 386; From the Sea to the Shell, Bernice Ames, 396; Seasonal, Gayla Ann Larsen, 397; SisterTalk, Rowena Jensen Bills, 397; Sunlit Canyon, Ethel Jacobson, 398. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Three Women @ Fortunate is the child who is reared under the guidance of a good mother; doubly fortunate is one who also comes under the influence of a noble grandmother; but even more blessed is one who has the wise guidance of a second loving, wonderful grandmother. The realization that my life has been thus blessed has filled me with a deep sense of responsibility for a debt that can never be fully paid. I acknowledge this debt in gratitude and humility and with a feeling of joy and pride in the heritage which is responsible for it In retrospect, the measure of the influence of my mother and my two grandmothers upon my life has been infinite. Each one has exerted particular forces in certain individual ways which have worked to my benefit. A brief, but candid, glimpse into the lives of each of the three may reveal something of the meaning and depth of the debt which each of us, as women, owes to those who have nurtured us and en- 324 Celestia J. Taylor Membe General Board Relief Society dowed us with the true virtues 0 womanhood. In some ways, in the memori of my very early childhood, m Grandmother Nash—"Grandma" always to me—stands out even more vividly than does my mother. I can explain this perhaps best by saying that becau: Mother was always there to be with and to come home to, I must have just taken her for granted; though I know now that without her through all my life, I would have been lost. In order to place my Grandmother Nash in a proper perspective, it is necessary that I give some of the essential facts of her life as they were written down by her eldest daughter: In Nashville, Tennessee, in the year 1842, Rhoda Young McNicol was born to Alexander and Mary Ann Vance McNicol, the youngest child of four. She was reared in an environment almost inconceivable to her posterity —amid an ease of living and luxurious surroundings.... There was no memory of the father who died during the infancy of thi child, and the mother and her family of four small girls were taken to the home of the dear Grandfather, Lewis Vance, a wealthy plantation owner, where they remained a number of years.... Then the gospel found them, and the entire family was converted to Mormonism. Lewis Vance sold his beautiful plantation. They said goodbye to the old home and started westward to join the saints. The journey was suspended at Council Bluffs, and the winter brought the terrible scourge of cholera among the travelers, taking a toll of two from this party. Lewis Vance and a daughter succumbed to the disease, and were left by the wayside. In 1852, the survivors resumed the long trek westward. Rhoda, the youngest, was too small to walk the entire distance and was permitted to take turns riding on the back of the family cow... At the rear of the company, which was commanded by Captain John Tidwell, who led his band of faithful followers into the beautiful valley of the Great Salt Lake, in 1852. Later, the family moved to Alpine, Utah County, then known as Mountainville, where they made a permanent residence.... On September 23, 1863, Rhoda was married to Ephraim Nash... And a year later they received their endowments and were sealed in the old Endowment House in Salt Lake City. I can hardly think of Grandma Nash without thinking of her home, which she loved so dearly. It was a brick structure of typical Victorian style, three stories high, and comprising sixteen rooms all furnished richly and completely with every comfort and luxury which was available at that time. How I loved that house of Grandma's. I knew every corner of it more intimately than I knew our own Alpine home. Grandma was an immaculate housekeeper; there was order not only in every room in her house but also on every shelf and in every drawer. It seems to me THREE WOMEN now, as I look back in nostalgic remembrance, that her home was a haven of perfection and peace. This, I know, is partly a romantic projection growing out of my childhood impressions, but, nevertheless, a very real one to me. Something I can never forget was her sitting room just off her bedroom, where she did her handwork. A glimpse into the drawers of her cabinets revealed rows and rows of variegated assortments of thread, embroidery floss, and yarn, all arranged in graduated color schemes from the palest tints to the deepest hues. To me, as a child, they were a fascinating sight. And her needlework was something to see. Her beautiful handmade quilts, rugs, and afghans; her exquisite hand embroidery; her peerless knitting and crocheting; her intricate patterns of featherstitching and piecework; her handloomed carpets and fabrics—all these and more testified of her talent as an artist in these skills. Although Grandma was _ far more than domestic in her tastes and inclinations, in her kitchen she was perfection itself. I can still see her drawing from the oven a batch of fragrant bread or a pan of yeast biscuits, high and incredibly light; or see her rolling out the dough for her pies which, except for those my mother baked from the same recipe and method, have never been equaled in my experience. Her wonderful breads, pies, and cakes often found their way into the homes of her neighbors and friends in need. Hardly a day went by that did not see her taking something to someone. I never saw her at work in her 325 MAY 1966 kitchen when she was not singing; in fact, I can hardly think of her without hearing her singing. Sometimes a note of sadness emanated from her songs, but whatever her mood, she expressed it in some kind of singing. Sometimes she merely hummed, but always I remember her with music in her heart. She knew from memory and dearly loved all the favorite Church hymns, and it was from hearing her sing them that-I learned most of them myself. Her voice had a low, vibrant quality that had a penetrating effect upon my senses. Whenever I hear the words of King Lear in Shakespeare's great tragedy, "Her voice was ever soft, /Gentle, and low—; an excellent thing in woman," I always think of my Grandmother Nash. I think it must have been her gift of song which lent a buoyancy to her spirit to lift it up in spite of sorrows which could easily have destroyed a less indomitable character. Not from her did I hear the story of the loss of five beautiful children—four daughters and one son—within the space of six months from diphtheria. And not from her did I know that the sorrow was hers of having a young, talented, handsome son turn to the enticements of drink and literally destroy himself. These and many other trials seemed to have made her the stronger in the bearing of them. There was never any wavering in her faith. She was possessed of a strong, personal testimony which kept her close to the Church and true to its principles as long as she lived. My association with my Grandmother Johnson was not so in- 326 timate, nor did it extend over so long a period as with my Grandmother Nash, but what time I did spend with her was no less rewarding in many ways. I think that probably no two women were less alike than they were, and yet, each in her own way, was endowed with the highest qualities of intellect and character. I never thought to compare them. I loved them both, and they loved each other. Both lived at varying times in our home, and several times they were there together, and at such times their sincere affection and respect for — each other were evident. According to family records: Susan Adeline Holman was the fifth child of James Sawyer and Naomi Roxannia LeBaron Holman. She was born on the 7th of October, 1841, at Nauvoo, Illinois. Her parents were early-day members of the Church.... They were living in Nauvoo when the Prophet was martyred, and to escape further trouble moved to Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, where the father stayed long enough to... Get his family settled, and then left his wife and small children there in the summer of 1847 as he started out with a herd of sheep, the first to cross the plains and reach Salt Lake. He walked the entire way, assisted only by a small boy who rode a horse. In the summer of 1848... Susan's mother prepared to start with the Saints to cross the plains, with a thirteen-year-old son to drive their three yoke of cattle. Susan was seven years old that summer. Her father came to meet them and they arrived in Salt Lake in October, safe and well, despite the many hardships. Then came the real test for Susan as she and her young brother herded their father's sheep over the hills in their bare feet, glad to have a supper of sego roots when they got home. She never forgot seeing her father go off to work to be gone all day with only a cup of milk to do him until he returned at night; and seeing her mother treading up and down on her spinning wheel all day and often into the night with tears streaming down her face. About the year 1850, Susan's father... Joined his interests to those of Benjamin Franklyn Johnson... A [former] close friend and intimate associate of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the beginning of a close association between the Holman and Johnson families.... Susan was married to Benjamin Johnson. Their son was my father. I well remember Grandmother Johnson—her sweetness, her gentleness; I remember her insatiable curiosity about life and her zest for it. I remember her quaint but penetrating sense of humor, which made every association with her a time of fun. I never knew her in her own home, but I do know that she always brought much pleasure to ours. She was an avid genealogist, and much of her time when she was in Utah was spent doing work in the Salt Lake Temple. A feeling of warmth and tenderness wells up in me whenever I think of my dear, sweet Grandma Johnson. How can I begin to describe my mother, Deseret (Dessie) Nash Johnson— the dearest to me of these three women who have played so great a part in my life? Though she has been gone from us for over seven years, the memory of her is so strongly imprinted upon my heart and mind that I feel her presence in a very real sense. The passing years, somehow, cannot diminish the vibrance of her spirit. Maybe because of this very fact, it is difficult for me to put her into words —to interpret for others the real person that she was. That realness began and ended in the indomitable but simple THREE WOMEN faith which pervaded every part of her life. She loved her Heavenly Father and she communed with him. Whenever she wanted something, she prayed for it, and accepted the answer—her implicit faith was as uncomplicated as that. She loved the Presidents of the Church, in turn, as she knew them, and she evidenced her devotion by her continuous activity in the various organizations of the Church from her early childhood to the end of her life. She served her community almost as well as she did her Church, but never to the detriment of her family. My mother was a wonderful cook. I never tasted anything in my life that she fixed for us that I didn't like. Nothing in my experience has diminished my belief that she was the best cook in the world. My mother was also an excellent seamstress. She made nearly everything that my sisters and I wore, and we always felt that we were as well-dressed as any of our friends. Her taste, her originality, her ability to achieve the special effect we wanted, made us dissatisfied with anything else. Her fine traits of character— including her complete honesty, her courage in meeting any problem or adverse situation, her unconcern for wordly pursuits or social prestige, except where she could be of service to her friends and her community, her unpretentiousness, her dislike for sham, pretense or any pettiness—where these might be abstract generalities in some, in her they were concrete and genuine qualities. She had a great love for the out-of-doors, and she made a 327 MAY 1966 garden spot wherever she made her home. Even in her late seventies, she spent many hours planting and transplanting her choice shrubs and flowers. Her houseplants she cherished all her life, and some of them she dated back to her own mother's collection, kept alive by succeeding cuttings and transplantings. My mother was a_ natural storyteller, and she loved to sit with us, her children, and tell stories—some which she made up for us out of a vivid imagination and many which were fragments out of her own life. "Once upon a time..." I first heard these words intoned by her so long ago that they are beyond the point of recollection, but the magic of these four little words has cast a spell over my life and I still can project myself into that wonderful world of enchantment with nostalgic delight and yearning. My mother was all these things and more to me; and yet I know that she, like all of us, was not perfection. She would be the last one to gloss over her faults o magnify her goodness. But eve her weaknesses, and her recognition of them, became a source 0 strength to me. These are three women in t background of my life who qualities of courage and strength I can only attempt to approximate, but it is my duty and my responsibility to try to make t attempt. My background is not unique; it is duplicated in t lives of many other Latter-day Saint women. Every woman, she takes her place in each succeeding generation, has a responsibility to those who follow her. The only way any of us can fulfill this great responsibility an acknowledge the great debt we owe is to pattern our lives so th our own children and grandchildren may, in tum, receive th benefits and blessings which a their rightful heritage. MEMORIES Catherine B. Bowles A radiant light still glows Along the byways as I roam— A narrow winding pathway That leads me back to home. With bowed heads by the table Sat my parents old and worn, Giving thanks for all their blessings— For the children they had borne. Father's hands were scarred and shaky, Gently placed upon my head— Then all aches and pains would vanish As he stood beside my bed. Now those memories linger, And though | journey late, 1 feel protective counsel To make my pathway straight. 328 4 Literary Contest Announcements 1966 The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest @ The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1966. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize........0...22..02...2..22--2--$40 Second prize................22..........$30 Third prize 2.0.0.0...$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That is has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. A9 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she' is again eligible to enter the contest. 329 MAY 1966 9. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges; all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem Climax aes ~ 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1966. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. Relief Society Short Story Contest B The Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1966 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1966. The prizes this year will be as follows: Pirst piig@s...7-.........-...------.00$75 Second prize.....................-.-----$60 'iid prize..........................2$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1967. Prize-winning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latterday Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 330 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A. Duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against' loss., 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submit- ted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be LITERARY CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS 1966 submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1966. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. MY NEIGHBOR Dorothy J. Roberts Each spring | fear no furrow May stripe his field again, Age let the ground lie fallow, Spring be a stranger, then. Each spring | scan his garden— Where the fall was neatly burned— Praying his palms may harden And a furrow again be turned, Knowing that sometime winter Will walk a wanton way, And the striving seed of summer No longer line the day.... Then | see fresh earth toppling, White gulls a queue on wing, And on his plow, triumphant, My harbinger of spring! A GARDEN Vera R. Holden Reddish, Stockport, Cheshire, England If | had just a tiny plot, I'd make a lovely bower. I'd plant it with forget-me-nots, And every modest flower. Kind hearts should bloom upon the trees; Much laughter | would sow With happy thoughts borne on the breeze, And nothing sad could grow. And as | gathered—everywhere I'd scatter loving seeds, For these would be my roses rare, And unkind things the weeds. 331 wis that thought Martha, gazing at the papers spread in front longer yours. By a few scribbles of a pen she had transferred to someone else a house, most of which they had built themselves, qa house im which they had brought up the family, whose every corner was "J pelieve 1 understand everyd to the man who stood by the table. Her in spite of the thoughts which tore at her heart. "The lawyer explained everything pretty well the other day when we signed these papers." Bert Randall nodded. "JT guess that's all then, M Those are your papers. ['ve got mine at home." Bert around Martha's big bare now except for the table at which she sat, i sewing machine in its 332 the big windows, plack coal range. "Dorothy and I are going enjoy this place, Mrs. Nelson, the old stove there." Martha said nothing. Bert shuffled his feet better get glong. Best of everything to you, Mrs. Nelson. Must T've got to oil that hinge again, automatically: herself? How could you sell the view of the mountains? What was the value of the gullies where her boys had pursued imaginary Indians, or the apple tree under which her daughters had tended their families of dolls? What price would you place on the fortythree years of toil and hope and tears and happiness she and Jim had put into the land? Her thoughts were interrupted by commotion on the stairs. "Be careful,'"' she heard Rick caution. "This old bureau has been safe up there for at least half a century. Let's not ruin it now." She heard Jeff laugh. "It's my leg that's about to be ruined," he said. "It may not be as old as this bureau, but I'm quite attached to it." Both of her sons laughed, then resumed their hazardous trip down the stairs. Soon they appeared at the bottom, their faces red and perspiring as they carried the unwieldy bureau, which had been part of Martha's first bedroom set, out to the waiting truck. "They sure built things solid in the early days, Mother," Jeff puffed. Beth and Laura came downstairs carrying boxes loaded with dolls and other childhood treasures. "My younger children will have a regular celebration when I bring these things home," said Laura. "Even the older ones may be interested. They have all loved to play with these things when they visited Grandma." Beth put down her box and pulled out a doll with an oldfashioned, brightly painted china face and stiffly neat hair. THE OLD STOVE "T don't think I'll give Flora to my girls," she said. "I think Ill save her for my grandchildren." MiartHa smiled, remembering Beth as a romantic-minded little girl whose dearest possession had been Flora, the doll which her own grandmother had given her. "T'd better stop being lazy and come up and help," Martha said. Laura shook her head. "You stay here, Mother. We have to get everything all sorted and just have to carry it down. Then there is this kitchen stuff and we're all finished." Martha dutifully sat down. As a matter of fact, she was tired. For the past two days she and her sons and daughters had been cleaning out closets and sorting through the collected treasures of forty-three years. Today they had brought the truck to carry away what couldn't be hauled in their cars. Today was the last day on the old place. She was glad that her children could come to help. They had arranged to leave their jobs and their families for a few days and gather for the last time at the old house to help her move. Martha knew she couldn't have faced it alone, either the physical labor or the emotional strain. It didn't seem to bother her children. They seemed so cheerful, as if this were some sort of lark. They had laughed their way through old school papers and pictures and had unemotionally discarded mementos of their childhoods. But then they were grown people now. Jeff was an engineer and Rick a journalist. 333 MAY 1966 Beth and Laura were both married to successful businessmen. They all had homes and families of their own and didn't need their old things. Martha looked around her sunny kitchen. The windows were bare without the bright geraniums which had always bloomed there. They were now in the city, crowded onto the sill of the small kitchen windows of her new little apartment, all jammed together where they didn't fit, just as she soon would be also transplanted to a strange place. Her glance continued around the room, lingering on the dear old treadle-type sewing machine which had stitched patches on 'so many overalls and marched along countless yards of material transforming it into dresses, or quilt tops, or rag rugs. She almost dreaded to look at the old cookstove because of the rush of memories it would bring and the thoughts of leaving it behind, for it was too big and ungainly to move. Besides, she wouldn't need it in the all-electric kitchen of her new apartment. The old stove had stood there in the kitchen for all of Martha's married life, not a sleek, lovely appliance like the modern stoves, but a looming, big, black, friendly monster, with warming ovens rising above its cooking surface, and a reservoir for heating water appended to its side, an essentially unattractive object, yet beautiful in its utility. It had six lids, and numerous little doors tucked here and there for the removal of ashes and soot. There were levers to adjust the draft and a small slot in its side for poking up the coals. The capa- 334 cious oven had turned out countless meals, and the oven door had often served as a place on which to sit to warm oneself. Berr Randall said it was the stove which made the kitchen look homey, and he was right. Just as the big comfortable kitchen was the heart of the house, so the old stove was the heart of the kitchen. Around it the family had gathered after evening chores were done and supper over to listen to the radio, or just to talk. She could almost see Jim sitting there as he had done so many years ago, holding a child on his lap while he read to the whole family. Where had the years gone? It seemed such a short time since she and Jim, newly married, had started building this house. Now Jim was gone, and the house, and farm, and the stove were being left behind. It was so hard without Jim. But then, in a way, she was glad he had been the first to go. Why, what would he have done without her to trim his hair and cook his meals and tell him not to work so hard? Martha wiped a hint of moisture from her eyes and gazed again at the old stove. Hirschvogel, the children had named it after Jim had read them the fairytale about the old Niirnberg Stove. Old Hirschvogel. It had been the first thing she and Jim purchased after their marriage. They had never had much besides the bare necessities, but they had gone ahead and been happy and reared a family with what they had. They had filled their children full of love and homemade bread and sent them out to face the big world. These farm-bred, mountain children had met the challenges and had made places for themselves in the outside world, but they always returned whenever they could, to sit by the old stove and talk of their adventures. Fragments of a phrase from an old radio program came to Martha's mind. Something about a stage on which were played a thousand dramas daily. "Grand Central Station," she recalled. Well, there had been a good many 'family dramas enacted right there in the kitchen in front of the old stove. It was by the stove's warm side she and Jim had sat through the long night after the telegram came saying Jeff was wounded in a battle halfway around the world. And it was around the stove that the family gathered the day he returned, pale and weak after several months in the hospital, but oh, so very much alive. Laura's first baby had his first bath in a pan on the kitchen table close to the warmth of the stove, just as his mother before had been bathed. It was by the old stove that Beth sat the night before her wedding and spoke reminiscently of her childhood on the farm, of her love for her horses, for the chuckling creek, for the meadows and mountains. She had lingered there, softly closing the door on her girlhood, and then the next morning had stood in the same spot, radiant and happy, speaking only of her love for her Bob. Rick had leaned against the old stove, troubled and uncertain, on the day he had decided to risk the operation which would improve his vision or make him forTHE OLD STOVE ever sightless. It was one of the first things he had looked at when he returned home after a successful operation. THE stove was just too much a part of her life. It wasn't a thing she could part with any more than she could uproot and tear out all her memories of the past. She was going to take old black Hirschvogel with her! Perhaps she could crowd it into the tiny kitchen of the city apartment. She didn't think there was a chimney to which to connect it, but at least it would be there. Or perhaps Jeff would store it in his garage. She didn't know what Jeff and the others would say. Certainly they would try to talk her out of it. How could they be expected to understand why an aging woman wanted an old black monstrosity of a stove? There was no place in their busy lives and shining modern homes for an old | relic like that. But she was going to take it with her somehow. It wasn't only the big things she remembered about the stove —it was the little things, too. Such as the way it made the kitchen feel on a brisk autumn morning. Or how the children popped corm on it, pushing the old mesh popper back and forth and then laughing when the corn exploded inside. Who could count the baby chicks who lived through the first precarious days of their lives in a box by the warm stove? Then there was the dog, Old Sport, and the way he used to sneak into the house in the winter and slide across the floor on his belly to hide behind the stove, craftily believing he had escaped detection. 335 MAY 1966 Martha's thoughts were interrupted by the tramping of feet on the stairs. "That's everything upstairs, Mother," Laura said, as she and the others appeared, each loaded with boxes. "We'll be back in a jiffy and get this kitchen stuff," said Rick, "then we'll be off for the city." As they trooped out, Martha wondered how she should tell them about the stove. The best way was just to state she was taking it and then stand firm against their arguments to the contrary, just as she had had to stand firm when they were children. She watched as they returned and carried out the table, chairs, and sewing machine. Then they stood by the side of the truck talking—probably giving her a chance to say goodbye to the empty house. She went to stand in front of the stove when she saw them coming into the house. It would give her strength to stand by her old friend. Her four children filed back into the kitchen and stood in a line in front of her. As she looked at them Martha was reminded of the children they once had been, and the way they used to come and line up like that when they needed her to help solve some problem. Laura cleared her throat. ''Mother," she said, "'you'll probably think we are out of our minds." The others grinned sheepishly. "Mother," Laura continued, "It's like this. We all want Old Hirschvogel."' They wanted the old stove! Before Laura could go on, Beth 336 spoke up. "It seems so much a part of our childhood that we can't leave it. I could probably find a place for it in my family room. Then my children could pop com on it, and I could read to them by it as you used to do." But it wouldn't mean the same to them as it does to you, Martha wanted to say. They haven't grown up with it. They have their own memories. "I could use it in my basement," Laura said. "I'd have to take off the reservoir and also the warming oven, but I would surely like to have it." Take off the reservoir and the warming oven? It wouldn't be the same stove without them. It was Jeff's turn to speak. "T'd even be willing to store it in my garage, just to keep it in the family." "Or maybe you'd like to have it in your apartment," Rick said. "We could probably figure out some way to connect it to a chimney." < Miarrtua looked at her children. How could she have thought moving out of the old home was just a lark to them? They were adults now, but their world had begun here within these walls, and it was as if that particular part of the world was ending when they had to remove a whole lifetime of possessions from the house. They were clinging to the old stove as an anchor to the past just as she was. She smiled at them, lined up there in front of her. Funny. She had never noticed before how the last vestiges of childhood clung to them, apparent in the vulnerable curve of Jeff's cheek, in the springiness of Laura's still pretty black hair, the wonder in Beth's blue eyes, and in Rick's angelimp grin. It was almost as if they were children again, asking for her guidance through a problem. Martha's eyes misted over for a moment and then her vision cleared. They weren't children any longer, any more than she was the young wife and mother who had reigned over this particular little domain for so long. "No," she said briskly, "the stove belongs here with the house. It has a job to do helping to bring up another family. We'll take it along, all right, but only in memories, just as we'll take along — your father, the house, the apple tree, the mountains, and the good times we had here together. Just as I'll take along the little children who once lived here. That old stove wouldn't be the same anywhere else. It would just sit around decaying, reminding us of how it used to be. We're going to live in the present, and we're going to let Old Hirschvogel do the same." The four people before her looked at her silently for a moment, then they smiled. "You're right, Mother," Jeff said. He patted the door of the warming oven. "You know, I envy those Randall kids, growing up here." THE OLD STOVE _ Each one of them rubbed some part of the old stove before going out. Martha was the last to leave. "Goodbye," she whispered. She looked all around the empty, yet memory-filled room and let her gaze linger for just a moment on the old stove. "Goodbye, Hirschvogel." She turned and walked rapidly through the door, closing it squeakily behind her. "You noisy old hinge," she said under her breath. "That's no way to welcome a new family." She snatched an oil can from a box of things she was leaving for Bert Randall, and oiled the complaining hinge. "There," she said, opening and closing the now silent door. Then she walked down the path to where her children waited for her. '"'Let's go," she said. "The lady who lives in the apartment next to mine said the other day that I should come and have dinner with her when I got back, and I don't want to be too late." CLAIM FOR MERCY Christie Lund Coles This is my claim for mercy, Lord, And mercy needs must be... I have loved many children And they, me. 337 Resembling Mother Pearle M. Olsen @ When I called on my elderly uncle recently, my heart was made glad as he said, "I've been thinking about why you always give me a lift and make me happier whenever you come to see me. I always feel so much better after you come. And do you know what I decided? It's because you are so much like your mother was! There was something about her that was good for a person—she was wonderful! You must recall something about her, don't you?" No, I do not remember my mother, for she died when I was twenty-two months old, but throughout my life I have heard only good about her. Often I have tried reaching back into early recollections with the hope that I could bring her image to mind, but always, the photographs we have of her come uppermost, and I have had to be satisfied with them. I do cling to my earliest memory in life, which is brief as a flash. I asked family members if they had ever told me of this happening but none had, so I like to think it was a reality, and I treasure it as a possible whisper of a memory of my mother. » I remember I was sitting in what must have been a high chair, and I enjoyed the swishing sound of someone's skirts, swaying as she walked about the room. Sometimes she stooped to pick up the things I dropped and gave them to me. She caressed my head, sometimes with a kiss, and I felt warm and happy. Even though I cannot see her clearly in my mind's eye, I do think it must have been Mama. RESEMBLING MOTHER Many who knew her well have told me how much [I looked like her, and I was always pleased to hear that. My father used to tell me I resembled her in numerous ways. He has been gone now for twenty-four years, and almost everyone who knew Mama is gone, too. She was only in her twenty-third year when she died. I must have been hungry to have her mentioned by someone again, for my heart sang as I welcomed the fine tribute my uncle paid to her. He had known her very well, and I ccnsidered his words a real compliment. There were surely times in my life when I thoughtlessly stepped from my role of resembling my mother. Fortunately, I repented and made an effort to be more what I knew she would want me to be. Considering the fact that I did not know her, nor have her love and training during my childhood, I must have had many of her attributes, inborn and potential, to have had so many remark on the resemblances. My earlier years were full of turmoil and family sorrows, but along with memories of various housekeepers and girls caring for me, I have more happy ones of my mother's sisters who took care of me for intervals. They loved me and must have resembled my mother, also, in many ways. My father married one of them when I was eleven, and she became the only mother I remember, and I owe much of my happiness to her. During my mature years, I have known pride in having so many | people tell me I resemble my mother, and I have had a fervent desire to do all I possibly could to make her proud of me, also, and of my resemblance to her. Coupled with that desire, has been another one, dear to my heart, in hoping my own daughters and granddaughters may, in some way and degree, feel that same pride and joy in resemblances to mother. JOURNAL OF MARRIAGE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Bound by the sterling clasp of time, This journal keeps remembrances These living lines Of joys and sorrows, Are memories of marriage years The proof that loves grows strong to meet In shared designs. Unknown tomorrows. The lengthening inheritance Unwritten are the years ahead. Fills leaf on leaf, These pages hold Recorded wisdom, strength, and faith The final truths that only time In treasured sheaf. And God unfold. 339 ngels go " SUMMer's: green Urity of Snow, . Zs —— e = Thoughts of a Latter-day Saint Mother Leah Green @ As I look down into the faces of my beloved children, I am consumed with the great responsibility of being the kind of wife and mother I should be. I want to be a helpmate to my husband in every way, sympathetic and understanding of the great responsibility he has in providing for us and to help build his confidence in himself. I hope never to make demands above his power to provide, never to be envious of those who have more in a material way, but rather, to be eternally grateful for what is mine. I shall try to make the most of each day. It has been truly said: "It isn't the house, it's how you live in it that counts." A happy home filled with the spirit of love and understanding can be envied by the millionaire, for sometimes the most elegant of homes, filled with priceless possessions, can house the most unhappy people. President McKay has said: "Our homes should be little outposts of heaven." May mine be a refuge of happiness in this troubled world. May I be guided in the training of these precious spirits that have been entrusted to my care. May I know and understand their many problems. I ask the Heavenly Father to bless me with patience and wisdom in helping them face their lives with courage. May I have power to plant righteous convictions so deep that sin and temptations may have no power to penetrate their lives. May my manners, my speech, and my thoughts be as I would have my children speak, think, and act, for I know that every day I shall be setting a pattern for them to follow in their own lives. I pray for a positive attitude, and not one of self-pity, faultfinding, or an envious one. I pray for constructive ideas that I may grow in faith and wisdom so that I may have the guidance of the Holy Spirit in this sacred calling of being a good wife and mother. 341 A Letter: fo Daughter From Mother Lydia Parker DearM....: While your marriage is young, your heart tender toward your husband, his toward you, and both entwined with that precious baby, may the following inspire you to hold tenderness dearly. (This, no doubt, will seem negative, but using the photographers' method, a negative makes a positive picture.) Swords are used to cut down the enemy. Words are too often used to cut up loved ones. Daggers pierce the heart; at the hand of the enemy they are fatal. When resorted to by a loved one, the heart bleeds, but will heal—will heal with a callous. After a maximum of needless, callous healings, that vital organ becomes toughened with scar tissue and can no longer be reached. — Divorce courts are filled with calloused hearts. Homes are plagued with children whose hearts are callouséd by resentment of angry words that have cut deep. The saddest moments in parents' lives are when they realize they can no longer find tenderness in their children's hearts. It may take a little more time, but no wasted energy to take a child by the hand. Parents are mirrored in the eyes of their children. Eyes of love reflect eyes of love. Children will wear their parents' expression. Just a little more effort often saves the day. Anger and impatience may stem from negligence that crowds one's time. As an aid to being a peacemaker—be ready to take blame. Darling, please understand—it would be too late to say, "I could have told you," so I am writing this letter now. Lovingly, Mom 342 Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Evelyn Wood, a Latter-day Saint woman, in 1959, established in Washington, D. C., the first ''Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute.'' Today she manages fifty-nine institutes in the United States and Canada. She has traveled in many countries speaking on the importance of reading, giving demonstrations, opening institutes, and directing schoolteachers in the application of her methods. Her new technique for rapid reading has been featured in many national magazines, and she is the author of a textbook 'Reading Skills." Patricia Gilroy, a student at the University of Washington, is an expert figure skater. She has won two United States gold medals, and is a demonstrator of techniques relative to her ''art,'' as well as a lecturer on the subject. Katharine McBride, President of Bryn Mawr, ranks high among college presidents in the United States. She probably belongs to more key groups than any single male president. Among these organizations are the National Institute of Health and the National Science Foundation. She has served as president of the American Council on Education, and the College Entrance Examination Board. A noted psychologist, she has led Bryn Mawr for twentythree years. Mrs. Hattie Anderson, eighty-two, Leamington, Millard County, Utah, is still "in business.'"' She is representative of storekeepers in rural areas, who dispense country hospitality and comforting words, along with horseshoes, rakes, hoes, canned goods, wearing apparel, yard goods, household supplies, and notions. Kathy Kusner has been acclaimed top horsewoman of the United States. She entered her first horse show at the age of twelve; scored her first win at fourteen; and at eighteen she set a woman's high jumping record of seven feet, three inches, a record which still stands. At twenty-one she made the United States Equestrian Team and was chosen ''Horsewoman of the Year." Now, at twenty-five, she is making plans to participate in the 1967 PanAmerican Games, and the 1968 Olympics. Laura H. Fisher, a member of the Cheyenne Stake Relief Society Board, has recently had her second novel for children published, '"'You Were Princess Last Time'' (Holt, Rinehart, and Winston). Mrs. Fisher's first book ''Amy and the Sorrel Summer" appeared in 1964. She is the wife of Dr. Roger Fisher, a professor at the University of Wyoming, and they have three children. Mrs. Margaret Durrance (Miggs Jennings) was a member of the 1948 United States Olympic Ski Team. Now she travels the world around writing articles on skiing and illustrating them with her own excellent photography. She is a specially appointed photographer. For the 'National Geographic Magazine."' Mrs. Dorothy K. Haslam, mother of five children, who makes her home in Utah, is a member of the Museum of Ceremonial Art in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and is a well-known collector of Indian artifacts and a lecturer. She is an authority on sand painting and weaving, pottery, and jewelry. 343 344 EDITORIAL Volume 53 May 1966 Number 5 belle 3. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Elien N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis in Relief Society Most young women are motivated by a desire to make something beautiful of their lives. Many realize the need for help beyond themselves for fullest achievement. Some know and others need to be assured that Relief Society offers a way for fulfillment of their goals, that for each desire, Relief Society membership and activity have a reward. Young women who have found themselves in Relief Society have responded to its. Programs with eager acceptance. The more than 6500 members of University campus Relief Societies are among the most ardent of sisters. They bear testimony of their joy in continuing spiritual and cultural education. Dedicated and selfless compassionate service is being given on campuses by the young married sisters. Loving kindness is their watchword. To no women are their homes more precious, their husbands more honored, their children more cherished. Relief Society needs the youthful vigor and enthusiasm, the strength and _ willingness, the knowledge and _ dedication of the young women in addition to the graces and strengths of the mature women. Young women need the guiding influence, the steadying hand, the inspirational teaching, the heaven-inspired leadership of Relief Society. DESIRES Desire to accept what the Lord has | provided. Desire to give full expression to her innate urge to worship and serve the Lord. Desire for growth as a person. Desire for continuing education. Desire to know her religion. Desire for leadership opportunities. Hood. Desire to achieve refinement. Desire to be a worthy wife. Desire to be a noble mother. Desire to be a competent homemaker. Desire to have her capabilities recognized. Desire to overcome weaknesses. Desire to make friends. Desire for social experiences. Desire to give volunteer service. T D ) en | REWARDS Relief Society is a divine gift to women. | The programs of Relief Society give impetus to worship and provide ways to serve. Relief Society encourages and provides intellectual stimulation. Courses of study enlighten spiritually, culturally, mentally, and add to her store of knowledge. The doctrines and principles of the gospel are taught through Priesthood approved lessons. Sisters may hold executive, administra- | tive, committee, and class leader re- | sponsibilities, thus receiving leader- _ ship training. Desire for poise, for gracious woman- | The security of knowing what is right to do is gained by participation in the '| many-faceted Relief Society program. | Relief Society exerts a refining influence by teaching the best, the most | uplifting ideals. Relief Society teaches her to understand the sharing of the blessings of ' her husband's Priesthood. Lessons are correlated with the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons so that husband and wife may be united in gospel understanding. No goal is more desirable and Relief Society leads the way. Skills and techniques are taught to increase her abilities. Relief Society makes use of her talents and helps her discover new talents. Strength is gained by association with wise and spiritual sisters and by profiting from the experiences of others. Friendships so lasting are formed in Relief Society that the Prophet's mother stated that we may all sit down in heaven together. Relief Society has delightful socials where sisters are given incentives to have happy association with others. Opportunities to let her compassionate nature be enlarged are abundant in Relief Society. —t\. W. M. 345 mw Arlene McHugh was making every minute count as she hurried with her washing. Little Clair and Carl were still asleep, but that wouldn't last for long. She gathered up the colored batch and put it in the conventional washer. Then, taking the white batch in the big basket, she went outside to hang the clothes on the line. As Arlene hung her sparkling white wash, she crooned a little overture. She looked at the blue, blue sky, with puffs of clouds arranged artistically. They reminded her of her billowy wash. Indoor clothes dryers were a housewife's best friend on rainy or winter days. But outdoor clotheslines were made for summer. Hanging clothes was such a wonderful time to think and count one's blessings. One blessing was the fact that her husband Barney had a good paying summer job. Which was a mighty fine thing, as Barney tried to make enough in summers to tide them over winters, while he went to college. That 346 Washday Blues Frances C. Yost made it so they had to budget very carefully the year around. Even though they lived in a little modest house, the rent came around like a merry-go-round. And even though Arlene made all her bread and every pie and cake they consumed; even though they used dry milk and economy spreads and_ stretched every grocery dollar to the limit, there just never was money for entertainment of any kind. That was why she and Barney started going to the concerts in the park. That was why they took the'boys to the wading pool and watched them frisk a bit. That was why they started taking nature hikes, and other walking sight-seeing ~expeditions. Who was it had said the best things in life were free? That was true... To some extent. Yes, she and Barney had learned to laugh about what they ealled "the family squeeze." Arlene had remodeled hand-down clothes from both sides of the family. Barney had once said it was too bad Arlene couldn't make shoes, she was so handy at making every other item of clothing. Well, she had sewed up shoes more than once. And she had made dresses and shirts, and well everything, really. She had retailored Barney's suit—when the legs were baggy, and the coat was double breasted. It was a mighty good job, too. Even Mrs. Coombs, who altered at the Bon Ton, said she couldn't have done better herself. Arlene had the whole batch hanging on the line, and it hadn't taken a minute, because her mind had been so active and so blissfully happy. Now Arlene had all her wash out, and was cleaning up the washer. She felt something hard and round and.... She brought it up out of the water. It was a quarter. Arlene smiled and said: "Barney's left change in his pocket again. I've told him 'losers weepers, finders keepers.' "' Then Arlene spied a half dollar. Seventy-five cents! Wow! Now I can buy that tube of lipstick I've wanted. It's so much fun on washday! When she was first married to Barney, washday had seemed such a chore. The very thought of washday gave her the "washday blues." And then one day something had happened. She would always remember that certain washday.... Barney had come home from the sand crusher job, his clothes covered with grease. "I'm glad you haven't emptied your wash water, Arlene. Will you run these coveralls through?" Barney was jerking them off. Arlene, watching, could feel her WASHDAY BLUES nose wrinkling slightly. 'Throw them in yourself, Barney, I hate to touch dirty duds." Later, when Arlene drained the tubs, there had been two dimes in the bottom. "Losers weepers, finders keepers," she teased. -"Tt was worth much more than twenty cents to have the coveralls washed. Go buy yourself a milk shake, honey." "T need some crochet thread, Barney. Finding money is so exciting!" She had laughed as if the sky had suddenly started sprinkling dimes as raindrops.... ARLENE was brought back to the present. This was today. A day wrapped up in the summer of nineteen sixty-five. Arlene just couldn't remember a washday since then that she hadn't found a nickel or a dime or a handful of pennies in the washer when she cleaned it out. She knew it was a little game Barney was playing with her—to take away the blues. Well, it did add interest to what might be a dull day. But today's haul made Arlene think. Seventy-five cents left carelessly in work clothes. Perhaps Barney was careless with money. Perhaps she was the only one who was skimping and making over and making do. When Barney had started working on this particular job he said the fellows always bought dinner at the job cafeteria. He said he could get a nice meal for for seventy-five cents. Arlene liked the idea, too. It cost to put up a nice lunch, and this way she wouldn't need to bother. And it would be more fun for Bamey eating with the fellows, and en- 347 MAY 1966 joying their chit-chat. Yes, it was a good feeling knowing Barney was eating lunches with the fellows in the cafeteria. Then she remembered this morning. Barney had taken the latest copy of The Improvement Era with him. Bamey didn't have time to read. They just had a half hour for lunch.... Arlene glanced at the clock. It was six P. M. Just any time after six she and the boys could start looking for their father to come home. This was a happy time of the day. The boys welcomed him home daily with the same joy they welcomed Santa Claus. And there he was climbing out of Bill "Rice's car, and coming up the walk. "Daddy! Daddy!" The boys were out of the door and scampering to meet him. Arlene watched them with her heart full of joy. Dirty clothes didn't ever stand in the way of a child's love and the need to express it. Bamey was coming through the kitchen door. He ducked low with a boy on each shoulder. He winked at Arlene. "What's for supper? I'm starved." "Hamburger delight." "My favorite." Now he had pitched off the boys and was taking off his coveralls and work shoes in the utility room. "T'll hurry and bathe and be with you in a second." This was routine, but the next sentence was edged with hunger. "I could go for one of your pies... The round uncut kind." Arlene raised her voice to be heard above the bath water flow. "Will you settle for graham cracker pudding?" 348 "My favorite." Supper was funtime at the McHughs. The boys always had lots to tell Daddy. Barney always had happenings at the plant, a joke or two the fellows had related. And sometimes something clever one of the fellows told about their children. Barney liked his work, and the men he worked with. Tonight, Barney seemed to be enjoying his food especially well. He emptied his plate and took seconds all around. He looked over at Arlene and smiled affectionately. "I sure do like my wife's cooking." AFTER supper the boys played in their room, and Barney dried the dishes while Arlene washed them. "What was the special at the cafeteria, Barney?" "Huh? Oh, same old thing." "Did you read the article written by President McKay in the Era?" "Yes, how did you know?" -"One can do a lot of reading in a half hour. That article was so good it would sort of take a man's mind off the fact that he was hungry... Maybe." "What do you mean, honey girl?" "My dear, darling, lovable, generous husband doesn't have lunch money, because he leaves the cost of his dinner in his coveralls so that his wife will be surprised, and will find money to buy lipstick, or some other extravagance that the small budget doesn't allow. Oh, Barney darling! This isn't the first time you have done this. I've been a dummy and didn't figure it out until today. I'm so ashamed." Barney put his arms around Arlene. "Come now. Tears are for funerals and weddings." "Don't ever.. Don't ever leave money where I']] find it in the washer...." "And run the risk of my pretty wife getting the washday blues? Not on your life." "But not at the cost of going hungry. Not ever again, Barney. Promise me." "Don't make me promise, because I've had a lot of fun seeing you wash out my dirty silver.... Too much of it has been filthy copper. But I have a medium of exchange that will make your eyes sparkle. How about this?" Barney pulled out an envelope from his shirt pocket. He withWASHDAY BLUES drew a check and handed it to Arlene. "Twenty dollars! For what!" "The boss made me a sort of foreman. With the job, goes a twenty dollar raise a week. May- -be we can take in a show occasionally. Why I might even hire a sitter and take my girl friend dancing." Barney was smiling one of his nicest smiles now... All crinkly and laughing and fun. "We can stay on the college fund budget and do a few things extra, in a small way, of course." "And eat on washday." Barney's arms encircled her. Arlene felt warm and protected and comfortable as he held her close. Washday can have so many hues, she thought. THE MATCHLESS ROLE Bertha A. Kleinman (Dedicated to Vida D. Brinton, Arizona Mother of the Year) You may not paint the sunset's amber glow, or sculpture as did Michelangelo, You may not be a nightingale to sing your strophe to the wakening of spring, You may not write a Proverb or a Psalm, or author odes and epics wrested from The genius such as Dante could invoke, or Keats, or Shelley with their master stroke. Leave them enframed within their ivoried towers—life must go on in this space age of ours, And there you are as timeless as the race, a rock of ages nothing can efface, Like sentried hills that watch the sleeping plain, with arms outstretched to shelter and sustain. Your footprints down the aisles of dynasties, indent the annals of the centuries, Inured to pain, endurance, and decree, fettered or free, unawed of destiny; A sculptress in the Maker's mighty plan, copartner in the miracle of man, To still bear on the world's vast multitude— Such is the matchless role of motherhood! 349 Soft clumps of pull aparts are pungent islands For nimble feet where quiet waters seep, While sun and white-puff clouds trail endless patterns Along our pink starred paths till shadows creep. The dreaming sky, the scents of earth and flo Rise from my heart, but wander where |! Will, | -searc 'in, vain. For rosy fields, and listen Across the. 'silence for the lark's sweet trill. 4 MEADOW FLOWERS Norma A. Wrathall Now it's May, my truant thoughts are wandering, And we have climbed a tree-lined fence, our quest Star flowers hiding ankle-deep in marsh grass Where meadowlarks call joy from nest to nest. Wers H. Armstrong Roberts Freezer Time Means Free Time Joyce B. Bailey Company coming? You would love to sit down and visit with Cousin Cora and Uncle Bill, but someone has to feed the crowd, and.... Time out for the new baby? Hubby is all thumbs in the kitchen, and piles of dishes are making him frown. Or you just want to take the afternoon off from kitchen patrol and rest a moment, but.... If you have a home freezer, a few careful minutes of planning can save you hours over the week. There is no better way to insure that fix-ahead foods are health-giving and retain the vitamins and minerals so important for your family than to freeze them. Are you in a baking mood? Bake an extra batch of your family's favorite cookies and freeze them in individual bags for lunches. Do you dread daily shopping? Shop less often and let your freezer help you save both time and money as you select the best foods when seasonally abundant. THREE-WAY OATMEAL COOKIES (Basic Dough) 14 c. Soft shortening 2 tsp. Flavoring 2 c. Raw or brown sugar 2 c. Self-rising flour or 1 c. Granulated sugar 2 c. Sifted flour, 2 tsp. Salt, 1 tsp soda 2 eggs 6 c. Rolled oats or rolled wheat 14 c. Water Mix in order listed and' divide dough into three parts. To one part add 2 c. Chocolate chips; to the second part add 2 c. Butterscotch bits; and to the third add 1 c. Raisins and 1 c. Chopped nuts. Spoon onto baking sheets. Bake at 350° for 12 minutes. Cool. Place in polyethylene freezer bags and freeze. Cookies will thaw in just a few minutes, as fresh as when you baked them. 351 MAY 1966 MEAT AND MUSHROOM LOAF 114 Ibs. Ground beef 1% package onion soup mix Y% |b. Ground sausage 1 can condensed mushroom soup 1 c. Rolled oats canned sliced mushrooms 1%, c. Tomato catsup Mix ingredients, except mushrooms and catsup, and press into loaf pan or casserole dish lined with foil. Garnish with the mushrooms and top with catsup. Cover with foil and freeze. Before baking, allow to thaw 114 hrs. Place in 350° oven for 114 hrs. Serve with Parmesan baked potatoes. PARMESAN BAKED POTATOES Select potatoes the desired size, using a mealy variety. Wash, bake 1 hour at 350°. Slice potatoes lengthwise, sccop out center, saving shells. Mash, then whip until light and fluffy with milk, butter, salt, and pepper. Heap into shells and allow to cool. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, wrap individually in foil and freeze. To serve, defrost for 114 hrs. At room temperature; then bake for 40 minutes at 350°. SPINACH DELIGHT Cook 2 packages of frozen spinach according to directions on fjabel. Drain. Add 1 can condensed mushroom soup. Heat and serve. STRAWBERRY SALAD Crush 2 c. Fresh or frozen strawberries, combine with 14 c. Heavy cream, 12 oz. Cream cheese or 114 c. Cottage cheese. Freeze in individual paper cups, uncovered. When frozen, wrap in foil. To serve, thaw at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours. Serve immediately. ICE-CREAM CLOWNS Arrange 12 crisp cookies on a tray. Place a scoop of ice cream on each cookie. Use chocolate chips for eyes and strips of maraschino cherry for mouth and nose. Place an ice cream cone on each scoop for a hat. A real party pleaser! AFTERGLOW Zara Sabin Firelight fingered your face as we Sat silent before its waning glow— My head soft-cushioned on your knee, Our hands close-clasped. No Words were needed, for we were both Savoring the joys of plighted troth. Firelight fingers your face tonight— The hearth is the same and the fire low. | smile as | watch the kindly light Soften your features, till long ago Is yesterday, or so it appears. 352 7 @ Unfortunately our hours do not coincide. In the morning I leave for work at seven-thirty, and my sixteen-year-old son Steve leaves for school at eight. As I rush from the bedroom, dressed, ready to prepare breakfast, Steve scurries from his room, dressed, also, and ready to eat. As he pours the milk and I scramble the eggs, there are only a few minutes for idle conversation. For instance: who won the track meet, and why the coach didn't put him in the hurdles... Which girl he would like to ask to the junior prom, and, again why doesn't the English teacher give out the assignments more than once to any one student? Suddenly, it is time to grab my purse and hurry to the corner Kaye T. Roberts before the bus slides by without me. As I rush down the steps in a starting rain, I wonder what it was I forgot to mention to my son. Always, it seems, there was something important I forgot to say. As a rule, he is home from school by four and off to his parttime job at the market before I step off the bus at five-thirty. Moving like quicksilver, he comes and goes, and I am left with small clues detecting his whereabouts. Tonight, in a hard downpour, I climb the steps and wonder if Steve has been home and gone... The unclosed door provides the answer. In any season, come wind or rain, the front door is left from an inch to wide open. In 353 MAY 1966 his mad rush he forgets to close it tightly. Inside, I close my umbrella and wonder, has he eaten? Removing my wet raincoat I walk toward the kitchen. Rain has brought early darkness and I switch on the lights. If the cupboard and refrigerator doors are closed and the sink clear, then I expect to find a note saying he is planning to eat out. Normally though, he has left his clues; on the sinkboard an opened jar of mayonnaise, a jar of peanut butter, an empty soup can, a loaf of opened bread, a half-sliced onion, a greasy skillet. Tonight, the refrigerator door is ajar and a bit of meat is left in the skillet on the stove. Like Hansel and Gretel, he has trailed crumbs from the kitchen, through the hallway, and into his bedroom. In his bedroom, I look around for his slicker. Is it on his back, or will he come in later drenched to the skin? I figure this out by subtraction and deduction. His tan school pants are on the chair, and his shoes are upside down and his socks inside out on the green throw rug beside his bed. A brown belt is flung over the top of his dresser and his blue work pants are missing. Thus, I presume he has been in, changed, and gone to work. His slicker isn't draped over the chair back or thrown on his desk, so I hope it is on his back. And, yes, he has showered. The wet towel has been carried in and dropped on the bedspread, and the washcloth drips from the edge of the wash basin. Leaving the room, I pick up 354 an empty milk bottle, this moming's sports section, orange peels, a pair of soiled socks, and used notepaper that has missed the waste paper basket by a mile. I straighten the shades and hang up his pajamas. A lamp falls from a stack of magazines that are piled on his night stand. The lamp and magazines hit a pile of records, and they all strike the floor! All right, this is it! Starting tonight, I'm turning over a new leaf. We're going to improve this room. Completely discouraged, I size up Steve's room. Where have I failed? Tonight Ill be ready with a lecture. When he comes whistling in the door I'll be ready. How can this sixteen-year-old son of mine high jump, swing a tennis racket until it is a thing of beauty, play such a dreamy clarinet, and still be so thoroughly careless? How can he slip out of the door looking so clean-cut and leave this total mess behind? As I lift my hand to turn off the light, I see the report card that has slipped under his bed. Reading it, I want to cry. Four solids are only mediocre grades. I was so in hopes he'd make at least one accelerated class. I walk back to the kitchen, tired both in mind and body. Self-pity, that I so often hold in check, sweeps over me again. I've missed so much, not being home perhaps at the important moment, not being able to eat our meals together. Not being home when he opens the door, not being here to call goodbye when he walks out. In the service porch, something wet and dripping strikes me full in the face. I quickly flash on the switch and find three pairs of gym socks and two gym shirts hanging on a make-shift line to dry. The clorox is stifling. Sickly, I remember. I had forgotten to wash his gym clothes the night before. I enter the kitchen, ready to prepare a rather thin, lonely meal. There among the dirty dishes I find a note I had missed earlier. Steve had hurriedly written on a scrap of notebook paper: I just remembered that you might not get your check cashed. Here is three bucks... Go out and get yourself a good meal, Mom. P. S. You forgot to leave a note for the milkman. I'll bring two quarts of milk home from the store. Steve. Time for a lecture? I sink down on a kitchen chair. Forgive me, son, I think to myself. So you forgot to shut the door, hang up your clothes, and tidy your room. You had thought about me. You washed your gym clothes, and cloroxed them, bless you, right in my kitchen sink. At least you had tackled the job. In your own sixteen-year-old way, you had prepared your own food. Slipping my hand into my dress pocket, I bring out the report card. This time I read the THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT note from the teacher about an inquiry I had made about Steve's citizenship grades. "Steve is very cooperative," he wrote, "courteous, gets along well with others, appears to be welladjusted, and respects the rights of others. However, he needs to improve upon neatness on his homework assignments. He could make better use of his class time." I stand up straight and carefully fold the paper. On second thought, I'm not as fatigued as I first thought. My appetite is climbing. Just for tonight, I'll count my blessings, and forget about the lecture. Instead, I want to think of a rather clever note to leave upon the clean kitchen table, so Steve will be sure to see it when he takes the milk to the kitchen, later, when he comes from work. Something about thanking him for being so sweet and leaving me the three dollars. It would — take a bit of thinking, for sixteenyear-old boys don't like to be told they're sweet. I pick up the greasy skillet and put it to soak. In a short time, I think to myself, humming, while my own dinner cooks, the right words will come. UNTO OTHERS Maude O. Cook Be generous with praise and slow to censure, For oftentimes a kind word heals the heart, While condemnation freezes good intention, And leaves a wound as deep as would a dart. 355 PINK AND WHITE flowers decorate this bulletin board made for a girl's room. A perfect organizer for all those things she likes to collect. IDEAL for a narrow wail space is this slender bulletin board measuring 13" x 36". Telephone messages, shopping lists, and must-do's for the day find their way to this strategically located hanging. LEO THE LION cut of felt parks firmly on the bulletin board of this grade-schooler. Any number of designs might grace this kind of board, made from composition board and covered with burlap. Bulletin June F. Krambule A practical gift for adult or child; ideal organizer for a busy mother; instant-reminder to a forgetful teenager; attractive wall decoration, costing about a dollar—these describe a simple-to-make, easy-to-use bulletin board that can be completed in an afternoon. It was devised by Mrs. Barbara Fishburn of Ogden, Utah, who made several for her children, who were great collectors of this-and-that. To construct one of these bulletin boards, first obtain a piece of composition board, approximately 17" x 26" (costing about fifty cents), or in any shape you may prefer. Cover with burlap in your choice of color, requiring not more than two-thirds yard, and costing about forty cents. Stretch the material smoothly over the board, keeping the grain of the fabric straight. Glue in back and tack or staple securely. Corners should be carefully clipped and mitered, making them as flat as possible. Now, decorate and trim to your heart's desire with lions, flowers, fruits, bees, parasols, butterflies, fish, or trees! Bits of colored felt to match your decor are ideal for this. Apply a stick-on wall hanger, provide push-pins, or those with glass heads—then use well and often. 357 Much of Worth - The Relief Society Magazine Mabel L. Anderson m''That surely must be a good Magazine," Mark said, as he took his grandmother's picture. "You are always reading it." "Tt is, the best in the world," Grandma Violet Nielsen answered as she continued to peruse The Relief Society Magazine. That she was always reading it, was not quite accurate. When one saw the mountains of sewing she did, of cross-stitched aprons, pillows, quilt tops, crocheting, and items for the bazaars and trousseaux for granddaughters; when one tasted her good home cooking, and visited her neat little home, one knew that her hands were indeed busy. But when leisure moments came to her, when she must stop to rest, the little Magazine she loved was right at hand, by her rocker or easy chair, or bedside table. As soon as the postman delivered it, matters of less urgency were dropped "'just to glance through it." Sister Nielsen, as thousands of Relief Society women throughout the world, has found much of worth in the Magazine. Through it she can keep up with the lessons, whether she is able always to be at the meetings or not. Through it she becomes vicariously acquainted with people in other lands, in other walks of life, and yet keeps in touch with her own people at home. In its pages she comes in contact with the thoughts, with the minds of great men and women of the Church, of the world. From it her testimony of the gospel gains strength. 358 THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Within it she often finds expressions of her own thoughts for which she has never quite found the words. For relaxation, she enjoys the interesting, homey stories, and likes to try one of the recipes now and then, or a new pattern for handwork is always a delight and a challenge to her. Someone said that books are like people—that they have a soul. Then our little Magazine is surely a friendly soul and shares with its readers pleasures, dreams, hopes, revelation, offers words of comfort in sorrow, is a wise counselor for problems. It is a friend one likes to have in one's home, at one's fireside, by one's easy chair, as it is with Sister Nielsen. Although we do meet many of the great of the world there, most of them are the folksy folks like you and me and Grandma Nielsen who talk to us in words we know and can understand. Yes, women look forward to the Magazine with pleasure, with anticipation. It speaks to us of the modern world in which we live, of a future world that is coming, but to many of us who are approaching the twilight years we often find much in it of memory, of recognition, and it gives to the younger women an occasional backward look to other, older ways, and makes for understanding. An old adage says a man (or woman) is known by the company he keeps. What gentle, kindly company Grandma Nielsen keeps. After a session in her easy chair with her little Magazine, her mind and body are refreshed. TO ONE AWAY Enola Chamberlin There is remembering in my heart tonight— Not just of spring as winter winds blow cold; Not just of summer with its warmth and light, Nor of the autumn with its bronze and gold. But recalling in my heart of other days When other winters lay along the land; Exploring feet were walking other ways, And to my hand there clung another hand. You are not lost completely but the miles Are Jong and far that keep our hands apart, And loneliness like wind-blown snowdrifts piles its bitter cold around my yearning heart. And though ahead | see a beam of light, There is remembering in my heart tonight. 359 360 Genevieve Van Wagenen mAs youngsters we romped together, sat on the back porch at grandma's, and ate jam on homemade bread which she had baked. We laughed at our jam-smudged faces, appointed a committee of one, to ask for "seconds" for us all. Together, we peeked into the silent parlor (which was usually off limits), admired the red plush chairs and spun glass flowers grandma prized so highly. Disregarded the cautions and warnings and slid down the banister, walked the picket fence, climbed the apple tree, ate our fill of )! Green apples. Caught pollywogs and water skaters under the bridge. Popped corn, we helped grandpa shell, by rubbing two cobs together. Tested skill, as we jumped on the hay in grandpa's bam. Acted as good Samaritans by removing the itchy straw we'd tumbled into, from each others shirts and necks and hair. Drank water from grandpa's sparkling flowing well. Made yards and yards of dandelion chains. Played train in the old wooden swing, each taking his turn being the conductor, collecting tickets, calling stations, and letting passengers on and off. We shared birthday parties and valentines, Thanksgiving Days and Christmas. Carved jack-o'- lanterns. Treasured the willow whistles grandpa taught us how to make—how carefully he selected the willow! How gently he tapped the bark with his pocket knife, to loosen it; then slipped it off and made that all-important notch in the wood, then slid the bark back on again. Each owner tested his out for sound. When each one had a whistle, we formed a band. Our enthusiasm would have made John Philip Sousa envious. Together we waited (during what seemed the longest time in our lives) while the adults ate their dinner. We watched the steaming bowls of vegetables passed about. The meat disappearing. Smelled the fragrant, tantalizing aromas that made us impatient. Listened to the adults' joyous conversation that droned on endlessly. At last someone remembered us. The dishes were cleared away, the table reset, the bowls refilled. After what had seemed an eternity, we were all seated around the table. Yes, our hopes and prayers had been answered, there was still some chocolate cake left, and homemade ice cream, enough to make the rounds—but not enough to satisfy our appetites. (Could it ever?) We were often together on Sunday evenings. We sang hymns together and knelt in our family prayer as grandpa prayed for one and all. We waved or called goodbye as each family separated and trudged home. So much we shared together of fun and love, of learning and _ comradeship. The sidewalk wasn't broad enough to hold us all, as we walked with arms locked - around each other's necks. Yes, there were favorites among our group. We tolerated the younger "tag-alongs" and "tattle tales" and made plans to "get even" with youthful informers—plans that had never materialized, for THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT grandfather, as patriarch, meted out justice to both accused and accuser and taught a Christian lesson to both. We were a happy, carefree group of youngsters. Tall and short, blond and brunette, blue eyes and brown, curly hair and straight, but somewhere intermingled in all our differences was a similarity. We bore the trademark of our sturdy pioneer ancestors—you could tell we "belonged." THEN industry and _ transfers scattered our families. No longer was distance measured by blocks and miles. We were separated by states and hundreds of miles, even thousands of miles. Years parted us. Rarely did we share together the warmth of grandpa's stove, or gather round the organ grandma played. When we were there—others were not. No time seemed convenient for all. We heard of "doings," achievements, and tragedies. Grandma kept in touch with all. Then grandma passed away. Then grandpa. That was the last time we were all together. The communication lines never again operated as efficiently as when grandma was in charge. Procrastination, neglect, responsibilities —life itself, almost severed the lines of communication. Aunt Mary, the family genealogist is our main source of information, now. Recently we have been returning—returning at rather frequent intervals. Not to grandpa's home, for it has long ago been sold. Not to our childhood homes; for years they have housed strangers. We have returned with bowed and 361 MAY 1966 reverent heads, with loved ones, to the quiet, hallowed family plots. To pay last respects to a beloved parent, a favorite uncle, or a thoughtful loving aunt. We look around. At first glance, there are strangers in our midst, but they are strangers only momentarily. A smile, a softly spoken childhood nickname, a_ peculiar little chuckle, erases the camouflage of years and reveals—our cousins! What memories crowd around! What joys abound! What surprises! Little blond curlyheaded Georgie, whom we've remembered through the years as being such a doll, is a tall, distinguished, gray-haired lawyer, now. Tom, who once could jump the farthest in the hay loft, has continued to make great strides— he is a big executive in the East. Skinny Mildred has changed so much—she is well-padded, now. We never would have recognized her, if she hadn't been with Aunt Mill. Just think, we who once were pals, could have passed on the street without knowing one another! The handshakes are firm, the hugs and kisses plentiful. We feel the family's eternal tie. Lapy luck has leaned heavily on some. Other cousins, she has snubbed. Tragedy has trudged the path with some. Success has followed others all the way. Talent has mingled freely with them all. Some have clung to the ''iron rod," others relinquished their grasp and habits now seem to have pushed it beyond their reach. But wait! There is hope! They were wiping their eyes after the dedicatory prayer. The solemnity of life has made an im- 362 pact upon them. Faith has been fanned into a spark. Its light reflects in their eyes. Resolve is felt in their grip and voice. Grandma will be pleased. The cemetery is a sacred spot for us. Grandfather and grandmother are buried here, and their parents before them—our courageous, God-fearing pioneers. Grandfather was sexton at the cemetery for a number of years. As youngsters, we knew the cemetery well. There were old familiar headstones and _ wellknown family names that caught our quick attention. The towering granite shaft of the wealthiest man in town stands high above all others. There is the "weeping woman" carved in whitest marble, sitting with bowed head. She has kept a silent vigil through all these years. "Over there is another familiar stone," said cousin Beth, motioning southward. Yes, there was the huge gravesize slab of pinkish brown marble. It is two feet thick. In the center rests a large highly polished ball of matching marble. The ball is all of three feet high. '"'Do you remember how that bothered us? We worried how that poor man would ever get out on resurrection day, with all that weight on him." So we reminisced, happy in our reunion. Sorrowing that only a funeral could bring us together. Mindful of the fact that once goodbyes were said, and each went his separate way, we might not meet again in this life. Such is life, and time. But we are thankful for our rich heritage, our common bond, and the joyous happy years of youth we spent together as cousins. A Pod Full of Peas Helen Hinckley Jones @ Like other American housewives, I have learned to do things the easy way. I have a ready thumbnail for the breakfast food box or the quick mix, a flexible wrist for opening cans and emptying their contents into a bowl or saucepan. But every time I drop a frozen mass of green peas into the required boiling salted water and hear the "klop," I remember the beautiful music fresh peas make as they ping into a pan. Peas don't play bravura music. Even with as rapid a "sheller'" as my mother was, there is a delicate one-note-at-a-time sort of music. "Helen, would you like to help me shell the peas for dinner?" Mother would ask, and the two of us would sit down with the peas on a paper between us, each with a bow! On her lap. An extra special atmosphere of oneness would settle upon us as we commenced to pop open the pods and drop the peas into our pans. I'd eat all of the little underdeveloped ones as they came from the pod, and we would talk. We were shelling peas when Mother told me about the "olden times" when she was a little girl and knew such great men as Brother Maeser, the first President of Brigham Young University. Sdmetimes, she told me of how she met Daddy and fell in love with him and how they were married in the Manti Temple. Sometimes, she talked of the even more ancient time when her mother, my quiet little grandmother, was a lively girl in England, or of how her father crossed the plains with the Gold Rush, but saw Grandma in a Great Salt Lake City kitchen and never completed his journey. We were shelling peas when IJ asked her, a little awkwardly, perhaps, about how babies come into the world. And she, looking at her fast moving hands instead of into my eager face, because even with her own little girl she was a bit reticent, told me about what it means to be a woman, a wife, a mother. 363 We were shelling peas when I told her about my sixth grade "crush" and my ninth grade "heartbreak," and still later of my adolescent plans and aspirations. Nowadays mothers say that they can't "get through" to their daughters. Girls who have confided in me say that they wish they could talk with their own mothers. Because of this lack of communication, mothers and daughters, too, go through the days and weeks and years never understanding each other, never really discovering how to make their lives touch. Because they cannot tolerate this distance between them, or because things go wrong, mothers and daughters, too, seek family counselors, psychologists, analyists, psychiatrists. Perhaps all of this expensive counseling is helpful, perhaps, sometimes, it is necessary. But maybe what mothers and daughters need is a quiet hour with three pounds of garden-fresh green peas that need four hands to do the shelling. 14 c. Vegetable oil 1% c. Light vinegar VY c. Sugar dash paprika sprinkle of pepper 1 green pepper (medium sized, finely 1 can tomato soup cut) 1 tsp. Salt (or less for individual taste) 1 onion (size of small egg), minced 1 tsp. Mustard (prepared) l% c. Finely cut celery Blend in your blender or mixmaster, or shake well in a bottle, all ingredients except the green pepper, onion, and celery. When the other ingredients are blended, toss in the cut green pepper, the minced onion, and the cut celery. Keep in a covered jar in the refrigerator. This wonderful dressing is delicious with lettuce and sliced tomatoes, or lettuce alone. Any combination of salad vegetables is delectable with this dressing. 364 MAY 1966: Ismilda England - Expert With Crochet Hook and Quilting Needle Ismilda Thueson Dorchues England, Ogden, Utah, throughout her long life, and during her many years as a homemaker, has found that her handicraft skills have helped to beautify her home, and the homes of her friends and relatives. She is an expert with the crochet hook, and makes many of her own patterns. She is currently busy making exquisite edgings on illowslips for her ward bazaar. She has made hundreds of quilts, and the homes of her six children, her grandchildren, and most of her great-grandchildren are adorned with beautifully designed and carefully stitched quilts. Ismilda Thueson Dorchues was married to William England in 1891, and they are said to be one of the longest married couples in the United States. Sister England has been a Relief Society class leader, a visiting teacher for more than fifty years, and she served as Relief Society president of Plain City (Utah) Ward for ten years. She is skilled in all household arts, and, in addition to her handicraft skills, she is noted for her cooking and baking. For Ismilda England, life has been ''busy, buoyant, and beautiful." 365 Wheat for the Wise Chapter 5 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, has received his permission for the family to participate in Church activities for a trial period of one year. Jennie feels that through her work in teaching a Trekker class in Primary, and the" children's active interest in their assignments, their home is gaining a spirit of love, cooperation, and a willingness to become _ part of a larger purpose. @ Jennie tried to make her voice very bright, "Guess what?" "What?" asked the Trekkers suspiciously. "We've been asked to be on the program for the Christmas party." The Trekkers, as one man, fell off their chairs and lay about the room groaning. "Enough," Jennie said sternly, "quite, quite enough. Every man in place." Still groaning, they climbed back. They looked at her gloomily, "What do they want us to do?" "We can choose," said Jennie, still striving for enthusiasm. "TIsn't that wonderful! We can do a play or sing or make a pageant.... We can be amusing or inspiring. It's up to us. What do you want to do?" " 366 eee ee "Nothing!" they cried in shrill accord. Then they settled down to the business of deciding which would be the most startling innovation ever to grace the stage. Jennie listened with a very real interest. It never failed to fascinate her, the barbarism of the ten-year-old mind. "But we want to make the people happy," she said. "We want to give them something beautiful to remember." "We can't ever please them," Billy said, "nobody can't please anybody that's over twelve years old." The others nodded in solemn unison. Jennie secretly agreed with them, in part. It was pretty difficult to be male and ten. Little girls had it better, they were born with an instinctive grace and knowledge of the way to the grown-up heart, but ten-year-old males might as well be equipped with cactus needles. She looked at their doleful faces. She had herself unexpectedly and irrevocably fallen in love with the lot of them. She no longer smelled peanut butter or sneakers, she no more noticed the tumbling and never-ending battle for supremacy. To her, they had become founts of unexpected profundity, isles of laughter, pools of innocence. They fought to sit by "our teacher," she would have been brokenhearted if they were taken away. "We have to do it," she said to them now, "they expect it of us, and they don't expect us to be too good, that's where we'll have to surprise them." "Let's do the play," Billy suggested. "I know a real dinger... It seems this cowboy...." "No," said Jennie firmly. She studied them. "'Let's try a carol," she said. "How about 'Silent - Night'?"' She gave them the key and | they sang. Jennie stopped singing and listened. They were quite | good, really, Their voices, espe- | cially Billy's, were high and true, |clear and appealing. In class, away from the wrath of injured neighbors, they were not afraid to sing out. "Very good." She passed around songbooks and toJd them the page. "Now... Let's try it | again... Second verse this time." But the second verse was con- _ spicuous by the absence of Billy's voice. "Come on, Billy." He tossed the book down. "Don't want to." "But we need your voice." WHEAT FOR THE WISE "It makes my throat ache." "Nonsense... You didn't ache on the first verse." "Well, I'm aching on the second one... Real hard." She turned to the class. "All right... We'll try it again without Billy." The class pealed forth and, to her bewilderment, Billy joined in again after the first few words. He sang 'happily, his eyes open and inward turned, all of him listening to the new-found splendor of his own voice. "Third verse." "I'm tired,'' Billy said. Finally, she put the book down. "Enough for today, we'll go on to our lesson. But I would like all of you to come to my house for practice, every Friday afternoon, until the party. We'll have something delicious to eat, waiting for you." "TI can't come," Billy said. "But we especially need you." Jennie meant it. His voice was exceptionally sweet. Billy tucked his chin in his tattered shirt and was silent and mutinous. Own the way out of class he reverted to the behavior he had shown when she first came, gagging the other Trekkers, running through the halls. He sat beside her, however, at the closing exercises. Suspicion of the truth had begun to gnaw at Jennie. She held fast to his elbow. "I want to talk to you, Billy." " T gotta run. Mom will be expecting me." "Just one minute... Or wait... I'll drive you home." She scrambled him into the car with her own children. But 367 MAY 1966 when they reached Billy's house she commanded them to wait in the car. She waited for Billy to get out of the car and walked along the sidewalk with him. "Billy? What grade are you in?" "Fifth." "How is it that you can't read, and you're in the fifth grade?" He grinned impishly, "I memorize fast." She thought of the speed with which he had committed the second verse to memory. "But Billy! You're brilliant!" He shook his head. "I've got. A block in my head. The doctor told my mother. I can't never read." When Jennie reached home, Rex was already there. He was eating a slice of leftover pumpkin pie and drinking some of the children's chocolate milk. "Don't quote calories!" he warned. She told him about Billy. He shrugged. "It happens." He took another drink of the milk. "The headlines awhile back were rich with the tidings that Johnny could not read. I thought they'd gone underground." Jennie went to the telephone. Rex looked up, alarmed. "Are you going to call his teacher?" "No, his mother." She dialed the number, wondering how to broach so delicate a subject. Rex listened openly and with unfeigned interest. "Mrs. Wentworth, this is Jennie Starr... Yes, Billy's Primary teacher. Why, thank you! Did he really say that?" "Flattery will get you nowhere," Rex teased. She turned away. "I think Billy is one of the finest boys in our ward. Yes, I do." 368 Mrs. Wentworth went at once — to the heart of the trouble. "You have discovered Billy can't read." Her voice was low and weary. Jennie, taken aback, swallowed, unable to think of anything to say except the obvious. Mrs. Wentworth sighed. "I have four other children and a job.... We've had a lot of family trouble. But I did take Billy to the school psychologist... On recommendation from the principal." "What did he say?" "He said Billy had a block. About reading...." WYENNIE looked about her beautiful, shining kitchen. She remembered the run-down little house that was Billy's. She had a swift picture of a determined, overworked mother, who simply had no time. Just that, no time. "Would you let me try, Mrs. Wentworth...?" Rex shook his head and looked at her in wonder and compassion as the telephone conversation lengthened. '"'She'll let me," Jennie said in triumph, when she hung up the telephone. Rex watched her as she slid wearily into the chair across from him. "Don't you feel crowded inside?" "No. Should I?" "IT wonder sometimes, all the people you take to your bosom. Billy Budd isn't yours." "He's my Trekker." She tilted her chin. "What kind of relationship is that?" She rested her chin on her palm. "It's a teacher-student relationship. That's one of the best kinds."" She leaned across the table. "Did you ever stop to think of all the relationships there are in the world?" "Yes," said Rex quickly. "You told me before.'"' He regarded her thoughtfully. '""You're really putting a lot of yourself into this class." Was she, then, trying too hard? Doing too much? Was he disappointed... Was she neglecting some other facet of their lives? "Please tell me," she said, "if you would rather I didn't. Remember, you are the important one to me." Rex stood up. '"What kind of a heel would I be to stand in the way of Billy Budd, or the others. And besides, have you any idea how beautiful you have grown lately?" In true feminine fashion, Jennie ran to a mirror to evaluate herself. She came back dejectedly, "I can't see any difference. I think I'm getting fat." "T can see the difference,' Rex said, "and you are not getting fat... Just different." Billy came twice a week to sit in Jennie's kitchen and _ study words. He came on Saturday afternoons and Monday « after school. Jennie had armed herself with word cards and books and a larger blackboard. Billy sat gingerly at the kitchen table. He munched the apple she had offered him and was immovable. "A is for apple...." he snorted, 'kid stuff!' He was scornful, but he could not read "apple" on the card she held up. "B is for ball." Billy looked longingly out the window where Lance was rolling snow. "I can't read," he said, WHEAT FOR THE WISE "everybody's tried to make me. I can't. I have a block in my head."' The baby woke up from his nap and shrieked for attention. Jennie left the book for Billy to study and ran upstairs to attend to Johnny's wants. The baby provided for, she knelt and prayed briefly and with fervor. "Let me not be one more failure in Billy's life... One more hope disintegrating under his fingers." Sue picked Johnny up and went downstairs and put him in his play pen in the family room. She stopped and listened to the sound of voices, Sabra's and Billy's. On tiptoe she went down the hall to the kitchen. Sabra, chin in hand, was admiring Billy from the vantage point of the high stool. "... But when you really won the game for us, was when you pitched against Joe Stevens... He could not hit a single ball.'' She continued with childish candor, '"'Are you always that wonderful?' "Yeah," said Billy confidently, "sometimes I'm better than that time. I'll be on the Yanks when I grow up." "You sure will,' said Sabra, adoring the thought with him. "You'll probably be on all the football teams and the baseball teams of the United States of America." "Yeah." said Billy. "I'l] probably be real rich, but I won't change. I'll still be real good to people like you and your mother." Jennie watched as Sabra got down and went over to peer at the cards. ''What are these for?" Billy squirmed. "Your mother 369 MAY 1966 wants me to do it... I'm doing it for her." "Oh." Sabra picked up a card. "T'll hold them up for you. The way I learned to read was over and over and over on the same word until it stuck. Some words stick easy and some words stick hard." She held up a card, Billy leaned his face on his hands and began to perspire, "A is for apple." Sabra held up another. "B is for ball," Billy said scornfully. Sabra nodded sagely, 'What did I tell you! Ball is an easy sticker." Jennie went quietly into the living room and sat down with a magazine. After some twenty minutes she went back to the kitchen. Billy was on "M is for Mother." She took over the cards and reviewed him. He could read. She told him that. "You really know how.... It's just getting the words through...." Billy said, ""Sometimes it's easy and sometimes I forget." No, she told him silently to herself, I believe that sometimes you are with an adult, who is a reminder of the terrifying world... And sometimes you are with someone like Sabra, who instinctively knows how to put you in the climate of receptivity. "Enough for one day," she told 370 him. "Come on out," Billy offered largely to Sabra. "T'll show you how fast I can build a snowman." Jennie watched them from the kitchen window. Sabra, the remote, Sabra, the withdrawn, being chased by a boy, having her face washed, screaming with fury and delight. Jennie turned to the task of peeling onions. She pushed back the hair from her forehead with the back of her hand. "People! Youngsters! Who could ever figure them out!" Christmas crowded closer. Jennie had never been so busy... All the usual holiday parties, Billy's lessons, the Trekkers' rehearsals ate up the hours. She bought presents in crowded moments. She rehearsed the boys with last-minute knitting cupped under her arm. She taught Billy while she sewed. Sabra's teacher, Miss Myers, came to call. Jennie fed her lemonade and fresh cookies. Miss Myers was a tall woman with a thin, sensitive face and long, bony fingers tipped with unpolished nails. "Sabra is an unusual child, Mrs. Starr." '"'We've wondered about her ourselves." Jennie smoothed her skirt. "We don't always understand her." "Her poetry is remarkable." "Poetry?" asked Jennie. "Oh, my, yes." Miss Myers nodded vigorously. "I've never read anything like it." Jennie bent her head. She could not say, I have not seen — Sabra's poetry. She was silent. "IT came to ask," said Miss Myers, after a pause, "if I might submit it." "Submit it?" asked Jennie, puzzled. "Yes.... I would like to very much... There is a place... That I thought might find room for it."' "Tf you like," said Jennie stiffly. She sat very straight against the back of the chair. Why had not Sabra ever shown her the poems? Why did the child lead so solitary and quiet a life, shunning the parties and finding an apparent delight in solitude. Except for the inexplicable, to Jennie, friendship with Billy Wentworth, Sabra walked alone. Miss Myers rose; relief and anticipation made her face glisten. "Tt's been lovely. You know... I feel as though Sabra were my own child. I don't suppose you know that feeling... Not being a teacher." "T know the feeling," said Jennie definitely, but without enthusiasm. She closed the door on Miss Myers and went back to her knitting. It was all very well for her to feel that the Trekkers were her own, still, the thought of Miss Myers claiming Sabra, made the green envy rise like a tide. Not only that, but tears were splashing on the red yarn in her lap. She wiped them away with her fingertips and regarded the moisture curiously. Now why? It was the poetry... The secret of her child that belonged to another woman. Jennie jabbed the needles through the yarn and tossed the ball into the basket. She would have stew tonight. That wouid serve them right! Children! She hadn't intended to tell Rex, but then, when could she ever keep anything from him? WHEAT FOR THE WISE Anyway he guessed. "Stew!"' He put the lid down unhappily. "Who is in the doghouse?" "Nobody. We have to economize sometimes." He came to her and lifted her chin. "Give!" he demanded. She told him about Miss Myers and the visit. He released Jennie and went to the windows. He stood with his back to her, but Jennie knew he was as upset as she. "Read the poems... Just get them and read them." "No."' "Why not?" WHEN. She groped around in her mind for a good reason why not, she could find only one reason, "Brigham Young said a child had as much right to his privacy as a grownup... That they should have a chest to keep their treasures in... And a key besides. I guess he meant they had to have a corner of themselves for themselves." Rex turned angrily. 'This is my house," he said, "bring me the poems." Jennie shook her head. "I can't. You'll have to get them." "T'll order Sabra to bring them to me," he said firmly. 'Parents have a right to know what their children are thinking and doing." But that's the letter of the law, not the spirit, Jennie thought, it's like going into a secret garden and tearing up the ground to see what your child has planted. Jennie went to Rex and took his arm. It was her fault. Her manner of telling it "had made Rex angry and confused. "'Let's wait... Just a little longer." 371 MAY 1966 He did not want to wait. "T'll think about it,' he said. He went out to help Lora put her sled in the garage, his parting shot, "But no more Brigham Young, if you don't mind." Jennie shivered. The year was going by so swiftly, and she was pushing all the wrong buttons. Christmas, for Jennie, that year, was to be forever remembered by two events. One was the surprising success of the Trekker chorus. Not only were they the hit of the Christmas party, but they were asked to repeat their performance for Sunday night sacrament service and for three other wards during the holidays. Jennie and Rex, hurrying the boys here and there in the two cars, found themselves again and again the center of congratulatory groups. "They make me feel such a heel," said Rex. "And in the first place I had nothing to do with at." Jennie hugged him briefly. "But we couldn't even get to these places without you to drive us, and I couldn't handle them, without you to help me." Rex put his arm around her and drove home more slowly. "I still don't see how you did it... The voices, I mean." Jennie yawned sleepily. "The voices were theirs... The discipline was only acres of chocolate cake." "Wasn't that bribery?" She snuggled against him. "Is not heaven bribery?" she said quickly, "I really didn't mean that the way it sounded... Only people think that if you give children something to sweeten the task at hand... It's wrong 372... But it's these glimpses I've had of heaven, that make me put my shoulder more firmly to the wheel when lots of times I'd rather not." Rex kissed her. '""What's your heaven, my dear?" She looked at him soberly. "You are my heaven... Laugh if you like... But without you... I can't get where I want to go... Nor take my children with me." But Rex was mutinous, though he understood. THE second thing that happened was Christmas morning. She had gone down early, she and Rex, to be sure, they told each other, that nothing had happened to the gifts overnight. But, in reality, to be there when the first eager footstep was heard. The living room gleamed with tinsel and holly and glittering baubles. The tree towered green and silver and pink. Underneath the laden branches were the overflowing piles of gifts. "Nobody in the world has as many uncles and aunts as we have," Rex said ruefully. "Uncles and aunts are thoroughly legal. At least we can say that we didn't spoil the children by ourselves." Rex leaned down to examine the gifts the children had left. He picked up one package and peered at it. It was flat and very smooth. "A game?" He rattled it under his ear. Jennie came close to look. "It's from Sabra to us. It must be a game, but such a flat game."' She took it away from him and then smoothed the paper wrapping. "T think I'll open it." He looked at her reprovingly. "Before any of the rest of them get here?" "Yes." She was shaking with a sudden knowledge. She tore it open. It was a handmade book, cardboard covers holding securely the neatly typed contents. The title of the book was, "Poems for My Father and Mother," by Sabra Starr. Jennie and Rex looked long at each other until the mist of their tears obscured their sight. "It was for us... The secret.. " said Rex, "that was why she didn't tell us. -- or show us." Jennie said, "I fee] Sick.., Suppose we had insisted she show ms...." WHEAT FOR THE WISE He took the book from her and opened the cover. My father comes in from the evening With love in his arms like a basket... In it we are gathered like apples, I and my brothers. My father has stars on his forehead, But he does not know this.. He has singing inside him, But he does not know the words. Jennie wept, great bouncing tears. Rex stood grimly in silence for a long time. Then he said gruffly, "You can ask Brigham Young to dinner any time." They were still laughing when the children began their Christmas descent. (To be continued) MEMORIES IN MAY Annie Atkin Tanner | never feel a May breeze touch my face But | see apple blossoms Pink and fragrant, Leaning on a brown and aging fence. In memory | see a pear tree standing With all its Pristine whiteness Veiled in moonlight, And on its topmost branch a mocking bird Singing joyously, As if the whole world heard -his song. I never listen to a spring wind Shake the branches b But | see a lilac bush y my window, With heart-shaped leaves And purple Sprays of blossoms, Drooping in the evening rain. Then all the years between are gone And | am young and home again. 373 374 that of service — is exemplified the callings of stake and ward Relief The stake Magazine representa- @ The spirit of Relief Society the faithful performance o Society magazine representatives. Tives give guidance, direction, and stimulation. The ward Magazine representative may walk through rain, she may carefully pick her way on icy paths, she may return a second and third time to procure a subscription. The service she renders, however, is not confined to one time, twice, or to three times. The service extends itself over a twelve-month period and beyond. The joy and inspiration which a Magazine representative brings are expressed by the following: The Magazine has been a great comfort to me. It also helped me in preparing talks for Church. The Magazines are a constant source of inspiration to us in rearing our son and building our family relationships. No college student should be without the Magazine. I wish to express my gratitude for the support my family receives from the Relief Society Magazine. It has helped to build faith within each family member, five girls and a boy, and the father and mother. It has also enriched their literary world. I love the warmth and friendship the Magazine ai to me, and the chance to visit with my sisters around the world. The fresh ideas it has on homemaking and caring for my family are much appreciated, but I value most the spiritual growth the Magazine gives me. Multiply benefits such as these over two hundred thousand ounselor Marianne C. Sharp times, and one begins to realize the influence that the calling of a gazine representative carries. The General Board extends to every devoted, faithful Magazine representative its heartfelt thanks and appreciation. The value of The Relief Society Magazine to the Relief Society itself and its members is incalculable. The General Board also thanks stake and ward presidencies for the support they give to their Magazine representatives. Sometimes the difference between one stake having over 100% subscriptions and another under 75% is largely dependent upon the attitude of the respective presidencies. A stake which takes for granted that each ward will be over 100% in subscriptions establishes a warm entum, and carries along any newcomers in the confident assurance of success. There were 353 stakes on the Honor Roll and 164 stakes had 100%. There were 19 missions on the Honor Roll and 81 mission districts. For the nineteenth year, South Los Angeles Stake led the Church with 217%, one per cent higher than last year. The North Central States Mission led the missions with 119%. The number of subscriptions has increased by 9,344 over 1964, from 231,933 to 241,277. The General Board extends heartfelt gratitude to everyone who had a part in this excellent increase. 375 Honors for Highest Ratings Magazine Representative — Dona Osborn 217 South Los Angeles Dona Osborn 166 Huntington Park Mary L. Hebner 136 Phoenix West Dianne D. Johns 127. ~Florida Vera Williams 126 San Diego East Annie C. Tenney 124 Burley RuthS. Lyons 123. Las Vegas Fannie H. Bloxham Mission Magazine Representative — Margaret Abbott MISSIONS ACHIEVING TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES — 119 North Central States - Ma t Abbott MISSION DISTRICT South Dakota District, North Central States Mission — 184% 114 C imees epee B. Eae " 112 California. Ruth Jensen 105 Canadian Elva M. Adamson 105 Western States Carroll Thorpe 99 __— Eastern Atlantic States Helen Hatch Lake District, North Central States Mission 94 Texas Willetta E. Mansell Magazine Representative — Ina Kuhnley 92 Western Canadian Leah Collett MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 WARD South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 347% Magazine Representative — Marcella Carruth MISSION North Central States Mission — 119% Magazine Representative — Nora Johnson 133 «Glendale | Edythe a iZe (Savi tose West bet ee 121 Long Beach — Erma Halls 112 Alaskan-Canadian Leola G. Durrant 376 TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1546 1405 1194 1144 1086 *% Ammon................ Zola Ricks South Los Angeles Glendale Mesa Huntington Park Twin Falls 1085¥% 1075 10684 1034% 1022 Bonneville 1266 Rigby 1076 Ensign 872 Nampa 792 San Diego 749 East Central States New England Eastern Atlantic States Northwestern States North Central States STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER % Bannock................ Clara C. Christensen * Bonneville.......,.... Grace B. Larsen *® Boston... Shirley J. Blomberg *® Burley... Ruth S. Lyons *& Canoga Park.......... Jeanine D. Hansen * East Sharon.......... Lucile M. Weenig ® Ensign... Pearl L. Whitney * Fullerton............... Betty Jordan %* Huntington Park... Mary L. Hebner * Kansas City.......... Venna T. Witbeck *® Las Vegas............. Fannie H. Bloxham * Las Vegas East...... Ruth Shumway * Long Beach........... Erma Halls Maude Y. Jensen * Malad Ce ers ® Millcreek............... Martha J. H. Matern KK KKK HK HK KKK Moapa................... Frances J. Bohler Monument Park.... Ruth B. Parkinson Mount Olympus..... Shelley H. Hodson Mount Rubidoux.... Mary U. Tiffany Napa... LaVaun L. Allen North Davis........... Helen W. Barber Oakland-Berkeley.. LaVon B. Johnson Oquirrh.........0..00... Evelyn Wadsworth Palomar................ Amaretta H. Graves Parleys.........0..00... Lucille Taylor Phoenix North....... Pearl T. Jacobson * Phoenix West........ Dianne E. Johns *® Pocatello... Alice Brandt *%& Pomona:.....0.0......, Nora Perdue W Rigby. Ora Stallings * Sharon * St. Joseph %* San Diego East * San Diego South * San Fernando * Scottsdale w% Sevier... * South Bear River * South Cottonwood... Anna V. L. Lindman 659 634 629 628 621 TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS Northern States Canadian Florida Southern States Alaskan-Canadian Ruth Marshall Annie C. Tenney Ethel M. Burningham Noriene W. Kerr Anna Lee N. Gooch Manetta Hansen Arvilla J. Bradshaw Meda P. Hupp ¥*& South Idaho Falls.... Alice Moss *® Riverdale............... Aneta H. Olson * South Los Angeles... Dona Osborn * South Sait Lake Wo Wah... Eae Hanna Dietrich Faye Christensen Lou Jean Allred MAY 1966 377 217 166 136 133 128 127 126 124 123 121 121 121 121 120 119 119 119 119 119 119 118 South Los Angeles Huntington Park Phoenix West Glendale San Jose West Florida San Diego East Burley Las Vegas Long Beach East Los Angeles Norwalk Las Vegas East Rexburg Rigby Boston Wichita Mojave Cumorah Kansas City Chicago 118 118 117 117 116 116 116 116 116 ils 115 115 115 114 114 114 114 113 113 113 113 Honor Roll Stakes by Percentages 1965 Santa Rosa North Boise Oakland-Berkeley Palomar San Diego Phoenix North Moapa St. Joseph South Idaho Falis Ammon Pocatello Las Vegas North Nyssa Mt. Rubidoux Cheyenne Modesto San Jose Zion Park Bonneville Fullerton Ensign 112 112 112 111 111 111 111 111 111 110 110 110 110 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 109 Maricopa Whittier Monument Park Oquirrh East Pomona Twin Falls Great Falls Holladay Sydney North Seattle San Diego South San Joaquin Canoga Park Philadelphia Santa Monica Liberty Woodruff Minidoka Napa North Tooele San Fernando 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 Southern Arizona Wells Snowflake Phoenix Inglewood Alaska East Idaho Falls Mount Olympus Garden Grove South Bear River Idaho Falls Scottsdale Potomac American Falls Granite West Boise North Box Elder Anaheim East Mesa Grant New Jersey 107 107 107 107 107 107 107 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 106 Grand Junction Malad Bannock Concord East Long Beach Klamath Shelley Brigham City Los Angeles Utah Alameda Lost River Mesa Big Horn Monterey Bay Millcreek Parleys South Salt Lake Mount Graham Palmyra Boise MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 xX 378 106 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 105 104 104 104 104 104 104 104 Lake View East Sharon Sharon West Utah Bear River Grand Coulee Nampa North Columbia River Oquirrh Tucson Milwaukee Reno Taylor Torrance Franklin Kolob North Pocateilo Sevier Toronto Yuma Auckland Mount Logan Portland Casper Monument Park West Box Elder North Davis Taber Mount Ogden Sandy West Covina Denver Granite Park - Murray San Mateo Uvada North Rexburg Springville Pasadena Panguitch Reno North Oneida El Paso Santa Maria Uintah Yellowstone Olympus Roy » San Juan San Leandro New York Edmonton Puget Sound Cassia North Idaho Falls Riverton 90 90 Rose Park Valley View Washington Farr West Tooele Millard Beaver East Ogden Craig West Jordan Butte Covina Logan Roosevelt American River Young Deseret Raft River Denver West South Davis Walnut Creek Riverside Moroni South Blackfoot - Hayward Montpelier American Fork Reseda 87 87 87 87 87 87 87 86 86 86 86 86 86 86 86 86 85 85 85 85 85 85 85 OO Oh ® Temple View Bear Lake Willamette Butler Lyman Salem San Luis Wasatch Norfolk Salt Lake 'Weiser Brisbane Hillside Kanab Redwood Alberta Tempe Columbus Cottonwood Smithfield Mesa South Alpine Teton Morgan Summit Hattiesburg Orem West Orlando 80 80 80 80 80 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 79 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 78 77 77 77 77 77 76 South Sevier Richland Medford Atlanta Wind River Benson Houston Kaysville Layton Yakima Cincinnati Davis Grantsville Fort Wayne Bountiful North Minnesota Gunnison Portland West Salmon River Clearfield South Ogden Greensboro Washington Terrace Cleveland Glasgow Lake Mead Shreveport Corpus Christi MAY 1966 —————eEVV—— 103 U nion Highland St. Louis Granger Wilford Provo West Sharon West Pocatello East Rigby St. George Riverdale South Cottonwood Taylorsville West Cedar Macon Calgary East Phoenix San Francisco Star Valley Santa Ana Mount Jordan Burbank Cannon Idaho South Summit South Box Elder East Jordan Ashley Blackfoot Timpanogos Sacramento Emigration Portneuf Santa Barbara St. George East Spanish Fork Humboldt Sugar House Weber Heights Nebo Park San Bernardino St. Johns Nevada Pikes Peak Ogden Bountiful East Denver South North Jordan Seattle East Gridley Columbia River Kearns North Virginia Dallas Murray South Seattle Tacoma Chicago South North Weber Palo Alto Missoula Gooding Canyon Rim East Provo Winder North Carbon North Sacramento Bakersfield East Cache © Billings Detroit East Millcreek Granger North Redondo Cache Duchesne Oklahoma Bountiful Tulsa Pioneer Spokane University West Hyrum Lansing Cedar West Weber SSSSSS SSH mm" oO oO Santaquin-Tintic Fresno East Raleigh Fresno Parowan Lehi Lethbridge Memphis Bountiful South Corvallis North Sevier Orem East Pocatello Albuquerque London San Luis Obispo Cascade Carbon North Carolina Hunter Lorin Farr North Sanpete Redding Wayne Ben Lomond South Sanpete New Orleans Coeur d'Alene Midvale Taylorsville Garfield South Carolina Vancouver Jackson Ben Lomond South Juarez Kearns Emery Sandy East Blaine INinois Melbourne Beaumont Flagstaff Winter Quarters Hamilton Lewiston Tampa Manchester Indianapolis Leicester Miami San Antonio South Carolina Leeds Pearl Harbor Oahu Wellington Hawkes Bay Sunderland MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 Relief Society Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Anaheim Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn Billings Blackfoot Boise Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Enroll. Ment 494 297 812 670 723 417 663 923 568 530 605 312 464 648 356 518 537 558 817 626 673 885 368 735 602 958 320 773 481 756 792 No. 525 321 695 552 613 448 596 847 653 568 607 248 481 574 381 449% 565 517 659 466% 534 938 325 737 635 1085% 381 678 455% 592 658 Stakes on Honor Roil — 1965 Subscriptions Pet. 106 108 86 82 85 107 90 92 115 107 100 80 104 89 107 87 105 93 81 75 79 106 88 100 106 113 119 88 95 78 83 Magazine Representative Rosalie N. Taylor Miriam D. Johnson Viola B. Wynder Joan Cornwall Behunin Eloise C. Ferguson Erminnie Johnson Mayme J. Baker Norma R. Pezely Zola Ricks Atlas Coker Alice T. Wall Algerene D. Sauls Catherine M. Douglas Ruby Woolsey Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Lottie R. Potter Daisy Gillins Marelda H. Cutler Martha S. Dillon Ariene A. Kupfer Jennette F. Buhler Maud J. DeVore Janet C. Wray Genevieve Creswell Grace B. Larsen Shirley J. Blomberg Beula Nelson Janice G. Stewart Columbia L. Argyle Colleen C. Poulsen Relief Society Davis Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Fails East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Florida Fort Wayne Franklin Fresno Fresno East Fullerton Enroll. Ment 760 450 488 569 735 582 410 1072 614 535 743 811 642 680 829 628 645 692 '661 843 442 512 625 945 756 674 287 808 489 443 429 Subscriptions No. 600 452 461 518. 672 514 360 949 663 537 793 979 688 600 767 638 533 615 678 888% 433 506 608 1068% 702 857 225 841 410 372 486 Pet. 79 100 95 91 91 88 88 89 108 100 107 121 107 88 93 102 83 89 103 105 98 99 97 113 93 127 78 104 84 84 113 Magazine Representative MAY 1966 Wilma G. Miller Katherina Belmain Margaret Smith Pricilla Anderson Erma E. Cropper Marlene Klaphaak Thelda M. Halstead Venice S. Hill Emma S. Jensen LaVenna S. Clark Marian Y. Morgan Fairie Session Elva M. Brown Doris N. Barney Katherine W. Eckenbrecht Geneva Cluff Jerri Sanders Eva J. Slick Norma Rounds Lucile M. Weenig Verna E. Law Maud T. Bentley Reva B. Holt Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Vera Williams Alice M. Green Edna P. Lemmon Sarah Jean Stokes Ruth Johnson Betty Jordan 381 Box Elder Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Cincinnati Clearfield Cleveland Coeur d'Alene Columbia River Columbus Concord Corpus Christi Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Craig Cumorah Dallas 483 500 104 Cleo N. Dixon 531 273 697 784 711 599 719 628 586 458 964 784 371 250 422 449 560 391 373 429 431 742 386 323 623 382 516 144 266 550 668 264 337 690 565 234 704 973 616% 551 631 639 592 502 857 641% 304 259 412 458 488 447 441 385 341 578 298 260 584 325 552 110 221 468 614 244 400 645 106 86 101 124 87 92 88 102 101 110 89 82 82 104 98 102 87 114 118 90 79 78 77 81 94 85 107 76 83 85 92 92 119 94 Hilda R. Forrest Elsie E. Orth June A. Gardner Ruth S. Lyons Gladys R. Loveless Afton Lassen Whiteworth Norma J. Thompson Lenore Heninger Elsie Duehlmeier Jeanine D. Hansen Ruth Rushforth Gertrude M. McCourt Mabel M. Collins Donna R. Thatcher Emma C. Payne Lottie J. Bladen Irene L. Sevy Hazel Parker Vilda Page Doris H. Grott Barbara V. English Thelma Haslam Nelda M. Center Dorothy L. Bennett Agnes G. Hill Diane S. Sexton M. Nadine Smith Lorene Ricker Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Colleen C. Boman Dawna Wardell Margaret G. Stoner Dorothy Fobes Garden Grove Garfield Glasgow Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville ' Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Gunnison Hattiesburg Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Houston Humboldt Hunter Huntington Park Hyrum Idaho idaho Falls Inglewood Jackson Juab Kanab Kansas City Kaysville Kearns North 604 651 108 303 321 76 122 94 77 1056 1405 133 687 614% 89 705 741 105 506 542 #107 478 493 103 606 534% 88 646 694 #107 697 694 100 900 965 #107 628 494 79 381 422 #111 356 276 78 853 803 94 441 345 78 230 194 84 637 574 90 | 623 643 103 1119 959 86 914 1013 111 458 363 79 277 = 268 97 475 385 81 688 1144 166 814 710% £87 486 491 101 606 652 108 668° 723 108 184 §=6138 75 545 564% 104 530 454 86 585 693 119 735 583 79 592 554% 94 Ruth W. Hoffman Melba Gates Jane McGibbons Edythe M. Fairbanks Hazel Gines Margie Barrus Josephine Prinster Viola G. Johnson Ella H. Larson Jane Henry Lythia Street Claudine J. Despain Abbie K. Paskett Glenna MacDonald Ruth Alice Brewer Vera Allred Katie P. Larson Bobbye Anderson Patricia A. Stowell Auline N. Peterson Ruby S. Ockey Artine F. Dean Eileen M. Riedland Aliene N. Bloxham Norma H. Scott Mary L. Hebner Elsie B. Poppleton Elizabeth L. Hogan Verna Hoopes Edith Peru Mamie Cronin Selma Tranter Vauna L. Covington Venna T. Witbeck Adelia H. Rushforth LaVeigh T. Atwood MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 Relief Society Klamath Falls Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas East Las Vegas North Layton Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan London Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Macon Malad Maricopa Medford Memphis Mesa Mesa South Midvale Millard Millcreek Milwaukee Minidoka Enrollment 245 673 635 477 432 620 418 819 1072 740 666 766 630 188 668 859 548 320 563 265 590 752 492 256 1123 629 946 635 592 367 754 Stakes on Honor Roil Subscriptions No. 261 700 488 503 377 761 503% 938 850 619 557 838 579 155 807 696 583 340 488 270 632 845 392 213 1194 534 761 589 627 383 823 Pet. 107 104 77 106 87 123 121 115 79 Magazine Representative Beverly Ellis Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter lsora Almstead A. Lucille Ranney Fannie H. Bloxham Ruth Shumway Vaun S. Klingonsmith Bernice S. Earl Rosa Ashton Beulah Manser Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Bernston Cissie Simmonds Erma Halls Marva N. Ralph Isabel B. Meilstrup Ethel L. Summers Vera Hutchison Beeda R. Ward Maude Y. Jensen Olive Wallace Marion Sander Reta Berry Julia Kerby Rae Lemmon Martha L. Andersen Leah D. Wood Martha J. H. Matern Carol Ann Jack Lova Taylor Relief Society North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Oquirrh East Orem Orem West Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North — 1865 Enrollment 324 699 688 707 531 471 486 669 656 517 770 779 401 599 651 488 278 816 741 402 731 728 401 485 774 560 402 897 396 674 536 Subscriptions No. 337 698 610 573 584% 391 530 600 791% 600 901 739 352 590 644 512 309% 675% 625 339 773 653 470% 481 744 593 337 891% 434 Pet. 104 100 89 81 110 83 109 90 121 115 117 95 Magazine Representative Sara Fisher Myrtle B. Park Zelda B. Winkler Ruby T. Hansen Lillian Bulman Clarissa J. Sorensen Betty S. Johnson Marvel W. Barrow Lois Sunderberg Fay S. Munn LaVon Johnson Edna H. Roghaar Grace G. Cullimore Dorothy P. Swafford Verneta H. Larson Evelyn Wadsworth Alice Haslam Florence B. Gray Grace T. Lowry Burnice Munns Eleanor D. Olsen Elaine H. Tuttle Amaretta H. Graves Ola W. Fox Pearl E. Rohde Lucille Taylor Dott D. Smith Rose N. Simper Pauline G. Bishop Francelle Decker Pearl T. Jacobson MAY 1966 Minnesota Missoula Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Modesto Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Moroni Mount Graham Mount Jordan Mount Logan Mount Ogden Mount Olympus Mount Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York Norfolk North Boise North Box Elder North Carbon North Carolina North Columbia River North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan 498 390 78 Jeanette Jesse 583 335 683 283 449 856 602 719 396 377 776 602 843 728 529 730 673 1022 985 570 694 442 474 408 618 335 507 481 582 421 345 863 826 631 522 372 813 300 512 770 675 745 335 _ 341 820 609% 874 730 571 835 672 955 1034% 622 667 422 508 329 606 289 596 516 516 343 362 892% 805 595 90 111 119 106 114 90 112 104 85 91 106 101 104 100 108 114 100 93 105 109 96 96 107 81 98 86 118 107 89 82 105 103 98 94 Betty Jean Stahl Frances J. Bohler Wilda N. Andrejcik Lilly B. Lovejoy Virginia Ballard Jean C. Keetch Ruth B. Parkinson Donna A. Anderson Barbara Thurston Betty A. Cook Flora John Ruth Andrus Elaine Passey Louise Woodland Shelley H. Hodson Mary U. Tiffany Liecel Barthel Lois Madsen Louise S. Tobler LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch j Lu Atkin ' Sharon C. Johnson Cleora Williams Margaret Bruns Lorna H. McPherson Anna T. Scott Sue F. Kapp Lue Twiddell Katherine L. Bailey Sarah M. Williams Helen W. Barber Nellie C. Bate Virginia B. Latimer Phoenix West Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Pomona Portland Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem AIR 652136 440 420 628 549% 541 621 573 638 668 693 538 420% 548 533 612 658 560 577 599 587 202 184 244 205 405 328 627 563 273 234 569 594 463 459 754 678 740 885 822 657 900 1075 506 518 659 697 507 494% 570 524 906 344 668 657 782 762 535. 548 600 582 542 518 615 713 376 388 353 306 96 88 115 111 104 78 97 108 103 98 91 84 81 88 86 104 99 90 120 | 80 | 119 102 Sl 98 92 93 98 97 102 97 96 116 103 87 Dianne E. Johns Maxine Healey Rura J. Woodall Alice Brandt Nora Perdue Alice D. Shepard Arilie Reznick Lottie M. Dewey Emilie M. Packer Deseret Bullock Selena Fern Burbidge Beth K. Thompson Myrtle M. Dixon Maxine Hansen Darlene J. Johnson Minnie W. Herrin Martha Hendrix Armeda S. Carlsen Helen T. Nichalls Mary Welker Beulah M. Page Carey Ora Stallings Aneta H. Olson lona N. Whitehead Blanche B. Densley Leora Zupko Beverly L. Lundstrom Dorothy F. Oleson Irene J. Koplin Sylva Schow Graf Ruby Iverson Mae H. Wiltbank Ruth Marshall Margaretha Evans Mary B. Wall MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 384 Relief Society Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South Sandy San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Smithfield Enrollment 209 757 946 878 430 510 638 750 434 412 500 571 766 486 585 227 Stakes on Honor Subscriptions No. 163 651% 907 1022 542 561 640 818 441 452 568 728 753 477 507 187 690 616 582 241 890% 850 352 495 524 Pet. 78 86 96 116 126 110 100 109 102 110 114 128 98 Magazine Representative Sarah Heist Hudlow Frances L. Kooyman Carol L. Barrett Kay Calder Annie C. Tenney Ethel M. Burningham Louise R. Neff Noriene W. Carr Rita M. Heaton Mildred £. White Cleone H. Parker Lettie G. Stephens Lea Hurst Elfonda Barker Viola Clarke Kathleen S. Howard Ruby Elwood Abigail S. Millett Cecile H. Richards Edith G. Swonger Helen G. Hanson Grace M. Gosling Ella H. Sandstrom Anna Lee N. Gooch Dorothy C. Newman Erma Kenyon Manetta Hansen Arvilla J. Bradshaw June L. Walton Bertie F. Sentilles Ruby J. Thornley Relief Society Sydney Taber Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Taylorsville West Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Torrance Toronto Tucson Tulsa - Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weber State College Enrollment 418 425 524 701 490 297 671 554 1014 569 606 572 651 302 868 510 630 769 622 320 747 357 348 498 815 681 461 359 720 693 10 Subscriptions No. 463 439 489 732 394 304 583 525 989 528% 632 595 681 265 1086 503 650% 673 661% 320 596 268 326 451% 704 634 357 Pet. 111 103 93 104 80 102 87 95 98 93 104 104 105 88 111 99 103 88 106 100 93 75 94 91 86 93 77 81 87 97 80 Magazine Representative Catherine Jean Jeffree Betty M. Anderson Ruth E. Fowler Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Jones Marjorie E. Coats Gloria O. Torres Ruby Hogan Velma Gillman Alice Walton Ivy R. Higdon Ruth Florence Rennie Myrna J. Goodman Virginia R. Jacobson La Vella Pace Erma B. Taylor MarJean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Faye Christensen Mae Hall Grace R. Engh Edna M. Mitchell Ethel T. Sweet Beverly Tichenor Emily Conrad Rubye D. Mikesell Edna B. Goodliffe Vonda Williams Gonda DeBoer Alma M. Peterson Eunice Sagendors MAY 1966 385 Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina West South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Relief Society Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian Central States Cumorah East Central States Eastern Atlantic States Florida Gulf States 855 931% 109 Lucilia S. Peterson 745 838 466 251 593 776 561 714 646 486 843 464 438 428 746 569 783 717 932 405 Enroltment 555 344 605 598 409 1487 880 775 256 803 758 469 191 607 704% 648 1546 503 514 680 371 442 467 723 498 779 728 900% 342 108 Subscriptions No. 621 384 634 564 467 1266 872 629 226 Pct. 112 112 105 94 114 85 99 81 88 Meda P. Hupp Agnes D. Cox Nila J. Stucki Vivian Black Anna V. L. Lindman Naomi. B. Stanbridge Alice Moss Dona Osborn Stella Beutler Hannah Dietrich Iris D. Anderson Betty G. Hansen Martha A. Lambert Maud Post Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Gwen A. Tippetts Leta Coffman Nellie J. Ehlers Clara C. Copley Magazine Representative Leola G. Durant Ruth Jensen Elva M. Adamson Nancy Jones. Lorraine B. Carlson Nyla H. Morgan Helen Hatch Moneta Oates Beatrice D. Pinkston Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wichita Wilford Willamette Wind River Winder Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Relief Society New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States Southern Australian Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States 7 906 468 781 714 613 581 775 573 235 698 589 219 669 724 328 904 682 373 410 Enrollment 1207 632 719 863 667 291 568 307 419 578 988% 502% 781% 660 630 598 817 643 280 719% 511 174 594 785 260 891 626 387 465 Subscriptions No. 1076 749 659 792 579 272 513 282 439 Pct. 89 119 92 92 87 94 90 92 105 Roma L. Alder Gertrude S. Fullmer Clea R. Nelson Lucille C. Hales Virginia B. Anderson Alta K. Holmes Ramona A. Davis Beth W. Baker Beulah Mickel M. Marcella Meador LouJean Allred Myrtle Powell Myrl Bray Ruth L. Perkins Gladys Groll LaVern G. Jackson Leola Beddes Faye J. Glach Effie Nowland Isabel DeMille Magazine Representative Naomi B. Cranney Margaret Abbott Ira Mae C. Palmer Eva Mertlick Florence M. Carthew Willetta E. Mansell Lois Montayue Leah Collett Carrell N. Thorpe _ MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 Time of Farewell Leora Larsen Brenda Jean wasn't even a year old when her mother left her with me for two weeks. For a long time afterward, when she came with her parents to visit me, and it was time to go, her tears were copious. She refused to kiss me goodbye because she hated to go. Then, tonight I saw her waving and smiling, as their car drove away. Such a smile! Almost as if she knew her return would be soon and home was a fine place to be going. Little girl, tonight you taught me something. Life is like this. We approach it with quiet fear, Learn that it is wondrous good and, when all its Splendor is yet warm, we must learn to smile and Wave goodbye. If our cry is loud, if fear for The end makes us frantic, we must still learn to Smile and wave goodbye. JS BLOSSOMTIME Eva Willes Wangsgaard a Along the highway, mile on mile of these Rich hanging gardens flaunt their coral bloom; Pink clouds of fragrance over russet trees, Blue skies for contrast, all the hills for room. Once these were desert hills where rabbitbrush And greasewood held their stubborn, bitter way, In flowering gold or gray-green in the hush ' Of snow's receding from the lengthening day. 4 'Great was the faith of men who set trees here, Channeled the life-rich silver of the streams, Visioned a harvest in some future year, Joyed in the challenge to their strength and dreams. How beautiful upon the hills are shown Their footprints cast in petal, fruit, and stone. Lin Re \ FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Pocatello Stake (Idaho), Nineteenth Ward Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row: At the left, Judy Bennett, accompanist; fourth from the left, Marie Armitage, President, Pocatello Nineteenth Ward Relief Society; at the right, Hazel Christiansen, chorister. Second row: Fourth from the left, Joyce Hanks, social science class leader; sixth from the left, Alice Ingebretsen, work meeting leader; at the right, Eleda Stacy, Work Counselor. Third row: At the left, Irene Yarger, Secretary-Treasurer, Pocatello Nineteenth Ward Relief Society; Erma Thornock, Education Counselor; fifth from the left, Hazel Bolingbroke, visiting teacher message leader; at the right, Marilyn Armstrong, theology class leader. Emily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Pocatello Nineteenth Ward have been most outstanding in their chorus activities. They have an enrollment of eighty-three. Recently, ' when I attended the literature meeting, there were fifty-three sisters in attendance. They have two nurseries, with fifteen or more in each section. The Singing Mothers practice each Thursday from nine to ten in the morning, at which time Relief Society meetings start. They sing for sacrament meetings and special programs and present concerts regularly for the two rest homes in Pocatello. They have also presented music for meetings in other wards, and for funerals. They also sing each year for the stake preparation meeting. All the bers of the presidency are Singing Mothers, as are most of the class eaders." 387 MAY 1966 San Diego East Stake (California) Magazine Representatives Honored at a Luncheon February 4, 1966 Left to right: Annie Tenney, stake Magazine representative; Helen Stevens, Lakeside Ward; Wilda Fowles, LaMesa Ward; Ida Brown, LaMesa Second Ward; Hannah Brown, El Cajon Third Ward; Clara Mosteller, El Cajon Second Ward; Bettey Miller, called as stake Magazine representative to replace Sister Tenney. Lydia Wilkensen, El Cajon Ward, was not present at the time the picture was taken. Reha Gale, President, San Diego East Stake Relief Society, reports: "The occasion was a luncheon honoring the ward Magazine representatives, following the leadership meeting. The theme of the luncheon was 'The Magazine—Heart of Relief Society.' The tables were beautifully decorated with red hearts and roses, with the Magazine as center of each heart. "A lovely afternoon was spent with the stake board, the ward presidents, and ward Magazine representives. Each of the Magazine representatives was presented with a lovely handmade handkerchief for selling over 100 per cent subscriptions in each ward. Each sister accepted the challenge to place "The Heart of Relief Society' in each home." South Carolina Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert December 4, 1965 Elizabeth M. Perry, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society, reports: "Approximately 100 singers participated in this concert. Our chapel was beautifully decorated with Christmas flowers. The sisters made a lovely picture with their white blouses, black skirts, and red Christmas corsages. This was our first Singing Mothers concert, with twelve out of fourteen wards and branches participating. Our sisters traveled many miles and spent many hours practicing. We were delighted with the response to this concert, and feel that it was well worth the effort. The officers of South Carolina Stake Relief Society are: President Elizabeth M. Perry, First Counselor Lottie Joyner, Second Counselor Vern Fagan, and Secretary-Treasurer Norma Grice." Giaitile Stake (California) Yuletide Festival December 17, 1965 Left to right, stake leaders: Edythe Fairbanks, Magazine representative, as "Mrs. Santa'; Florence Dalton, Work Counselor; Virgie Fischbeck, theology class leader. Edna A. Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our 'Mrs. Santa's Kitchen,' featuring 'The Best Cooks This Side of Heaven,' thrilled all those who attended the Glendale Stake Yuletide Festival. "Members and nonmembers were delighted with displays and demonstrations of Christmas decorations. An excellent original play 'Our Gift to God,' written by Education Counselor Leah Frandsen, with the theme of Family Night, climaxed a most outstanding evening. LaCanada Ward choir furnished beautiful Christmas music. "This most successful fund-raising event was made possible by the combined efforts of the members of the stake board, in addition to the sisters in the picture: Ruth Gough, Secretary-Treasurer; Nancy Scott, work meeting leader; Joyce Swainston, chorister; Ola Davis, organist; Jessie Schade, visiting teacher message leader; Jody Acton, social science class leader; and Barbara Moffat, literature class leader." 388 MAY 1966 North British Mission, Grimsby District Presidency Christmas Party November 27, 1965 Left to right: Elizabeth Hickman, President, Grimsby District Relief Society; Blanche E. Payne, Supervisor, North British Mission Relief Society; Patricia Rogers, First Counselor, Grimsby District Relief Society; Ann Eley, Secretary-Treasurer, North British Mission Relief Society; Stephanie Hill, District Secretary-Treasurer; Norma Sepp, Mission Assistant; Betty Browne, Second Counselor, Grimsby District Relief Society; Marjorie R. Jenner, Second Counselor, North British Mission Relief Society. Alice A. Hughes, President of the North British Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Grimsby District Relief Society Presidency held a Christmas party, to which all the sisters of the district, and their husbands, were invited. This was one of the first large social gatherings to be held in the beautiful new Scunthorpe chapel. Many investigators and inactive members participated. It was a spiritual and enjoyable evening. There were party games, old-time and modern dancing. After supper, each sister received a small gift presented by 'Father Christmas' from his sleigh. The evening's entertainment ended with three short plays presented by a local dramatic society." Central British Mission, Worcester District Relief Society Song Festival February 15, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right, beginning second from the left: Olive Corbin, Second Counselor; Audrey Wharrad, First Counselor; Gwendalyn Smart, chorister; Edna Byrne, President. Back row, standing, at the left: Gillian Brown-Lee, Secretary-Treasurer. Eileen Dunyon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society, reports: "All the sisters wore colorful 'old-time' costumes, as they presented a beautiful song festival with "Testimonies of Joy,' as the theme for the occasion. The composers and authors of Church music and words were brought back to life by the enactment of one outstanding feature taken from each individual life. At the close of the festival, two young flower girls handed a bouquet to the chorister, and a Victorian Posy to the pianist, and every sister in the hall was presented with a spray." Provo Stake (Utah) Magazine Representatives Honored at Leadership Meeting January 21, 1966 Front row, left to right: Deseret Bullock, stake Magazine representative; Kathrine Smith, Seventh Ward representative; Verena Decker, President, Seventh Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right, Magazine representatives: Bonnie Wright, Sixteenth Ward; Viola Henderson, Fifth Ward; Fanny Harrison, First Ward; Elsie Moffitt, Manavu Ward; Orrissia Liddiard, Tenth Ward. Jane M. Call, President, Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: '""The Provo Stake was organized in February 1938. Since that time the Provo Stake Relief Society has been on the Magazine Honor Roll every year except one. This year the stake Relief Society offered a lovely floral arrangement to the ward which could get the most new subscriptions to the Magazine, from October 1965 to January 1966. The floral arrangement was made at a leadership meeting in the work department and displayed for all the sisters to see. "On January 21, 1966, at leadership meeting, all of the Magazine representatives were honored for their outstanding work. Due to the drive, there was a total of 154 new subscriptions to the Magazine. The floral arrangement was presented to the Seventh Ward for having forty-three new subscriptions. Kathrine Smith, the Magazine representative for the Seventh Ward, was eighty years old in February 1966. She has recently learned how to knit, so that she will have something to do in her old age." 390 The Man on the Street Maria A. Zickbauer @The man stood on the street. Hour after hour, the people passed by going in different directions. The young with zest, and the old with care. Some aspired laboriously to the heights—others rushed along carefree. He spoke to each with outstretched hand, he displayed the precious gift to the quick glances of the people, to whom he offered the small valuable, with a smile on his face. Most of them had hardly time to glance at him or at his offer. All were very much in a hurry to arrive some place; many threw him halting and despondent looks. Every once in awhile one would come to stop; perhaps, only in order to recover his breath, and to risk a cautious glimpse. Several asked the price. One—where one could buy this wonderful work. It was a small watch, in extraordinarily fine setting. It appeared to be made from choice material. The answer was always the same: "It is a present for you— it cannot be bought. Take it and guard it carefully." Distrust was predominant. Yes, even malicious accusations. Evening came, and the man still had his gift—which no one was willing to accept. 392 | ' I was also on a street and very much like the others. I was in a hurry, _despondent and restless. Hunting for happiness; searching for peace. I was also accosted by a quiet voice and I glanced at the outstretched hand, but I was not conscious of the present. A friendly smile in the eyes appeared to pierce my searching heart. Where had I known this singular feeling. Where had I heard this voice before? "Purchase gold from me for nothing!" Perhaps I did not want to decline or offend that friendly smile, but before I knew what had transpired, the precious gift was in my hands. My fearful questions "Where and how can I hide it with care?" "Place it in thy heart." Then I was alone, but not really alone! Never again! Soon I was to experience the manner of the gold that I had obtained through obedience. It was and is a new light in my eyes, a sweet melody to _ my ear, knowledge and wisdom to my thoughts. Joy and peace to my heart; health to my body, the precious decoration to the children of God—the Good News. I recognized the giver—the Great Master and knew that he was the goal of my constant search and yearning. Praise be to his love! Thanks to the man on the street. TO MOTHER Leone O. Jacobs | love you, Mother dear, more than | have before, Now that | am older, more mature. | see your noble character in clearer light today, The more, sad truth, since you have slipped away. You taught me faith, and all my doubts erased, You taught me work, its dignity and grace. You taught me gratitude for common things, The satisfaction willing service brings. | understand you, Mother dear, more than | have before, Traveling the selfsame road as you in days of yore. | too my progeny have reared, | know the problems and the pitfalls that you feared. Thank you, dear God, for Mother, For all she represents, And would that | might be to mine Of equal consequence. 393 WORK MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Margaret P. Childs Chairman, Clothing and Textiles Department Brigham Young University CLOTHING CARE ADDS TO WEAR Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1966 Southern Hemisphere: January 1967 Objective: To show how to extend wear-life of clothing INTRODUCTION The sense of well-being and adequacy which homemakers enjoy when they can provide clean and appropriate clothing for each member of the family to wear in all of their various activities, is well worth striving for. Unfortunately, many of us never reach that goal. In the mistaken idea that more clothes are needed, we tend to acquire an ever-increasing wardrobe and, thereby, further complicate the problem. An oversupply of clothes takes a toll of time, money, and energy for handling, care, and storage out of all proportion to its usefulness. Wise choice of each wardrobe item, then, is the first step in clothing care. But for the purpose 394 by systematic, good care. Of this discussion, we are concerned with. The actual "care techniques" which extend the wear-life of clothing. The working tools of clothing care are a systematic routine, some good technical skills, and a basic understanding of the factors involved in clothing care. When the laundry or ironing piles up or clothes are not wearable because a seam has to be restitched or a strap mended, we might as well not own the clothes. They are only useful when they are in wearable condition. Mother should not try to do all the work herself and deprive the family of a chance to learn and to share the work. Children appreciate their possessions more —_ = when they are responsible for them. LAUNDERING The most effective laundry procedures, regardless of the kind of equipment used, will be based upon these factors: 1. Pre-spot bad soil and stains. 2. Sort clothes for color, soil, and fiber content. Wash dark and light colors separately. Do not wash badly soiled articles with lightly soiled ones. Never wash white synthetics with colored clothes. 3. Pre-soak soiled clothing in cool water for 10 to 15 minutes to loosen and float away some of the soil that hot water would set in the clothes. Some soap or detergent may be added to make the soak period more effective. A chlorine bleach, in measured amounts, will aid soil, stain and bacteria removal. Do not overbleach. 4, Wash in very hot (soft or conditioned) water to which a proper amount of soap or detergent has been added. Prolonged washing may damage fabric, and a too-short period of agitation will not remove all the soil. Too much or too little soap is equally ineffective. 5. Rinse thoroughly to remove all detergent, bleach, and remaining soil. Use fabric softeners only occasionally. Starch clothes that require body, or that will resist soiling better when they are smoother or stiffer. 6. Dry in sunlight or dry in tumble dryers to the just-dry state, as overdrying damages fabrics. Some colors, and all nylons, silks, and wools, are best dried out of sunlight which will deteriorate them. The _ brighteners used in many detergents on the market to brighten colors and whiten whites also deteriorate and become ineffective in sunlight. However, sunlight has a bleaching and sanitizing effect. Cottons smell fresher when sun-dried. Heat-sensitive fibers and wash-wear cottons are permanently wrinkled by high temperature and overdrying. Read labels on clothing for instructions on proper care. Freezing helps bleach cotton, but frozen fabrics are easily damaged by handling. Boiling also bleaches, but weakLESSON DEPARTMENT ens fabrics, and high temperatures speed the damage of bleaches and strong soaps. IRONING Good ironing requires: 1. Uniform dampening and ironing within twelve hours after dampening. Mildew forms quickly in warm temperatures and even when the odor and color can be removed, mildew damage is permanent. 2. Iron with temperature adjusted to the fabric and fabric finish. Scorch is permanent damage, even when the color is bleached away. 3. A well-padded, clean, smooth ironing surface on a board of comfortable height. Soiled ironing surfaces give up scorch and soil to damp clean fabrics. 4. Skill in the use of the iron. Ironing with fabric grain, and ironing the underside of thick areas first are helpful techniques. 5. Careful folding or hanging of ironed garments. PRESSING To press successfully: 1. Thoroughly brush away lint and dirt which damage color and _ fiber. 2. Choose the right press cloth— tissue paper for sheer fabrics, wool or canvas for woolens and worsteds. Always use the same side down. 3. Dampen uniformly with a sponge avoiding excess moisture. 4. Suit the iron temperature to the fabric. 5. Press, do not iron. Steam alone will relax most wrinkles which can then be brushed away or pressed with the hand. 6. Shape different areas with rolled towels, - press cushions, or _ sleeve boards. SPOTTING Some types of soil permanently bond to fabrics if not removed immediately. In general, wash fabrics can be treated by home methods, and dry-clean fabrics are best cleaned by professional cleaners, but there are exceptions. 395 MAY 1966 It is best not to try to remove anything from non-washable fabrics that will not come out with clear cool water. Clothes should be cleaned before becoming too badly soiled. Tell the cleaner what caused the spots and what you did, if anything, to remove them. For wash fabrics, pre-treat blood, egg, meat, catsup, ink, and similar stains with cool water. Rub detergent into soil caused by body oils, grass, tar, cosmetics, oil, greasy foods, and perspiration. Then rinse with clear water. Harden gum and candle wax with ice and pick off the fabric. Pour boiling water from a_height (about elbow height) through fruit juice stains. Grass and ballpoint pen ink can be removed by soaking in alcohol, but it may damage colors. A helpful bulletin for home use is the U. S. Department of Agriculture bulletin "Removing Spots and Stains from Fabrics." (Suggest your own national government sources.) STORAGE Seasonal clothes should be stored when not in use to protect from dust, mildew, strong light, and insects. Moth and carpet beetles feed on wool, silk, hair, and feathers. While cedar chests and moth balls help some, the best insurance is airtight storage of thoroughly cleaned and brushed garments. Silver fish eat rayons and other cellulose fibers. These insects breed in damp cracks and sometimes require fumigation to rid a home from their damage. Dust destroys colors and wears fibers. Store clothes where they cannot collect dust. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Techniques described herein could well be demonstrated, such as: Laundering helps, correct ironing procedures, pressing a man's or woman's suit, spotting techniques for various fabrics, or storage facilities. Some demonstrations of the care of the new "wash and wear" fabrics may also be helpful. FROM THE SEA TO THE SHELL Bernice Ames The two-minded sea Advances, retreats Breaks on shore to run whole again. Mollusks in the shifting green hammock Away in currents that fling them Against rock Opening a way for escape. Empty periwinkle and moon shell, Empty scallop and cowry Tumble in the lottery of water Rolled to the beach, Holding only an echo of life Given And taken By the sea. 396 Plan a Murdock Tour Now! The following personally-escorted, all-expense-paid tours all include the highest quality carriers and accommodations at surprisingly low cost: 1 L. D. S. Temples Tour 11 days Leaves April 18th (Oakland, L. A., St. George, Manti) 2 Hawaii Tour 12 days Leaves May 14th 3 European Highlights 21 days Leaves June 9th 4 Temples & Lake Louise 12 days (bus) Leaves July 11th (Cardston, Idaho, Logan) 5 Scandinavian Vikings Tour 21 days Leaves July 12th 7 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 8 days (air) Leaves July 26th 10 Hawaii Tour 10 days Leaves September 10th SCOHSSHSHSSSSHSSHSSSSSHSSSSHSSSHSSHSSHSSHSSHHSHSHHHORSSEHSESCHESSEEOE Murdock Travel Inc., 14 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send information on tour no.: MURDOCK TRAVEL R. S. May '66 SSCSCHSSHSSSHSHSHSSSSHSHSHSSSSSESESSSHSSHHESSEHSSHEHSHHOHSEHHSHOSOSE SEASONAL Gayla Ann Larsen Spring is your smile, Summer, your kiss, Autumn, your silence; Winter is parting like this. SISTER-TALK Rowena Jensen Bills The little things we talk about— Bits of this and that, How charming was the poem she read And color of her hat, The dinner menu, the baby's teeth, And did the headache dast? Superficial gaieties g Of future and of past.. Yet deep affection, trusting love, In every carefree phrase. Sister-talk, friendship-talk, Fulfillment of joyous days. 397 6 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 8 Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour 9 Yellowstone, Passion Play Mt. Rushmore 8 days 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 15th 15 days (bus and air) Leaves July 29th Leaves August 13th SUNLIT CANYON Ethel Jacobson Dazzle lies On leaf and stream— A dancing brilliance, A quicksilver gleam. Wherever the live oak Canopy parts, The sun's massed archers Loose their darts To splinter on eddy, Stone, and stem, Making a shattered Mirror of them, Reflecting each other Diamond-bright, A fluid, Shimmering bedight Landscape less of land Than light. WORDS Armoral Kent Words are such hasty things, Yet they may mean All that can ever be, All that has been. Words are such little things, Yet they may make Destinies totter, Centuries shake. Words are so uniform, Yet they may be Anything, everything, To you and me. COOK ELECT RIC 4e9 Pots and pans stay "'white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Cardston and Idaho Falls June 17, 1966 Time for those who wish to go to temples Northwest Tour June 25 — July 2 Hill Cumorah Tours July 1966 Summer Paradise Hawaiian Tour July 23 Black Hills Passion Play Tour August 21 New England—Canadian Fall Tour September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phenes: 363-5229 — 359-8051 398 Tour Europe first class for less than °17 a day! A 22-day "Priceless" escorted tour of 11 countries costs as little as $368. Includes first-class hotels, most meals, air-conditioned motor coaches, sightseeing. Gentlemen: Murdock Travel, Inc. 14 South Main St. / Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 328-3161 $17-a-day tour of Europe. Please send me full particulars on your MURDOCK ja Address. TRAVEL City __. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone l and 2..... 55 Zone 6.......... 90 one 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8..........1.20 Zone 5.......... 80 Lo & DESERET FREWS PRESS weeoeeeooneeeseceseesreveds State Zip R. S. May '66°* HAWAII April 21, 1966 Ship one way April 27, 1966 Flying both ways HAWAII June 12, 1966 Flying both ways CANADIAN AND NEW ENGLAND STATES TOUR September —= ALASKA PAGEANT TOURS Ask us about our European Tours Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 328-8981 - 467-5763 - 485-2444 399 102 Mrs. Mary Adelia Felt Young Salt Lake City, Utah 96 Mrs. Mary Miller Chapman San Francisco, California Mrs. Ida Reynolds McEldowney Norwalk, California 95 Mrs. Julia Angell Knudsen Provo, Utah Mrs. Florence Oyler Blackburn Loa, Utah Mrs. Annie Smith Lamb St. Hubert Quebec, Canada Mrs. Clara Eddy Martin Menan, Idaho Mrs. Lucy Sharp Parker Richards Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Henrietta Watson Barben Delta, Utah Mrs. Emma Butler Maxfield Bakersfield, California Mrs. Lois Ann Stevens Tanner Brady Salt Lake City, Utah 93 Mrs. Minnie @. Banta Sacramento, California Mrs. Cervilla Winget Magleby Monroe, Utah 9? Mrs. Harriet Hands Dixon San Luis Obispo, California Mrs. Emma Clark Judd Magrath Alberta, Canada Mrs. Elizabeth Barfuss Christensen Logan, Utah Mrs. Susie Knapp Campbell St. George, Utah Mrs. Mary Berg Beckstead Logan, Utah Mrs. Emma Metcalf Brown Springville, Utah Mrs Elizabeth Scott Lyman Parowan, Utah Mrs. Rebecca A. Carson Miller Parowan, Utah Mrs. Stena Sorensen Anderson Central, Utah Mrs. Eliza Ottelia Huber Gibson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Miranda Kelley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Inza Houtz Russon Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ninadell Klepper Shelby, Montana Mrs. Margaret McCurdy Roberts Vernal, Utah Mrs. Jean Coleman Alder Midway, Utah Mrs. Hannah Aldous Bihler Orland, California Mrs. Sarah Morse Williams Renton, Washington Mrs. Ellen Susanna Jorgensen Christensen Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Josephine Bawden Morgan Logan, Utah Mrs. Ellen. Swenson Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Phoebe Tenny Gardner Tucson, Arizona Especially recommended for wives and mothers OF FOOD AND THOUGHT by Florence B. Pinnock $4.50 "Today's Family' Editor has produced a delightful book that is more than just a collection of recipes... It is a daily guide to happier more effective service as a wife and mother. WITH SUGAR 'N SPICE by Daryl V. Hoole and Donette V. Ockey $3.95 Helpful supplement to enhance Family Home Evenings. Flip charts and lesson-stories for children that are memorable and effective. SE ——— i ru '! COMPANY V 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA ———— SSHSHHHSSHSHSHSSHSHHSHHSSHEHHHSHHSHSHSHOSSHHHSSHHSSHSHHOHOHEHSHSSHOHSHHHSHHEKTEHSHHEHEHEHESESES ORDER NOW; Deseret Book Company, 44 East Enclosed is a check/money order Utah. 84111 OR, 1 have an account..., bill 5. Acta OF ~~ of Utah will include $4.00 each 3¥%2% tax. Residents of Calif. Who —-° order through the Deseret Book Please send me........ Copies of Store at 777 South Main in SUGAR 'N SPICE $3.95 each Orange should add 4% Calif. Tax. Coon eoeeen enact ccseceeseeeccceeeeceeecnnctencecceceenaeeeeceeeeeesceescessensuenanaueonseeess encom coe aac eececeeeeeeeeeeceees State o.. Ecececeeeceeeececesees Ziijie:....... Ae May Relief Society 66 South Temple, Salt Lake City, for the total cost of my purchase; Ere" - ag NK a Gap. = Uy i Wom Sel ' oo i. By = a al \ Ur }. Sapa ¢ » x. 'Gap. ~ ' ad « vu: aS Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah to build... A man-made mountain of pure food energy... Since starting operations at Lehi, Utah, in 1891, U and I Sugar factories in Utah, Idaho, Washington, and other western states have produced a 16-billion-pound mountain of pure U and I Sugar! Hard to comprehend? Then try it this way: that's enough sugar to provide a five-pound bag for every man, woman, and child on the earth — all three billion of them! During this same seventy-five years, U and I Sugar has built an industry valued totally in all operating areas at approximately eighty million dollars. It provides a stable cash crop for farmers, and a multi-million-dollar annual local labor payroll. Each year U and I purchases in each operating area millions of dollars' worth of goods and services (ranging from fuel coke and limerock to building materials and office supplies)... And pays more millions of dollars for transportation services and taxes (which help build schools and highways and support various government services). Nature's pure food energy, sugar gives you the vitalit, you need to stay active... Helps you burn up calories instead of storing them as fat. Its only aftertaste is the energy you feel. See? "< U and I Sugar is the West's source of this pure food energy It's your home sugar — locally grown and refined. Doesn't it wer woven! Make sense to always buy U and I? PURE NINE GRANULATED The Reilicf SOCISKY Magazine JUNE 1966 Volume 53 Number 6 Christie Lund Coles The mountains form a necklace for my town, Green as amethyst or the rarest jade; Sunlight falls like gold-dust from a crown; Clouds embroider the sky of delphinium shade. Each eye is entranced when looking on this scene, Where maples border walks; where water moves Silverly humming tunes; reflecting green Of dainty willows which the memory loves. Here, sometimes, just at dusk an organ plays, Or carillon chimes peel out from some far tower; This is a moment when the spirit prays, Knowing a sacred, sanctifying hour. | thank God for this moment and this spot, So richly given and so dearly bought. The Cover: 3) Machupicchu, Peru | Transparency by Vernon Sharp _ Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: 4 Kamas Valley, Utah, Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: | Dick Scopes | JIustrations: |} Mary Scopes For a long time | have wanted to say thanks for our little Magazine which | enjoy so very much. | love the lessons, the stories, and the poetry. The Poem "On the Mountain' (by Melba S. Payne) in the March issue was especially thrilling because | could immediately recognize the mountains and. The town the author wrote about. | feel that | must have grown up in the very same valley. June B. Jensen Orem, Utah | want to tell you how delighted we are with the Magazine. Each issue is even more beautiful and inspiring, and its arrival is eagerly awaited. The beautiful colored pictures add so much to the appearance, and the accompanying articles are well written. | particularly enjoyed the description of the ''White Sands'"' (by Claire W. Noall, April 1966), and in memory relived an unforgettable afternoon our family spent there. In our stake we were thrilled with the lovely reproduction of the quilt made by Nellie H. Smith (March 1966). Sister Smith lives in the Eleventh Ward of Mesa Stake. Ada J. Jones President Mesa (Arizona) Stake Relief Society As a one-year-old convert to the Church and as literature class leader in our ward, | realize what an important part our Magazine plays in my life and work. This Magazine is superb. | shall ever be grateful for its excellence of quality and the stimulating spiritual diet it provides. Its influence is apparent in homemaking and in studying, and it is invaluable in strengthening those ties of love and understanding which unite our sisterhood. The poetry delights me, the stories instruct and warm me. Rae A. Williams Avondale, Auckland New Zealand 402 Thank you for placing the picture of the Ricks College Stake Relief Society Board in the March 1966 Magazine. At our stake board meeting last week, each member gave a personal experience concerning the. Picture. The college dormitory mother said. The girls flocked into her apartment to congratulate her on being in the picture. Many of the girls are going to put the picture in their Books of Remembrance. Another board member said that her friend whom she hadn't seen for thirty years wrote saying she had seen the picture in the Magazine. Lisle L. Andrus President Ricks College Stake Relief Society Rexburg, Idaho After reading the March 1966 issue of our Relief Society Magazine,! Felt compelled to express my gratitude for th talents of its many contributors. | was especially inspired and motivated by the prize-winning story written by La Littke (''The Search for Katie'). It seemed to have been written as an. Answer to the anxieties of finding my present identity. As. A young mother, |, too, have been facing the same questions that Sister. Littke wrote about; and, after her story, | feel satisfied and blessed with my role as wife and mother in my lovely home. | pray that our Magazine may. Continue to be a guide and inspiration to the women of today. Linda M. Staley Hunter, Utah. | have subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and think it is the best little Magazine ever. | especially enjoyed the article 'Under the Surface." by Ruth House in the December 1965 issue. She lives in our home town, so | felt | had a glimpse of 7 home. Edith S. Marshall rE Holbrook, Arizona Tire Relief Society Magazine Volume 53 June 1966 Number 6 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 404 406 408 420 430 Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay Relief Society Magazine in Spanish Marion G. Romney James A. Cullimore Appointed Assistant to the Council 'of the Twelve Annual Report for 1965 Hulda P. Young Mexico City Claire W. Noail 415 Wheat for the Wise—Chapter 6 Margery S. Stewart General Features 402 410 412 414 453 480 From Near and Far Editorial: A Relief Society History Making Event Belle S. Spafford Editorial: The 136th Annual General Church Conference Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 437 438 Festival of the Dolls Antique Your Plastic Flowers Dorothy J. Roberts Holiday in Rhyme Bazaar Kitchen Crafts on Display Colorful Clown Attends Family Night Fun Bazaar German Holiday Buffet Carla Sansom Fun for Two Alice Willardson The Gleaners (Millet) Floyd Breinholt The Three Wise Men Home Is a Place for Handicraft Our Special Garden Helen M. Peterson Lesson Department 460 462 464 466 468 471 472 Spiritual Living—Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Roy W. Doxey Visiting Teacher Messages—Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Alice Colton Smith Homemaking—Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Celestia J. Taylor Social Relations—Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Alberta H. Christensen Cultural Refinement—Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Robert K. Thomas Notes on New Authors of the Lessons Homemaking—Does Your Home Have a Personality? Hazel S. Cannon Poetry 401 My Town Christie Lund Coles Lift the Heart to Gladness, Catherine B. Bowles, 407; Garden Kaleidoscope, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 440; Summer and Sleeping Bags, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 470; The Morning Skies Are Fair and Bright, Vilate R. McAllister, 475; To a Hurt Child, Alda L. Brown, 478; Absolutes, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 478; Wasted Hours, Ruth G. Rothe, 478; My Hour, Pearle M. Olsen, 480. — Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Dithday Congratulations @ The birthday of beloved Emma Ray Riggs McKay is a time expressing love and appreciation, a time of gratitude for her prese among us. In this time of early summer when her home valley i radiant with blossoms, the birthday of Emma Ray Riggs McKay be observed. She has been the beloved wife, helpmate, and compani of President McKay for sixty-five years. The General Board of Reli Society and the members of the world-wide sisterhood extend | and greetings to a beautiful and exemplary woman who has expres in her own life the lofty and gracious ideals of devoted womanh Emma Ray Riggs McKay is appreciated by her children as a ki and loving mother who has accepted wholeheartedly the res sibilities of family life and has rejoiced in the abundant blessi that come to a woman in that all-important kingdom of the ho She has created and maintained a gracious atmosphere in many wa' Her disciplined and lovely speaking voice has been greatly admi —her quiet words, her precise diction, and her way of finding kindest phrasing to bring the blessings of peace to her househo. Her high regard for the proper function of words has been a mar cultural influence—-slang words and incorrect grammar not bei permitted, but words used to speak of praise and approbation. In the various phases of her life, Sister McKay has endeavo to look upward and outward. She has sought the cultural influe which Relief Society women everywhere are seeking—the finest highest elements of art and music and literature. Wherever possi during her travels, she has visited the world-famous art galleries has sought to evaluate for herself the significance and the symboli of those masterpieces which have received the approbation of ages. She loves great and good music. Her favorite of the mas works is 'The Messiah"—that magnificent telling in music the of the Savior, the prophecies of his coming, and the eternal messa of the gospel. Literature has been Sister McKay's dear comp: for many years, and scriptures have given her and the family ¢ tinuing comfort and enlightenment. It is a far-reaching and exalted thought for a woman to reali that the haven of her home is the center of an ever-widening circle of influence. The sweet spirit of love and kindness and culture has been extended to the many guests in the McKay home, and to the thousands of Church members who have been privileged to meet Sister McKay personally. She has graciously responded to all those whom she has met in her journeyings with President McKay, for she has made communication of attitudes and ideals a unifying aspect of her life, carrying into all her associations the love and the refinement which have always been an adornment in her home, taking abroad and sharing her gifts and her accomplishments. 404 EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY AND CHILDREN Emma Rae (Mrs. Conway Ashton); Edward R. McKay (now Dr. Edward R. McKay); Robert R. McKay (the baby on Sister McKay's lap). In April, Sister McKay was given a special award "Woman of the Year"—presented by the Associated Women Students of Brigham Young University, to 'motivate and inspire women on the campus." A beautiful quilt made by the Relief Society of Honeyville Ward (Utah) was given to Sister McKay on this occasion. As Relief Society women, we express our love and deep appreciation for Sister McKay and extend to her congratulations for her birthday. 405 Spanish Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve 406 Min 1842, when the Reli Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, its objective was to "relieve the poor and to save souls." In other words, thé women of the Church were to assume their share of the responsibility of carrying forward the work of the Lord. This, of course, was to be done under the direction of the Priesthood. With faith, courage, vision, and industry, the women of the Church have carried forward the objectives of the Relief Society to the present time. In the beginning, the messag of guidance given to the Reli Society by the Prophet Jose Smith, were carried by word o mouth to the sisters of the o ganization. Then, as the wo spread to outlying areas, es cially after the move to U and the western regions, the in bulletins. The Relief Society was servi through the pages of the Wom an's Exponent from 1872, when i began publication under the direction of President Brigham Young, until it was discontinued in February 1914. Eventually, in 1915, the Relief Society, with the approval of the First Presidency, began publishing its own Relief Society Magazine, "A monthly periodical— edited, managed, and published by the General Board of The Relief Society." You will note that it was from 1842 to 1915—a period of seventy-three years—before a Relief q Society Magazine was made available to the sisters through- out the English-speaking countries. Today, the Spanish-speaking Relief Society members constitute the greatest number next to the English-speaking members. As you know, the leaders of the missions have had access to the Magazine for many years, and have sent to Relief Society members, in bulletin form, many of the articles and suggestions, as well as the lessons. Now, at length, the Spanish-speaking sisters have the privilege of having the Magazine printed in the Spanish language, especially that they may use it in doing their part in "caring for the poor and in saving souls." In addition to the lessons and the helps found in the Magazine, there are "many literary, artistic, and practical articles, designed to improve our minds and beautify our homes," as stated in a letter announcing the first publi- 'cation of the Magazine. Personally, I am very grateful that, after these many years, the Spanish-speaking sisters may now LIFT THE HEART TO GLADNESS Catherine B. Bowles RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IN SPANISH have access to the same material and inspiration as do the sisters near the headquarters of the Church. They need it. Their families need it. Much emphasis is — being placed, on the home, home teaching of the gospel and the responsibilities of the parents in bringing up their children in righteousness. In the Relief Society Magazine will be found many articles, stories, and suggestions that will have enrichment value, not only for Relief Society members and the Relief Society program, but that will interest and inspire their families. We hope that the Spanish sisters will make every possible effort to get this Magazine into every home in their branches, and that each will read and use it. We think that enlightenment and increased faith will result, and that ways and means will be made clear to the sisters of the Relief Society whereby they can participate in "caring for the poor and saving souls." Kind words are like the flowers That brighten the shadowed day And lift the heart to gladness Above the troubled way. When unkind words are spoken That wound the tender heart, God in his infinite mercy Will love and strength impart. The fragrance of life, is measured. By deeds of lasting worth— Each act a flower of goodness To brighten the path of earth. 407 @ At the opening session of the 136th Annual General Conference of the Church, April 6, 1966, James Alfred Cullimore, a devoted and experienced Church leader, was appointed as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, making a present total of twelve Assistants to the Council. Elder Cullimore was born in Pleasant Grove, Utah, January 17, 1906, and was graduated from Pleasant Grove High School. At Brigham Young University, he was president of the senior class, and president of the student body. In these positions his outstanding qualities of leadership and his remarkable executive ability were evident. He received his Master's degree from the New York University School of Retailing. He was married in the Salt Lake Temple, June 3, 1931, to Grace Gardner of Spanish Fork. They have two daughters, Luella and Nancy, and a son Kelvyn. Church service began at an early age for Elder Cullimore and has continued throughout his life. During his mission in California (1925-27), he was made a district president. He was Timpanogos Stake Sunday School superintendent, branch president 408 Elder James Alfred Cullimo in Sioux City, Iowa, and in the Oklahoma City Branch. Later, he became district president in the West Oklahoma District, Centra. States Mission, a position he held for nine years. In 1960 he was sustained as the first president of Oklahoma Stake. Shortly afte this appointment, he was called to be president of the Central British Mission, where he served for two and a half years. During his presidency, many outstanding accomplishments were made, including the completion of the building of the Merthyr-Tydfil meetinghouse in time for its dedication by President David O. McKay, whose mother and her ancestors had lived in that area of Wales. Also, during his presidency, the distribution of The Book of Mormon increased from fifty to 300 a week, converts increased, and the gospel was made known to thousands by a vigorous and well-directed program which was carried to many new Elder Cullimore and His Family Standing at the back: Elder Cullimore; seated at the left: Grace Gardner Cullimore; at the right: Nancy Marie Cullimore; inset at left: Kelvin Henry Cullimore; at right: Grace Luella Cullimore Payne (Mrs. Cities and villages where Church organizations had not previously functioned. His great ability in leadership and management has served him well in business. He has been associated with Gimble Brothers of New York City and also Mandel Brothers in Chicago. In Oklahoma, during the past twenty years, he has established one of the largest furniture firms in the state, and, in 1960, he was given the Fourth Annual Alumni Achievement Award by the New York University School of Retailing Alumni Association. Elder Cullimore's outgoing and optimistic personality invites conDale Payne). Fidence and respect, and his influence among his associates in Church and community activities is uplifting and inspirational. The General Board of Relief Society and the Relief. Society members in the stakes and missions of the Church are pleased and gratified that Elder Cullimore has been made a General Authority, and they welcome his gracious and accomplished wife. In his address as a new General Authority, Elder Cullimore expressed humility in his calling and said "... Only by virtue of the strength I receive from the. Lord can I become a good servant." 409 EDITORIAL @ It must have been an impressive occasion that Thursday afternoon 124 years ago when eighteen sisters attentively listened to their beloved leader, the Prophet Joseph Smith, say, ''l now declare this Society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usages—and all who shall hereafter be admitted to this Society must be free from censure and be received by vote.'' These were women residing in what was then a western frontier town of the United States called Nauvoo. The sisters had accepted the restored gospel of Christ and had within them a burning desire to do their part in the work of the Church. They believed that if they could be formed into a Ladies Society whereby their means and efforts might be combined, they could more effectively serve, particularly with regard to the Nauvoo Temple. They had sought an organization at the hands of the Prophet, and under the inspiration of the Lord, he had organized them under the Priesthood and after a pattern of the Priesthood, a unique organization for women in all the world. Addressing the eighteen women assembled on that memorable occasion of the founding of Relief Society, Elder John Taylor, who had accompanied the Prophet to the meeting, said that he ''rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the laws of Heaven... And to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner."' He praye that ''the blessings of Heaven might rest on this institution henceforth." As the years have moved along, hundreds of thousands of women residing in many parts of the world have rejoiced that this Society was organized. They have seen it move forward, blessed of Heaven. Through the years the sisters of Relief Society have given loyal, devoted, and unselfish service to the Priesthood. They have ministered to the downtrodden; they have nursed the sick and fed the hungry; they have sustained those whose souls were weary. Through the Society the graces of lovely womanhood have been nurtured, and the arts and skills of glorious motherhood have been developed. Talents have been enlarged upon and put to worthy uses. Volume 53 JULY 1966 Number 6 e Beile S. Spafford, President e Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor e Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor ©@ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer The sisters have been blessed individually and collectively, as they have labored in the fulfillment of the purposes set for the Society by God's chosen prophets. It was a blessed day, indeed, when, as an aid in furthering the work of this organization, the Society was given a Magazine of its own, ''to be edited, managed, and published by the General Authorities of the Society.'' This publication has served as the voice of Relief Society. It has helped to unify and standardize the work. It has served as a lesson manual for the educational courses. It has been an outlet for the literary aspirations of Latter-day Saint women. Its contents have been animated by the spirit of the gospel and its gospel teaching articles by Priesthood and Relief Society leaders have strengthened faith and built testimonies. In the Centenary of Relief Society, issued on the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, we read, ''This Magazine belongs by right to every woman of the Church.'' While language barriers stand in the way of full realization of this at the present time, a great step forward has been made as the Magazine becomes available in Spanish for the many Spanish-speaking sisters throughout the Church. The General Board rejoices that this instrument which has proven so valuable to the English-speaking sisters and such an important factor in the strength of their Relief Societies, may now intimately touch and influence the lives of the Spanish-speaking sisters and reach into their Relief Societies as a bulwark of strength. The advent of The Relief Society Magazine in the Spanish language is a history-making event. May it bless our beloved Spanish-speaking sisters. May it bless their homes. May it bless their families. May it be a truly effective instrument in helping the Spanish-speaking Relief Societies to move forward in an even more glorious manner, is our earnest prayer. —B. S. S Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West 412 The 136 th Annu @ The Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6, 9, and 10, 1966, commemorating the 136th anniversary of the organization of the Church. Once more carrying a message of faith, devotion, and inspiration, the proceedings were carried to far countries and across the oceans by short wave radio. Many television and radio stations in Canada and the United States gave precedence to a broadcast of the meetings. The General Authorities, except President Thorpe B. Isaacson, who was ill in the hospital, were present at the conference. President David O. McKay, now in his ninety-third year, presided at all the sessions and addressed three of the meetings. A pervading theme was reflected throughout the conference— faith in God, the Eternal Father, and in his Son Jesus Christ, the reality of the resurrection, a profound belief in the second coming, and a forward progression of all those worthy of exaltation in the eternities. At the opening session a new General Authority was sustained. James Alfred Cullimore of Oklahoma was appointed an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. In his address on Saturday, the day before Easter, President McKay called upon the world to recognize and worship Jesus and acknowledge his literal resurrection. General Church Conference When Christians throughout the world have this faith coursing in their veins, when they feel a loyalty in their hearts to the resurrected Christ, and to the principles connoted thereby, mankind will have taken the first great step toward the perpetual peace toward which we daily are praying.... The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints declares to all the world that Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. No true follower is satisfied to accept him merely as a great reformer, the ideal teacher, or even as the one perfect man. The Man of Galilee is... Literally the Son of the Living God. President Hugh B. Brown declared a powerful testimony of the truth and reality of the resurrection of Jesus. We reaffirm our faith in the Bible as the word of God. We believe its teachings, its doctrines, its definitions and revelations of an omnipotent and omniscient God. The fact that man was created in his image confirms our faith that he is living and personal. He is our Eternal Father, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the Jehovah of the Old Testament, and the promised Messiah. We proclaim the preexistence and divine nature of Jesus the Christ, the purpose of his earth life, the reality of his resurrection.... President N. Eldon Tanner spoke with great concern about the growing tendency throughout the world to deny the existence of the living God. The issue, then, becomes quite clear, that it is not what kind of God man can believe in, but what kind of man does the Living God reach.... In order for life to have a purpose... It is necessary that we be willing to admit the possibility that God does exist.... All down through the ages prophets have borne testimony that they have talked with God.... Hundreds of thousands of individuals scattered throughout the world today can bear testimony that their prayers have been answered in many ways. President Joseph Fielding Smith devoted his remarks to calling attention to the '"'signs of the times.'' He said: Shall we slumber on in utter oblivion or indifference to all that the Lord has given us as warning.... Many things have happened during the past one hundred and thirty-six years to impress faithful members of the Church with the fact that the coming of the Lord is near. The gospel has been restored. The Church has been fully organized. The Priesthood has been conferred upon man. The various dispensations from the beginning have been revealed and their keys and authorities given to the Church. In a heartfelt blessing to all the saints, at the close of conference, President McKay in speaking his appreciation to the saints for their loyal and willing response to calls for service in extending the work of the Lord at home and abroad, gave a scriptural admonition: ''... Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness...." 413 Prime Minister Indira Ghandi of India in March became the first woman head of a country to visit the President of the United States. The Ambassador to India, Chester Bowles, was the first representative of a foreign power to call on the new Prime Minister, and on that occasion extended to Mrs. Ghandi an invitation from President Johnson to visit him in Washington. The President is arranging for the United States, in cooperation with other nations, to send about twelve million tons of food to India to help feed her starving millions. The payment will be in Indian money (rupees), which will purchase products from India. Crown Princess Beatrix of Holland, twenty-eight years old, on March 10th married Claus von Amsberg, thirty-nine years old, a former German diplomat. They hope to stem the tide of disapproval among some Dutch people, because of his nationality, by serving Holland loyally and wisely. Peggy Fleming, a seventeen-year-old high school student from Colorado Springs, U. S. A., with her ''flawless'' skating won the woman's world iceskating championship in Davos, Switzerland, on February 27. Frances Carter Yost, prolific writer for The Relief Society Magazine and other Church and non-Church publications, has just published a new book "That They Might Know Thee" (Deseret Book Company). 414 Ramona W. Cannon Hisako Nakahara was crowned Japan's Cherry Blossom Queen in Tokyo in la March. Her crown contains 976 pea set in 800 grams of gold. She went Washington, D. C., U. S. A., to attend t Cherry Blossom Festival, beginning o April 12. The Japanese presented t cherry trees to the United Sta Government in 1912. At the height of their spring blossoming, they prese a sight never to be forgotten. Dianna Lynn Batts, a recent convert tc the Church, from Falls Chure Virginia, is the present Miss USA a placed second in the Miss World co test in London last fall. In an addre to 4,000 seminary students in the Sa Lake Tabernacle, Miss Batts urged t students to remain loyal to Chur standards at all times. She was member of Bob Hope's troupe in i three grueling weeks in Viet Nam to entertain service men at Christma time. Frances G. Knight is the United States Passport office director, and inthat position must be informed on the loyalty of Americans traveling abroad. Madeleine Helfrey, director of research and programming at the Utah State Training School for the mentally retarded, was appointed in March to President Johnson's Advisory Board on Mental Retardation, one of eighte persons throughout the United States to serve on this board. Wheat, for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter 6 Synopsis: Jennie Starr, whose husband Rex is not a member of the Church, realizes after some years that her family needs the blessings of spirituality and religious training. Somewhat reluctantly, Rex agrees to a trial period of one year in which Jennie and the children have his permission to participate in Church activities. Jennie feels that they are making definite progress and that family unity and cooperation are helping them to achieve rich spiritual blessings. @ Even before Jennie put down her groceries, she could tell something drastic had happened to her family. She could tell by the way Rex went out without speaking and drove off with a furious spinning of tires; by the way the white cat Billy had given her crouched under the kitchen table. By Lora's quietness when she went upstairs to investigate. "They had a big fight," Lora said, "and would you like some hot cocoa? I just made some." Jennie drank the pretended cocoa at a gulp. "Who had a fight?" "Daddy and Lance. Lance is going to run away." Jennie hastily surrendered the. Doll cup and went in search of her son. She found him in the: garage, examining his sleeping bag. "Isn't January a bit cold for that sort of thing?" He did not answer. His face was turned away from her. His fingers worried the clasps of the bag. "What happened between you and your father?" Jennie sat on her heels beside him. She ran her hand through his stiff browning hair. Once his hair had been as golden as Lora's; once it had been as soft as Johnnie's. But now it was as unyielding as his face. "That's between Dad and me." Lance was growing up. Jennie stood up uncertainly. No probing, she decided. She turned to go. 415 JUNE 1966 "But he can't keep me from going to Mutual and being a Scout... And going on a mission." Jennie shivered. The father and son relationship, one of the pleasantest in the family, was seemingly in a state of chaos. "Tll ask him," Jennie said guardedly. She made dinner, served it to a silent and heavy-eyed family. No one seemed to want to look at anyone else. Rex did not meet her eyes. He was remote, crisp, and plainly girded for battle. Then Jennie cleared the table, washed the dishes with Sabra's help, bathed Johnny and Lora, and sent the older ones to their rooms to study. The house was quiet. She went into the family room and set up the ironing board before the television. But Rex did not come in to keep her company and she did not turn on the screen. She heard Rex go out again. She ironed shirts and hung them on hangers, fourteen shirts a week... Twenty-one it would be when Johnny was out of the knit stage. "Billy's cat," which had been officially named "Samantha," and was still called "Billy's Cat," came and rubbed against her ankles. Jennie took a moment to worry about Billy. He had skipped his last lesson. Why? He was doing very well, really reading. He was not fast, he was not always accurate, and his spelling was atrocious. But he could read better and better all the time. His teacher had taken heart and was helping him after school, too. Jennie called Mrs. Wentworth and was rewarded by learning that Billy had been ill, and she, 416 Mrs. Wentworth, had been too busy to call. Billy would be back on Monday. Jennie put down the phone and lit the gas logs in the fireplace. Without Rex, the house seemed cold and friendless. She gnawed on the worrisome bone of Rex and Lance's behavior at dinner, cold enmity on Lance's part, an equally cold determination on Rex's. The doorbell rang and Jennie went to answer it. Two men stood under the porch light, the bishop and the Mutual superintendent, Jimmy Owens. Jennie smiled and asked them in. "The fact of the matter is," the bishop boomed, "you've done such a good job with your Trekkers that we've come to ask you to help us on another little chore." "Little?" asked Jennie hopefully. "It's the road show," said the superintendent. '"We've been a ward for ten years and we've never won a road show yet... 'to make it even harder, our drama director is having a baby about then." The bishop smiled. "With your talent with the Trekkers, we thought you would be a natural for this." Jennie sat back aghast. "But I've never even seen a road show." "T'll help," said Jim Owens. "We just want you to write a ten-minute skit that will win the first prize, that's all." "But if it doesn't win?" Jennie asked, a sudden picture of a ward full of disappointed faces floating before her. "Everyone will understand," said the bishop, laughter crinkling his eyes. Jennie laughed with him. Un- derstanding was sometimes as painful as uttered fury. "T'll ask my husband," she said. "If he says I may... I would like to try it." When they had gone she went back and finished the ironing. She looked at the kitchen clock as she put the board away, twelvethirty. Where could Rex be? He came after another stretch of waiting. She heard his car in the driveway and the sound of the garage door slamming open and, after a moment, slamming vigorously shut. He was still in a bad mood. She braced herself for whatever might be the reason. Rex came in through the kitchen door. "Can't those kids remember to put anything away!" "What was it?" "Lora's sled!" He rubbed his ankle bone. Jennnie put the iron away in silence. Rex slammed the refrigerator door. "Someone ate the last one to Billy's cat." "Oh, Rex... I didn't know you wanted one.... I gave the last one to Billy's Cat." Silence. Jennie stacked sheets. "T suppose Lance told you," he said at last. "He didn't tell me anything." "Oh." All the wind was taken out of his sails. "Do you want to tell me?" she asked. _"T wouldn't give my permission for his baptism, nor Sabra's." She slid into a chair. "Ah...." Pain found the hollow under her ribs and filled it with ice. She could not speak because of the pain. Yet it was not physical pain.... It was a new kind, like a dark knife probing. She thought of Lance's stubborn efforts to learn all the ArtiWHEAT FOR THE WISE cles of Faith. "Then he can't be a deacon," she said. "That's right." "He'll be twelve next week, you know. He wanted to be a deacon so very much." Rex came over to the table and leaned on his knuckles. "I am not convinced." "TI am, Lance is, so is Sabra." "They don't know what truth is." She looked at him curiously. "Do you?" He turned away and paced the floor. "They are growing away from us." "Not from me." She put out her hand, but she could not say, "You are the lonely hunter." He came back to lean on the table again. "No baptisms." She said, "It is not the end of the year. Do you insist we leave it all?" "No." He moved irresolutely about. "Only nothing final, irrevocable... I am still the captain of this ship." "You are the captain of the ship," she agreed. When it had been quiet for a long time, and she realized that he wanted to end the subject, she asked him, "Do you mind if I take another job?" '"'What kind of a job?" He was instantly curious. "Road show." "What's that?" She explained as much as she knew. He said, "I can't help you, I've got a class coming up to teach... Stocks and bonds stuff." She thought a moment. "But you don't mind if I go ahead?" "No, not if you can handle it." He went upstairs to bed. Jennie sat in the silent kitchen. 417 JUNE 1966 Should she do it? She thought of Lance, who needed something to take up all his energy and his thoughts at this particular time. She thought also of Sabra, who needed a vicarious outlet for her own talents. She thought of the boys and girls of other families, who might be going through far more galling things than she or hers. She fasted and prayed and composed a road show that would include most of the Mutual and all of her own children. The Starr family ate road show, drank it, and swam in it, Rex morosely stated, when he went to take a quiet bath and found the tub filled with red dye and tinting sheets. "Tt's for the gypsies," Sabra explained. "They all have red skirts and they do this dance.... Let me show you." Rex looked from his daughter's lifted, glowing face to Jennie's weary one. "There won't be much left of you by the time this deal is over." "T'll survive," Jennie assured him. "If we win, I'll really lose ten years." "And if you don't?" Jennie shuddered. She thought of sixty-seven downcast faces. She said hesitantly, "We need someone to drive us to the stake house...." "T'll do it,'' said Rex. Jennie looked at him in surprise. He sounded as eager as any member of the enormous cast. After a frantic day, the road show went on. Jennie, weak and limp from helping to make up some thirty faces, watched from the back of the hall. She thought it was good. The audience seemed to like it. Hope began a happy 418 flutter in the pit of her stomach. But when the spokesman for the judges came out and announced that first prize had gone to the rival ward, Jennie fled into the night. Once outside, however, with the tears outside her, instead of in, she rallied her courage and went back in to comfort sixtyseven disappointed thespians. She was received with wild acclaim. Her show had won second place and sixty-seven voices in fanatic loyalty were trying to point out to her, at once, the hideous bias of the judges. They related shrilly the comments of friends and relatives, whose judgment coincided with theirs. It was all a hideous mistake, which no one really could blame anyone else for certainly. In _ sixty-seven fervent minds all glory was theirs. Rex drove her home. Johnny slept in Jennie's arms, none the worse for his experience. The other children were coming home with the neighbors. Rex looked at her narrowly. "Go to bed for a week," he ordered, "you're all hollows." "T never felt so well," she protested, "so relaxed... Did you ever in all your life hear so many kind words?" She turned them over in her mind, still enchanted by the thought of herself as a successful director. "T never did, " Rex assured her, "and never was praise more justified.'"' He held her hand. "TI was very proud of you... Very proud, indeed." He patted her cheek. "Especially when the judges awarded first place to the other ward. You were the picture of serenity." Jennie could not help laughing. She wondered when she would tell him about the tears falling forlornly about her as she stood shivering in the January chill. Never, she thought. After all, when one has not quite measured up, it's better to keep it to oneself. Rex said thoughtfully. '"Those youngsters really impressed me." "How?". He shook his head. '"Where do you drive a carload of teenagers around nowadays, and hear not one word of profanity, smell no cigarette smoke, and not one other thing out of line, either?" She reached for his hand. Any other man would probably be criticising the youngsters for their noise or their pushing, or. Finding some fault. She was grateful to Rex, for seeing only, in this instance, the good. She put Johnny to bed while Rex was putting the car away. She sat down in the family room to wait for the others. Lance was first. "Tt was great." He went to the kitchen to find makings for a sandwich. "You looked pretty tonight, too," he yelled at her, "somebody said you did, forget who...." "Thank you, Lance,' she called, 'go easy on the mayonnaise. I forgot to get some today." "Ah, gosh, Mom.... I hate tuna without a lot of mayonnaise. O. K." He came back with a tray of sandwiches and a glass and the milk bottle. She winced at the bottle, but said nothing, not tonight. He said, "I guess I won't go back any more though." Alarm suffused her. "Go back where?" "To Church and all that stuff. It's not worth it." She said gently. "Put down WHEAT FOR THE WISE your sandwich, Lance, and come over here." He obeyed her and she pushed out a chair and motioned him to sit. He was puzzled and wary. "What do you want? What do you want me to sit here for? Gosh, Mom, my sandwich is getting dry." "Have you read The Book of Mormon, Lance?' "Not all the way through." "What do you think of it?" He was puzzled. "It's great... That is parts are... That is, what I can understand is." "Do you believe it?" He looked at her in amazement. "Sure? Why not?" "Then why drop out of the line?" "What line?" "The iron rod line?" He looked her in the eye. "Because I can't stand not to be with Dad all the way. He's the best one in the whole town." She considered. "Are you going to stop praying for him?" "No." "Are you going to stop doing what you know is right?" "No... Of course not. Dad wouldn't think much of me if I did." She smiled and rumpled his hair. "There are cookies in the freezer. Get them out and let them thaw." He stood up. He answered her smile. "I get you... I'm with you, Mom... All the way."' He hesitated. "Will we win?" She said softly, "The big and burning question is, will your Dad win? Right?" "Right," he said, "on account of without him, it just wouldn't be any fun."; (To be concluded) 419 421 1965 Annual Report — Growth, accomplishment, and dedicated service mark the achievements of Relief Societies throughout the world during 1965. Evidence of this was observed as General Board members visited every stake in the Church and some missions at the time of stake quarterly conferences. It was confirmed in the reports received at the General Board office covering the works and activities of the 6,662 stake, mission, district, ward, and branch organizations located in 53 countries through the world. The influence of this work directed to the building of Latter-day Saint homes, to care of the poor and the sick, to the comforting of the downtrodden and bereaved, to uplifting and developing each individual member, and to the saving of souls has been felt by hundreds of thousands who have been recipients of its services, and of its cultural offerings, and participants in its meetings and activities. More than 12,000 new Relief Society members were enrolled during the year, swelling our ranks to 286,820 members of this world-wide sisterhood. Many other sisters who were already members of Relief Society have also been brought into greater activity in the program through the conducting of evening, in addition to daytime, sessions of Relief Society. These evening sessions have been appreciated by working mothers and single women who were unable to attend daytime sessions. More Relief Societies have also been organized on college campuses where intelligent, enthusiastic young girls are becoming imbued with the program of the organization. Organizations and members in foreign-speaking countries are rejoicing over the greater amount of program materials, lessons, standard record books, and instructions that are being made available to them in their own languages and which are greatly strengthening the work there. At the four weekly meetings of the Society to which increasing numbers of sisters have been in attendance, L. D. S. Women have been instructed in gospel principles, in ideas that exalt and ennoble womanhood, in truths that help them to achieve a peace in the midst of a troubled world. They have received practical instruction in homemaking skills and in the development of their creative abilities. Through the Priesthood coordinated course taught the forepart of the year in the work meeting and the latter part of the year in the social science meeting, they have received guidance on developing family unity through improved social relations in the home, and on applying the gospel in the lives of family members. In the literature meeting, now to be known as the cultural refinement meeting, the sisters have learned to share the wonders, wisdom, and delights of good reading with family members. Through the program of Relief Society as directed by the General Priesthood leaders of the Church, mothers have been helped to see their role with their husbands in the new family home evening program, and Relief Society leaders have been guided in so pointing the program of the organization as to help mothers be more effective in their functions related to the family home evening. A vast corps of more than 125,000 visiting teachers have continued the devoted service started in the early days of Relief Society in Nauvoo of visiting every L. D. S. Family ''to search out the poor and suffering." in fulfilling this sacred calling visiting teachers have brought inspiration through the messages they have discussed in the homes; they have comforted the homebound and aged sisters, many of whom are living in rest homes; and they have endeavored to cause all whom they have visited to know of Relief Society's interest in them which would give them a feeling of belonging. Through the divinely inspired program of Relief Society, nearly 189,000 devoted and dedicated leaders have continued to carry forward the work for which the organization was originally established and as presently directed by the presiding Priesthood of the Church. The leaders themselves have increased in their abilities and in their spirituality as they have rendered this service. Through the united efforts of leaders and members, Relief Society in 1965 fulfilled its function as an aid to the Priesthood in helping to build the kingdom. General Secretary-Tfeasurer 1965 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION of Relief Society in the United States Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware Dist. Of Columbie Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Iilinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri ~ 653 487 12,064 283 39,957 3,898 697 2,316 1,172 2,278 27,46) 1,576 1.114 586 598 638 785 396 SOR 463 Afghanistan Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Bermuda Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy Organizations and Members in Other Countries Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Texas a Utah 1,349 Vermont Virginia Washington West Virgini Wisconsin 390 4656 Japan Korea Lebanon Mexico Netherlands New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zo Paraguay Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Turkey Union of So. Afric Uruguay Wales Totals United States Other Countries Grand Total 12,739 26 6BS 19 425 Tennessee Wyoming 1965 U. S. Totals E 1964 U. S. Totals Kea: 4,664 236.158 224,145 Five Year Membership Growth increase 72,618 425 MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions Non-L. D. S. Members 286,820 247,395 39,425 2,378 LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served as Ward and Branch Executive Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers 22,071 119899 23,729 125,095 ORGANIZATIONS Organizations (Total) Stake and Mission Mission Districts: 331 Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions 6,662 5,847 3,902 1,945 274,703 234,778 39,925 2,412 182,966 4,568 1¢s7S 21,596 iy 567 28725 120,611 6,531 796 400 74 322 5N75 3,785 1,950 12,117+ 12je17=- 31010) 34 — 5'8el!-- Wee 25 — 475+ 332+ 478+ 4,484 + ISl = oF Hoke le oiL 2 lIWer 5— L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions NON-L. D. S. FAMILIES Visited by Visiting Teachers Non-L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits (Total) Home Not Home Per Cent at Home 568,631 463,265 105,366 9,543 7,017 2,526 68,008 4,591,741 3,006,646 1,585,095 65.48% Communications in Lieu of Visits 136,782 125,095 559,795 458, 751 106,044 10,779 7,029 3,750 120,611 64,531 4,466,668 2,949,996 1,516,672 66.04% 150)852 8,836+ 9,514+ 678 — 4,484 + 3,477+ 125,073+ 56,650+ 68,423-+ 56% — 13,570 — An average of 9.4 visits was made in the stakes to each family in 1965 An average of 8 visits was made Church-wide to each family in 1965 Leaders in the Society Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Organizations (Total) Stakes Missions 188,827 4,686 1,347 815 411 73 MEETINGS AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 108,19 92,186 16.009 115,977 111,592 101,240 104,370 ary Ae o/s 4 1 Spiritual Living Through Gospel Study SEWING 1,283,218 792,956 9 7 61 8 80,519 89,475 4.763 308 719 282,362 A490 262 5.770 5,097 674 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE 109,974 86.820 743,729 540,505 250 416 5.716 T T F VISITS BY STAKE AND ese pote chan | Household Management Through 28.677 0 ° 10,300 Homemaking Education COMPASSIONATE SERVICE 29,153 397,224 673,290 854 10,429 4,148 3,249 899 SINGING MOTHERS MAGAZINE Family Unity Through Social Relations CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Cultural Refinement Through The Arts Teotihuacan \ e*e Pyramid of the Sun Temple of Quetzacoatl Xochimilco 4 Ixtacihuatl 17,343' Toluca + Popocateptl Cuernavaca 17,887' a @ Mexico City sits like a queen on her ancient MeXiCO plain, more than 7,000 feet in altitude. In the spiritual heart of this capital are entwined unr told elements of time and civilizations whose polarities are worlds apart. Yet from this manyCl y colored band, from the repetitive rise and fall in the ways of man,- a massive strength has emerged, a strength born of the welding of Claire W. Noall opposites through more than half a millennium of time. Through the firm clasp of brotherhood, the Latter-day Saints of the city are extending their feeling of unity. Matthew and I drove in from the southwest. After leaving flat Toluca Valley, we were suddenly in the midst of the dark volcanic peaks which rose in chaos at our elbows. Even more impressive were the violet-misted summits of the distant horizon. The Valley of Mexico, some sixty by thirty miles in dimension, is all but surrounded by these cumbres. At our side, a deep canyon dropped abruptly in a wooded thrust. Descending the winding slopes, we traversed a light-shafted pine forest; then, almost before we knew it, Highway 15 became the Paseo de la Reforma and we were intersecting the city on one of the world's handsomest boulevards. Quickly we recognized the resemblance to Europe's Champs Elysées of Paris, and to El Prado of Madrid. We later learned that Maximilian had landscaped three miles of this highway for his entrance to the palace in Chapultepec Park. 430 MEXICO CITY As we proceeded alongside, we loved the cool expanse of the park, with its two and three-hundred-year-old trees, volcanic boulders, and its winding waterways. Apartments and fine homes presently rose to our right. Columns and statues breathed their own splendor, with their lawns, pools, and fountains. To our left, the park opened wide, and we caught a glimpse of the completely modern buildings of the Anthropological Museum. On the grounds stands an ancient, 167-ton stone statue of Tlaloc, the Aztec god of rain. As modern as that is ancient, is the architecture of the fountain that plays in the first courts of the museum. Down a canopy-shaded steel column it sparkles some forty-two feet to the pool below. We found a day in this museum much too brief for what we wished to see. One day we left the lower part of the Reforma to visit El Zécalo the center of the Aztec capital for 200 years; later the heart of the Spanish colonial city. Today, Mexico's capital has a population of over five million and there is nothing left of Lake Texcoco, where the Aztecs, being banished by their neighbors, had built their city Tenochtitlan on two islands which they connected with long causeways. When the Spaniards came, the city had been 200 years in building. It had a population of over 300,000 citizens. And from the borders of El Zocalo rose resplendent pyramids, a temple, a palace, and a magnificent altar to the sun god. The Aztecs had filled wicker baskets with earth to develop floating gardens upon which they could raise life-giving plants. For the last sixty years before the Conquistadores arrived, they had dominated almost all the other cultures in their entire country—an incredible feat in terms of foot soldiers who climbed and descended enormously high divides, only to crest still other slopes, and then trail down to sea level again. Tribute came from this extended rule, and when the Spanish arrived, the Aztecs were wealthy in gold and buildings of almost unimaginable magnificence. Mochtezuma II, great-grandson of Mochtezuma I, who united this vast kingdom, bowed to Hernan Cortés without a struggle, thinking that the White God of prophecy had arrived. A year later, in an uprising of his people, he was executed. Meanwhile, the Spanish had commenced the job that left no stone standing of this marvelous array. With the help of Aztec slaves and with the use of Aztec masonry, they built their own structures around El Zécalo, including a large and highly gilded cathedral, and a national palace, the residency of the viceroys. Today, on this square, only one small pit of Aztec stones survives. But, fortunately, the Spanish did not destroy the calendar stone of Hl Zécalo. The Aztecs had worked out a more accurate system for telling time than then existed in Europe. This thirty-ton treasure is now mounted beside a pool in front of the Anthropological Museum. The conjunction of the old with the new is frequently repeated in today's capital. In the Palace of Fine Arts, styled in Mayan, Mixtec, and classical architecture, folk arts are displayed alongside aristocratic regalia once worn by grandees. On the stage that is screened by a 431 JUNE 1966 remarkable glass curtain from Tiffany's, New York, the Folklérico Ballet depicts historic phases of every Mexican province. The rhythms, the singing, and the playing of guitars, and more primitive instruments, all on stage, weave a thrilling spell for the informed spectator. The dancers are costumed in the bright-feathered green of the Aztecs, and in silks and cottons in scarlet, blue, black, white, and gold. The Floating Gardens indicate their own importance when considered in the light of the past. Some fourteen miles southeast of Mexico City, Xochimileo was once the home of Aztec nobles. The language is still spoken in this municipality. The canals are all that remain of former Lake Chalco. Three lakes once all but covered the Valley of Mexico. The Spanish drained them, for during the rainy season Mexico City was often flooded. Drouth ensued, and part of the rich inheritance from Spain are several long, expertly constructed aqueducts, such as the one at Morelia, here shown. But all that is left of the three lakes are the Floating Gardens of Xochimilco—a colorful sight when the "tourist barges," decorated with artificial flowers, are filled. Visitors may reach for the fresh and brilliant carnations offered for sale by Indian women who, with swift, proud strokes, row their dugout canoes alongside the barges in the canals. Unlike the ancient nature of the Gardens is the architecture of University City, also located in a municipality outside Mexico City. Into this astounding complex the university moved in 1952. Today's enrollment exceeds 52,000 students. Every building is faced at least on one: side with mosaics of natural-colored stone, which portray both ancient and modern history. The north and west walls of the tower of the central library are decorated with stone murals by Juan O'Gorman. Still unknown is the history of the religious center at San Juan Teotihuacan, some twenty-nine miles northeast of Mexico City, an area apparently constructed by an unknown people, the Teotihuacanos, at least 1,000 years ago. This zone was later inhabited by the Toltecs; then by the Aztecs. Within a seven-mile square, pyramids and temples once shone resplendent in the bright sunlight, painted in ochre and scarlet. At the end of a two-mile avenue stands the largest structure of its kind known to the Americas, the ancient Pyramid of the Sun. It rises over 200 feet and measures almost 700 feet at its base. The adobe bricks were once faced with volcanic stone and covered with cement. A stairway on the west provides access to five terraces and to the top of the pyramid. The plaza was paved with voleanic stones, and facing one side of the square was the Temple of Quetzalcoatl, the god of the plumed serpent. A pyramidal corridor of this temple is decorated with row upon row of plumed snakes' heads, a common motif among the ancient peoples of this part of the Americas. After 1930 the real democratization of Mexico began. In 1940 the skyscrapers commenced to rise, one of which reached forty-four stories. Today, in this conjunction of the new with the old, one of the most 432 TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR MORELIA AQUEDUCT Built by the Spaniards in 1789, when the city was known as Valodolid. The round arches, made of stone, support the aqueduct for carryin water. EN ROUTE FROM TOLUCA TO MEXICO CITY Leaving the desert plain, we suddenly entered the area of deep canyons and volcanic peaks. PYRAMID OF THE SUN This majestic pyramid, northeast of Mexico City, rising to a height of 216 feet, is composed of five terraces. The upper terrace served as the base for an imposing temple, which has long since been destroyed. BELOW Detail of the plumed serpent head—Quetzalcoati—on a temple which faces the | avenue that leads to the Pyramid of the Sun. MEXICO CITY beautiful cities in the world has taken shape. Off to the southeast on a clear day can be seen the snowy summits of the '"'guardian" volcanoes, Popocatépetl and Ixtacihuatl. Industrialization has produced ever-increasing traffic on the boulevards. Handsome hotels are so crowded that reservations for visitors are necessary, sometimes weeks ahead. And in the heart of the city The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is now permitted to own property and to build chapels. On October 8, 1879, a group of brethren was called by President John Taylor to go to Mexico City. This was in response to the appeal of a man who requested the elders. Moses Thatcher, a leader, assisted especially by James Z. Stewart and Brother Meliton G. Tréjo, a convert who served as interpreter, arrived in Mexico City by way of New Orleans and Vera Cruz. Hight days later, on November 238, 1879, a branch of the Church was organized. In 1889, when the elders were withdrawn from the country owing to the prevailing unrest, the branch had 250 members. In 1901 the mission was reopened under the supervision of John Henry Smith, Anthony W. Ivins, Helaman Pratt, and Ammon M. Tenney. UNIVERSITY OF THE CITY OF MEXICO One of the many dramatic mosaics which face individual buildings in the university complex. JUNE 1966 Before any elder had ever entered Mexico City, a horesback company had penetrated the country from El Paso, Texas. The company left Salt Lake City in 1875. They spent nine months under the stars. Although they had been warned not to go into Mexico, they rode as far as Chihuahua by way of El Paso. And Brother Pratt, being without fear, continued on, to visit the Yaqui Indians in northern Mexico, who — still follow their ancient and primitive ways. In 1913, the elders had to withdraw once more from Mexico City. Brother Pratt corresponded with the Church members and visited the branch in the capital city whenever possible. Today, the Church has a school system comprising several elementary schools, and one high school in Mexico City. Whenever possible, Mexican-born teachers and administrators are appointed. And now, instead of being taught entirely in Spanish, the schools are taught one half in English. The bishops of the wards are Mexicans. In the capital, a stake is organized with several wards. The spirit. Of brotherhood contributes to a highly favorable kind of unity, and so we find a welcome in this city of international culture. THE FLOATING GARDENS OF XOCHIMILCO Tourist-laden, flower-bedecked barges create a gala atmosphere for the ancient canals. festival of the dolls South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Eighth Ward Bazaar @ The "Raggedy Ann Tree" at the left is a peach tree bough sprayed with blue paint and ornamented with colorfully dressed dolls—boy dolls and girl dolls—clown dolls and storybook dolls. Fancy blue dolls hold court at the base of the tree, and others decorate the red "schoolhouses" represented at the left and right in the 'tree picture. A close-up of one of the schoolhouses is illustrated in the righthand picture. Such bright eyes the dolls have, such plentiful hair, such elegant clothes. One hundred twenty "Raggedy Ann" dolls were made for the bazaar, as well as sixty sets of "Ann and Andy." Twice as many dolls could have been sold. Luella W. Finlinson is president of South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society and Myrna J. Giles is president of the Eighth Ward Relief Society. Counselors in the ward are Dorothy B. Neiswender and Lucille B. Cannon, with Jeanne H. Rydalch as work director. 437 antique your plastic flowers Dorothy J. Roberts Transparencies by the author Decorative Designs from the home of Alberta H. Christensen @ 'Voices of silence' — have you not admired them, too in the baroque plastic flower arrangements of the day, muted in tone, gilded and antiqued? Shades of the seventeenth century Flemish masters, and their famous pictures of floral art, are simulated in the oldworld feeling of these modern bouquets. For many of us who did not know of the special process for thus transforming the commonest, even soiled, plastic flowers and foliage, (cloth flowers cannot be used in this process), it is a joy to learn just how simple it can be. With little effort and small expense, plus the joy of creating beauty, these rich-looking home accessories can be possible for all of us by merely dipping each flower in the following manner. In a wide-mouthed can or jar or bottle, combine: 1 cup paint thinner or turpentine 1 cup clear varnish 1 tablespoon dark oak stain 1 tablespoon powdered gold (Venus, medium) Into this solution dip each flower, after bending back an inch or so on the stem end to form a small hook. Stir the mixture between each flower-dipping. Hang each flower upside-down on a line to dripdry till morning. Place papers under the line to catch the drippings. By the next day, colors will be muted by the stain and varnish, and leaves and petals veined and tipped with gold. 438 ANTIQUE YOUR PLASTIC FLOWERS Arrange them by straightening out the stems, cutting them when desired, and pressing them down into styrofoam frogs and placing them in appropriate containers. The process can be varied by substituting oil pigment of any desired shade for the dark oak stain, or by using light oak stain on very light flowers. Monotone effects can be obtained by first spraying the flowers lightly with some shade of paint, before antiquing. In the accompanying illustrations, the yellow arrangement began with two dozen yellow plastic roses, not compatible with the decor. By adding a few other kinds of flowers and then dipping them all in the solution with the dark oak stain and arranging them in an old brass jardiniere, they fit in beautifully with the gray-green walls and gold mirror. The pink roses, in the pewter-colored urn, were added to an uninteresting bouquet of small flowers which had been lightly sprayed with gray paint. When all were dipped and then placed in the colorrelated gray-toned container, they were a delight. The small flowers were first painted with colored oils and a brush, but only became beautiful in the antiquing process. Other colors of powdered gold were used on them, as green-gold and red-gold and pale-gold, though the Venus medium gold seems most satisfactory. These looked well in a crystal bowl! Set on an antique gilded pedestal. Be sure to remove from the house and place in covered garbage cans all cloths and paper used in the process, and do not leave leftover solution uncovered. - i, _— - s. ————. = ~ GARDEN KALEIDOSCOPE Eva Willes Wangsgaard A kaleidoscope landscape in blooms depicted: Last month tulip rainbows and blossoming trees. Today these tenants have been evicted For iris glory and peonies. In crimson and purple and lavender While spicy fragrance informs the senses Where pink petunias, and pansies are. 440 FLOWERING PATHWAY. BALBOA PARK, SAN DIEGO. CALIFORNIA Already the clematis paints the fences TRANSPARENCY BY JOSEF 7 - Enticement for wings of gauze or of feather, Butterfly silent or dragonfly brief, Cloak for a song as warm as June weather, New life in. A nest as small as a leaf. As varied as sunsets, as luscious with color, So great a gift for so little care! What could be lovelier? What could be fuller Of all that is beautiful, real, and rare. TRANSPARENCY BY FREE LANCE PHOTOGRAPHERS GUILD. 441 "Laco HESS. NEAR BARILOCHE, ARGENTINA / JUNE 1966 "HOLIDAY IN RHYME BAZAAR" Monrovia Ward, Pasadena Stake (California) Each booth was cleverly decorated around a particular nursery rhyme, and the sisters who sold the various items were dressed in complementary costumes. The Children's Clothing Department is represented in the picture. Cindy Ball stands at the left (wearing a plaid dress); Marian Pagnella at the right (in green dress). Sister Pagnella made more than fifty articles of clothing for the bazaar. The dolls in the picture are cut from plywood, but they are wearing "real" clothing. Jasmine P. Ballard is president of Pasadena Stake Relief Society; Norma Williamson is president of Monrovia Ward Relief Society, and her counselors are Bonnie Kinch and Nicola Miller. KITCHEN CRAFTS ON DISPLAY Sixth Ward, East Millcreek Stake (Utah) display at work meeting exhibit, Relief Society Annual General Conference 1965 The pasteboard figures at the right are wearing patio (cook) aprons— decorated with fruits, vegetables, and utensils. The gold-colored tablecloth (labeled 'Pot Luck'') which they are holding, is made to match the aprons. The jars displayed in the center of the "Pantry" shelves are candy jars. The pickles, jams, and jellies were made by Relief Society members. The cross-stitch embroidered aprons, plain and fancy, are made of checked materials in delicate pastel colors. Even the tea towels (at the right of the pantry) are gaily trimmed with appliqued flowers and figures. Quata Howells is president of East Millcreek Stake Relief Society. Margene Oborn is the Sixth Ward president; Gayle Kirkham, Work Counselor in the ward, prepared the display for conference. 442 COLORFUL CLOWN ATTENDS "FAMILY NIGHT FUN" BAZAAR Highland Ward, East Ogden Stake (Utah) Red and white aprons are displayed on the branches of Christmas trees (at the right). The baby crib in the background (left) displays baby quilts, pillows, and toys. The red table (front, left) is loaded with popcorn balls. The patch pockets on the clown's suit contained fish pond items and proved to be a delightful innovation to please the children. Lillian Christiansen is president of East Ogden Stake Relief Society; Arlene Flanders is president of Highland Ward Relief Society; her counselors are Maude Wahlquist and Alyce Smith; Athlene Johnson is work meeting leader, and LaVern Buckner served as apron chairman for the bazaar. TRANSPARENCY BY HAL RUMEL a german holiday buffet Carla Sansom @I am going to invite my friends over for a real "gemiitlichen" evening. This is the German way of en. Joying your friends. We will be about twenty to twenty-five people. I have already planned my menu so that I can stock up on what I need to prepare for the event. The menu that I have decided upon will include: Dilly bread, quick sour dough bread, rye bread, stollen and orange raisin bread, string bean salad, red beetherring salad, pineapple-cheese salad with lime jello, fresh cranberry relish, orange cream salad, cucumber salad, shrimp salad, German marble kuchen, cheese cake, butterkuchen, and roast leg of pork. First, I look at my bread list. In Germany, we love a variety of breads. The dilly, the quick sour dough, and the rye, I will bake beforehand and put in the freezer. I have found out that the flavor of bread is far more delicious when it has been frozen. Besides, it is good planning. I won't have to do the baking all at once. (Continued on page 450) Alice P. Willardson @ Do you love to see shining eyes and dancing feet? Then make your little daughter or granddaughter a dress like the one in the picture, with a doll to match. I have made one for Lynnette. Choose your own dress pattern, perhaps one that you already have on hand. Some patterns available in stores include a pattern for the doll, also. Of course, you can buy a doll and dress it. But I am going to make mine. They are so soft and cuddly and completely washable. Draw your pattern for the doll large enough to allow for seams and the third dimension. Cut it out of unbleached white goods. Draw the face and embroider the features so colors will not run or fade. How about blue eyes with black lashes and brows, red lips, and maybe even a dimple? Cut the back to match the front and lay the pieces together, wrong side out. Seam all around except for room to turn the material inside out, and clip the seams diagonally so they won't pull. Stuff the doll with shredded foam and sew up the opening with a blind stitch. Make some hair of fine yarn. (Aren't we lucky that straight hair is now in style.) Measure the strands to the desired length, lay them on a paper and sew down the middle to make the part. Then sew the part to the doll's head. Now you have a baby doll as soft as a pillow. You can make her clothes from scraps of the little girl's dress, so they will match. Mother can wash the doll along with the dress. Just be sure to drip dry the doll. 445 "The Gleaners" by Jean Francois Millet (1814-1875) Louvre Museum, Paris, France Floyd Breinholt Assistant Professor of Art and Education Brigham Young University @ Jean Francois Millet was born at Gruchy, near Greville, France, of a peasant family and loved the earth in its calmest moods. He spent his youth working on the land. He is sometimes counted as a member of the Barbizon (a village in the forest of Fontainebleau, near Paris) group, who were pure landscape painters and discovered the intrinsic loveliness of nature. This painting certainly does not seem revolutionary to us today, but when it was painted, the artists in the academies felt that all dignified paintings should represent dignified personages, usually prominent in government, business, or holy writ. Generally, common working people were placed in paintings only when they were necessary to illustrate subject matter, not as subjects themselves. Jean Francois Millet was somewhat of a revolutionary in this regard. His paintings, of which "The Gleaners"' is one of the best examples, seem to dignify work and the worker. There is nothing here of great and glorious acts or of important characters or deeds, only the simple, honest, down-to-earth feeling of security in the closeness to mother earth. The peasants are not graceful or beautiful, but are solid, deliberate, and placed below the skyline. They seem as if they are part of the earth. The arrangement and carefully planned rhythm and the way they are distributed give a feeling of poise and of solemn dignity. The artist makes the worker and the task of harvesting assume an heroic, wholesome significance. For Latter-day Saint women, "The Gleaners'"' imparts a particular interest, for the pioneer women also were "gleaners in the field." In a single year, from November 1876 to November 1877, the Relief Society sisters, at the request of President Brigham Young, had gleaned against a time of need, more than ten thousand bushels of wheat, and, over the years, the golden grain has become a symbol of thrift and security. Wheat designs form a decorative motif on the Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City. 447 The Three Wise Men Kay Sullivan, Monument Park Stake (Displayed at the work meeting exhibit, Relief Society Annual General Conference 1965) @ Use a paper cone made from poster paper for the body, a piece of wire, (a coat hanger may be used) bent into shape for making shoulders, arms, hands, etc. Attach a separate piece of wire onto the first wire (the curve of the coat hanger may be cut off and inserted into styrofoam egg to make the head.) Be sure the head is in proportion to the body. Take pieces of old sheeting and dip in liquid starch. Drape around the form while the sheeting is still very wet. Take lace, braided cording, dacron batting for the hair, or other decorative trim and dip into the liquid starch, and place on the draped form. It adheres very nicely when completely dry. Any gifts to be placed in the hands should also be attached at this time. After the sheeted figure is completely dry, spray with gold spray (read the label on the can to be sure that the spray can be used with styrofoam). Then decorate with any discarded jewels. 448 M7 eS IK Elsie Meeks Simkins, Circleville, Utah, finds artistic fulfillment and much happiness in her many hobbies — quilting, making pillows of intricate design, and crocheting lace which she describes as ''webby fine."" She has given away numerous lovely articles to friends and relatives, and still has gifts on hand "for the days to come.'' While residing in St. George one winter, she made twentysix aprons in her spare time, after attending two temple sessions daily. She cannot remember the number of quilts she has made for relatives and friends and for Relief Society bazaars. Mrs. Simkins has been active in Relief Society, having served as a visiting teacher for more than fifty-four years. She was a counselor in the first Relief Society organization in Widtsoe, Utah. Now, at the age of eighty-six, she attends Sunday School, sacrament meeting, and Relief Society. She keeps house for herself, does her own washing and ironing, takes care of her yard, and enjoys a daily walk to the Post Office. Her pioneer heritage served her well when she was called, during World War I, to direct a group of women in gathering and storing wheat. Presently, she is writing her life history to add to the records of her Grandfather Priddy Meeks, one of the best-known and most successful pioneer doctors. She is mother to six children, grandmother to twenty-four, great grandmother to thirty-nine, and great-great-grandmother to two. JUNE 1966 German Holiday Buffet (Continued from page 444) Here are the bread recipes: DILLY BREAD Yield: one 1-pound loaf Oven temp. 350°F Container: 114 to 2 qt. Casserole Baking time: 40-50 minutes 1 cake yeast 2 tbsp. Sugar 14 c. Water 1 tbsp. Minced dried onion 1 c. Small-curd creamed cottage cheese 1 tbsp. Melted butter or oil 1% tsp. Dill willow 2 tsp. Dill seed 1 tsp. Salt. 214 - 214 c. Flour 1%, tsp. Soda 1 tbsp. Soft butter 1 unbeaten egg onion salt Procedure: 1. Soften yeast in 14 c. Water. 2. Heat cottage cheese until warm. 3. Place all ingredients in large mixing bowl, mixing the flour in. 4. Knead until well mixed. Let rise 1 hour. 5. Knead down and place in well-greased casserole. Let rise until double— about 1% hour. 6. Bake as directed. 7. Brush with soft butter and sprinkle lightly with onion salt. ALL-PURPOSE MIX (To be used in making the orange-raisin bread) 9 c. Flour (sifted) 1 tbsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Baking powder 14 c. Sugar (double action) 2 c. Shortening Add the baking powder, salt, and sugar into flour. Sift together three times into a large mixing bowl or into a large piece of plain paper. Cut in shortening with a pastry blender or two knives until the mix is the consistency of cornmeal. Store in tightly covered containers at room temperature. To measure the mix, pile it lightly into standard measuring cup and level off with a spatula. ORANGE-RAISIN BREAD Makes 1 loaf Oven temp. 350°F Baking time: 1 hour 14 c. Orange juice 1 tsp. Vanilla rind of orange 2 c. All-purpose mix 1 c. Raisins 14 c. Sugar 1 egg, well-beaten 14 tsp. Soda 1% c. Milk 1 eight-ounce pkg. Cream cheese Squeeze juice from orange and measure 14 cup. Remove most of the white membrane from orange peel. Grind peel in a food chopper, with raisins, using coarse blade. Add orange juice to the raisin and orange rind mixture and stir together. Add beaten egg, milk, and vanilla to the combined orange juice, raisin, and orange rind mixture, and stir until blended. Add the liquid mixture to the dry ingredients and mix well. Bake in a greased loaf pan, 9x5x3"', in a moderate oven (350°F). When cool, slice bread thin and spread with cream cheese. Slices can be placed together in sandwich style or left open faced. 450 RYE BREAD Makes 2 loaves Oven temp. 400°F Baking time: 35 minutes 2 c. Warm water YA c. Dark molasses 2 pkqs. Dry yeast 414 c. White flour 14 c. Vegetable oil ~ 2c. Rye flour 2 tbsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Caraway seeds Put water in large, warm bowl. Sprinkle in yeast; stir to dissolve. Add molasses, salt, and oil. Add 3 c. Flour; beat well. Work in remaining flour to form soft dough. Turn dough onto lightly floured board. Knead until smooth and elastic, 8 to 10 minutes. Form into smooth ball. Place in greased bowl; brush top with oil. Cover and let rise in warm place until doubled, about 45 minutes. Punch down. Divide into two equa! Portions. Flatten dough into strip. Holding ends of strip, alternately slap and stretch until double the length of pan. Bring ends of strip to center, overlapping slightly. Flatten dough to even thickness. Make lengthwise indentation through center of dough with edge of hand. Fold both edges to center; seal by pinching. Roll foaf gently back and forth to smooth. Place loaves with seams on bottom in two greased 9''x5''x3"' loaf pans. Brush tops with oil, sprinkle caraway seeds on top. Cover; let rise until doubled. Bake as directed. STOLLEN Makes 2 large loaves Oven temp. 350°F Baking time: 35 minutes 1 c. Seedless raisins 14 c. Very warm water 1 c. Mixed, chopped candied fruits 2 eggs, beaten 14 c. Orange juice 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind 34, c. Whipping cream 5 c. Sifted white flour Y% c. Sugar 1 c. Chopped blanched almonds 1 tsp. Salt 1%, tsp. Nutmeg 1 c. (2 sticks) butter 2 tbsp. Cinnamon and sugar mixture 2 pkgs. Dry yeast 1. Combine raisins, candied fruits, and orange juice in a small bowl. 2. Scald cream with sugar, salt, and 14 c. (1 stick) butter; cool to lukewarm. Sprinkle or crumble yeast into very warm water in a large bowl. Stir until yeast dissolves, then stir in cooled cream mixture, eggs, and lemon rind. 3. Beat in 2 c. Flour until smooth; stir in fruit mixture, almonds, and nutmeg, then beat in just enough of remaining 3 c. Flour to make a stiff dough. Knead until smooth and elastic on a lightly floured pastry cloth or board, adding only enough flour to keep dough from sticking. 4. Place in a greased large bowl; cover with a clean towel. Let rise in a warm place, away from draft, 2 hours, or until double in bulk. 5. Punch dough down and knead a few times; divide in half. Roll each half into an oval, 15''x9"'; place on a greased large cookie sheet. Melt remaining 14 c. Butter in a small saucepan; brush part over each oval; sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar mixture; fold in half lengthwise. Cover; let rise again 1 hour, or until double in bulk. Brush again with part of the remaining melted butter or margarine. 6. Bake in moderate oven (350°F) 35 minutes. While hot, brush with remaining butter. Cool. 451 JUNE 1966 QUICK SOUR DOUGH BREAD (made without a start) Makes 3 average-sized loaves Oven temp. 375°F Baking time: 30 minutes Combine in saucepan: 1 qt. Tart buttermilk 2 tbsp. Salt 6 tbsp. Shortening Bring to the steam heat only, then cool. In a 2-c. Measuring cup, combine: 2 pkqs. Dry yeast 5 tbsp. Sugar 14 c. Warm water 'By the time buttermilk is thoroughly cooled, the yeast mixtures will have grown enough to add to milk mixture. After mixing together, gradually add 10 c. Flour to give a workable dough. Put dough on a floured board. Knead 10 minutes. Let rise in original dough pan (saucepan) for 45 minutes. At the end of this time, punch dough down. Divide into 3 equal loaves and fit into 3 greased bread pans. Let rise again for 45 minutes. Bake as directed. Turn out immediately and cool on rack. (Brush with soft butter.) Sour dough bread is soft and pliable. You might enjoy pulling the loaves apart for eating, instead of slicing. (To be continued in the July Magazine) ne Our Special Garden wee Helen M. Peterson ty Ae. Ty FINS "Marriage is not a bed of roses!" I often heard my aunt say. "It is a garden filled with weeds and thorns!" I was only a child and could not comprehend the meaning of her words, but, somehow, they lived in my memory. When I grew up and was about to be married, those words mirrored before me again, and again. I found myself observing many married couples, and occasionally I'd get an inkling of what my aunt meant. But, it was not until after I was married that the true meaning of her words rang clear and meaningful. The first time my loved one and I had a misunderstanding, I thought the world would come to an end. When we showed signs of being inconsiderate of each other; when jealousy and selfishness appeared; when we spoke unkind words to each other—then I could see the weeds and thorns choking out the beauty in our "garden of love." It was then that I decided that we must make our garden a special garden, and we would have to give it special care. For twenty-five years now, my husband and I have worked hard trying to be good gardeners. We keep chopping the weeds away, and we take great care not to let the thorns grow long and sharp so that when they penetrate the flesh they become imbedded. I cannot say we have always kept our garden weed free, but by putting forth great effort and working continuously to beautify our garden, we manage to keep the flowers growing and we are able to enjoy many, many beautiful blossoms. 452 ere "rom ae FIELD Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. He 'Goer ' Pil A H t; 4 \ | \ 2 aw A a m. Ok | Idaho Stake, Bancroft Ward Spring Style Show March 17, 1966 Second row, at the right: Marie Gamble, narrator; second from the right: Virginia Butterfield, President, Bancroft Ward Relief Society; fourth from the left: Elnora Maughan, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, at the left: Lois Rindlisbaker, who directed the fashion show, in cooperation with Karen Modersitski, who stands at the right in the back row; Second Counselor Hortense Yost, fourth from the left in the back row. Arlene Torgensen, President, Idaho Stake Relief Society, reports: "The spring style show was a combination of three workshops which were completed in the Bancroft Ward in 1966. The style show was presented at the anniversary party. The sewing classes were given in January, February, and March, with fifty articles being made, and twenty women participating. The fathers of the children in the front row were very pleased and appreciative of the accomplishments of their wives." 453 Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Anniversary Party — "A Day of Honors" March 17, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Faye Larson, Counselor, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Marie Heywood, Counselor; Helen Means, Secretary-Treasurer; Myreel Lewis, literature class leader, Ajo Ward; Ora Bybee, visiting teacher message leader, Phoenix Stake Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Blanche Burr, literature class leader, Sixth Ward, also first place winner in Phoenix Stake short story contest; Ethel Lillywhite, second place winner in short story contest; Evelyn Smith, visiting teacher message leader in Ajo Ward, also a participant in the short story contest; Ruth Jackson, Counselor, Ajo Ward; Emily Barnes, social science class leader in Phoenix Stake Relief Society; Olene Trembath, President, Ajo Ward Relief Society; Francelle Decker, stake Magazine representative; Sybil Udall, stake literature class leader; Thelma Allen, chorister, Ajo Ward; Rowena Root, stake chorister; Leora Jay, Counselor, Ajo Ward. Sister Means reports: "Members of the stake board wore pioneer costumes, and the Ajo Ward Relief Society officers and teachers, from 125 miles away, also came in appropriate costumes, thus being honored to be in the picture. As last year's birthday party was a climax to the stake poetry contest, so this year was dedicated to the winners in the short story contest. Their names were announced, and each sister was presented with a book of short stories. All participants were honored and presented with appropriate certificates. "Appreciation for the opportunity and benefits derived from participation in the contest were expressed by the sisters. "A very clever program titled 'It All Began With Eve,' was written and presented by Sybil Udall. The highlight of the program was a surprise 'Honor Day' for President Ruth Stapley. Her family also surprised her by attending and honoring her. A history of her life was read by Ina Price, which related a life of love and dedication to the Church, and her wonderful talent for leadership, this being the eighteenth year of her Relief Society service, five as ward president and thirteen as stake president. "A lovely orchid corsage was presented each member of the stake presidency by the ward presidencies. A delightful luncheon followed the program, served by members of the stake board." 4S4 Juarez Stake (Mexico) Honors First Four Relief Society Presidents at Anniversary Party March 17, 1966 Seated, left to right: Nelle S. Romney, President, Juarez Ward Relief Society; Maria Maza, Dublan Second Ward social science class leader; Nelle S. Hatch, a former president of Juarez Stake Relief Society; Eva Skousen, who read the tribute to Fannie C. Harper. Standing, left to right: Nilus S. Memmott, who read the tribute to her mother Mary Olive B. Stowell; Elena Ontiveros, Damiana Burgos, and Tomasa Areola, who read the tributes in Spanish. Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports: "On the 17th of March, the Juarez Stake Relief Society celebrated the anniversary of Relief Society by honoring the first four presidents of the Juarez Stake Relief Society, which was organized in 1895, having the fourth president Nelle S. Hatch, who had served twenty-one years (1929-1950) as honored guest. The theme was 'Building a Firm Foundation.' "In our stake we have both Spanish-speaking and English-speaking wards. The program was given in English by English-speaking sisters, and in Spanish by Spanish-speaking sisters, the programs alternating with demonstrations of work meeting activities, after which all met together for refreshments. The four presidents being honored were: Mary B. Eyring, Mary Olive B. Stowell, Fannie C. Harper, and Nelle S. Hatch. A skit depicting an incident on a visit of Sister Hatch to the mountain colonies was given, being written and directed by Florienne F. Taylor, the literature class leader of Juarez Ward Relief Society, after which Sister Hatch gave her own testimony. A group of Singing Mothers from Dublan Ward rendered two beautiful numbers during the program. The skit was written in Spanish and directed by Maria Maza, and the Juarez Second Ward furnished beautiful music for this program. "Marza Hatch, a daughter-in-law of Nelle Hatch, was largely responsible for gathering the material used in the program, which she and the stake secretarytreasurer planned and organized. The work meeting activities were under the direction of Reta B. Clark, stake Work Director Counselor, and consisted of flower making from bolillos (Mexican rolls), as well as from paper. Rinda A. Robinson, stake Education Counselor, and June H. Hollie, stake literature leader, were responsible for the dainty refreshments. Decorations were made by Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, and Willa T. Wagener, social science class leader." 455 JUNE 1966 Millard Stake (Utah), Holden Ward Achieves A One Hundred Per Cent Visiting Teaching Record for Eighteen Years Blanche George, President, Millard Stake Relief Society, reports: "January 1966 marks the eighteenth year of one hundred per cent visiting teaching for the Holden Ward. This record started in 1948, under Relief Society President Louise Stevens, and continued under the leadership of Hazel Harmon, Hattie Stephenson, Ramona Kenney, Beth Crosland, Marjorie Stevens, and Virginia Wood. "There are fourteen districts in Holden Ward, with twenty-eight visiting teachers and five alternates." The picture was taken March 1, 1966. Guatemala-E! Salvador Mission Relief Society '"'Cosas de la Casa" Exhibition and Demonstration December 1965 Left to right: Berta B. Lépez; Betty Layton; Carmen G. O'Donnal, Assistant to the Supervisor, Guatemala-E] Salvador Mission Relief Society; Marina D. Oliva, President, Mission Relief Society; Glenna M. Hansen, Supervisor, Guatemala-El Salvador Mission Relief Society; Hortensia Torres, President, Guatemala District Relief Society; Edith de Mata. Teresa de Alfaro and Lidia de Gémez, members of the board, were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Hansen reports: "Culminating the effort and preparation of several months, were the demonstration and exhibition programs — 'Cosas de la Casa' — given by the sisters of the Relief Society Mission Board throughout the districts of the Guatemala-El Salvador Mission. Many new, creative, and useful articles for the home were made for the exhibition and displayed on large tables in a U-shape in the various cultural halls. How to make each item was demonstrated during the afternoon to all those present. Booklets were prepared, containing patterns, illustrations, and directions for making the articles which were demonstrated. Each branch received a booklet for future use on work days, and many sisters bought additional copies for their own personal use. The hostess district at each program decorated the salons with large bouquets of colorful tropical flowers, and served refreshments to all who attended. The members of the Relief Society throughout the mission were very enthusiastic and interested in the many useful articles presented. Later, it was most gratifying to the Mission Board members to see many of these items well made by the branches, and offered for sale at their local and district bazaars." South Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Presents Dramatization "You Are There' at Leadership Meeting March 6, 1966 Seated in front, left to right: Vida B. Hooper, First Counselor; LaVern H. Daniels, President; Susie B. Jensen, Second Counselor; Ruth C. Madsen, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, standing, left to right, board members: Reva F. Bell; Beth W. Nordgren; Wietta J. Mills; Melba O. Beck; Ercel A. Olsen; Carol S. Lemon; Grace J. Owens; Betty G. Hansen. Sister Daniels reports: "The members of the South Sevier Stake Relief Society Board dramatized the organization of Relief Society in-a play entitled 'You Are There,' at their leadership meeting March 6, 1966. There are seven wards in the stake, each one functioning successfully. Following the stake presentation, a number of the wards presented the play for their membership. The stake board is also sponsoring a poetry contest to which the sisters are responding with enthusiasm." 456 Vay Ware & JUNE 1966 Midvale Stake (Utah), Midvale Third Ward Relief Society Presents Quilt to Former Stake President and Wife Myrtle Troester, who made the quilt, stands at the left in the picture; former stake president Reed H. Beckstead stands at the right with his wife Melissa. Blanche Sager, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Many long hours of devoted work were donated by Myrtle Troester, Midvale Third Ward work meeting leader in completing this lovely quilt. It was Sister Troester's desire that each stitch be perfect. The design is a combination of applique work and embroidery. The quilt was presented by Midvale Third Ward Relief Society to former stake president Reed H. Beckstead and Sister Melissa Beckstead. It was given to show love and appreciation for sixteen and a half years of faithful and devoted service in Midvale Stake. The officers of Midvale Third Ward Relief Society are: President Beverly Brown; First Counselor Zina Olson; Second Counselor Ramona Peterson." San Juan Stake (Utah), Monticello Ward Holds Successful Bazaar November 12, 1965 Ruth J. Nielson, President, San Juan Stake Relief Society, reports: "Much ingenuity and imagination, as well as hard work, went into the preparation and planning of the Monticello Ward Relief Society bazaar. The theme was 'Dish Towel City,' and as the sisters entered the room, they were greeted by the sight of a series of colorful and decorative displays, such as 'Apron Villa,' 'Pillowcase Junction,' and 'Jack and Jill Land.' Also, there was a candy and bake shop, carrying many attractively arranged 'goodies.' The children were not forgotten, either, for in one corner a colorful fishpond attracted the children. ' "A delicious home-cooked dinner of roast beef was served to approximately 230. Table decorations were appropriate for the season, with strutting turkeys, and Pilgrims adorning the tables." Bevery Thacker is president of Monticello Ward Relief Society. Mt. Olympus Stake (Utah), East Millcreek Eighth Ward "Our Heritage' Anniversary Party March 15, 1966 Left to right: Ruby Richards, as President Belle S. Spafford; Rula Hill, as Amy Brown Lyman; Rosa Fankauser, as Louise Y. Robison; Helen Richards, as Clarissa S. Williams; Belva Ashton, as Emma Smith; Bernis Mihlberger, as Eliza R. Snow; Thelma Fetzer, as Emmeline B. Wells; Zola Andrus, as Bathsheba W. Smith; Marilyn Taylor, as Zina D. Young. Jelaire Simpson, President, Mt. Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the direction of Thelda Papenfuss, President, Eighth Ward Relief Society, and her Counselors Hilda Allredge and Earlena Kimball, a lovely birthday party was enjoyed on March 15, 1966. A large book entitled 'Our Heritage' was opened to reveal each former General President of Relief Society. The original script was written by Ruth Glick and Eleanor Jones. Appropriate musical numbers were used to highlight the program. 'Mrs. America' (Alice Buehner), a former counselor of this ward, was also honored. The luncheon tables were decorated to suggest each month of the year. Each sister found her own birthday table. The true spirit of Relief Society prevailed, and each sister felt thankful for the guidance our organization has received throughout the years." 458 = aw NEW TITLES FOR LESSON COURSES In harmony with the Correlation Program, the lessons for the coming year are being written so they may be presented in such a way that every sister at Relief Society will become involved in the discussion. The titles of the courses, beginning in October 1966, reflect this new concept of involvement. Theology is now called 'Spiritual Living"; Work Meeting — "Homemaking"; Social Science "Social Relations," and Literature has taken on a new depth and becomes "Cultural Refinement." SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Elder Roy W. Doxey @ We learn from the revelations to be studied this year that, during the summer of 1833 and into the winter of 1834, persecution against the saints began in Jackson County, Missouri, and culminated in their expulsion into other counties of that State. Despite the hatred shown to the members of the Church, they were counseled to use proper legal means to bring about the restitution of their lands. The saints were again counseled through the teachings of the Savior that one should forgive his enemies. Before persecution began in July 1833, the Lord gave some revelations containing many great truths of the gospel. The first 460 revelation for study this year is Section 93 which was received in May 1833. This revelation contains the important truth that in order to worship in truth it is necessary to know what one should worship. John the Revelator's testimony of Christ, recorded in Section 93, provides sufficient information about the Savior to convince men of his divinity. The summary of John's testimony in this first lesson helps one to realize that our Elder Brother is, in reality, the Son of God. In this same revelation information is given whereby the Latter-day Saint woman may know her true relationship to the Savior and her Eternal Father. The knowledge that man existed preearthly gives the answer to many questions which arise about the purpose of this earth-experience, and the environment in which man lives. The tremendous advantage to a woman of the Church in knowing that she lived before her earthly birth and that she brings to this life characteristics from that world, together with an understanding of her innocence as she began the earthlife, furnishes information which can serve as a guideline throughout her existence. A lesson considers the many facets of this subject that have buoyed up members of the Church during persecution, afflictions, and other vicissitudes of life. From Section 93, the Latterday Saint woman is also enlightened on the great importance of knowing how light and truth may become a part of her life. An important part of this knowledge are the criteria by which she may differentiate between truth and error. Members of the Church know that the Constitution of the United States is a divinely inspired document which set up a government under which the gospel could be restored. A lesson this year is concerned with its LESSON DEPARTMENT origin and its major provisions that give men an opportunity to exercise their free agency. After a woman has accepted the gospel or when, after baptism as a young person, she realizes the true importance of the gospel, she begins to consider how she can best achieve the goals set forth in the plan of salvation. Some of the principles by which one may become a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ are enumerated in a lesson this year. A subject which intrigues the Latter-day Saint is the millennial reign of the Lord. Certainly the imminence of the Lord's coming which ushers in the millennium and the peaceful, happy conditions that will prevail during that time, are the earnest desires of every Latter-day Saint woman. Hope, encouragement, and enlightenment fill the breast of the Latter-day Saint woman who looks with faith to that millennial day. The saints had been driven from the center place of Zion, but despite this treatment, they were given the assurance, known to us today, that God's work will triumph. One of the great prophecies made by Joseph Smith, but little known, is discussed in the concluding lesson of the year. The 1966-67 series of Spiritual Living lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 73—John''s Testimony of Jesus (D&C 93:1-20) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the necessity for a knowledge of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer. Lesson 74—Pre-Earth Life (D&C 93:21-23, 27-29, 33-34) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman receives added strength for daily living from enlightenment on the purpose of earth life. 461 JUNE 1966 Lesson 75—Light and Truth (D&C 93:24-26, 30-53) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman molds her life in accordance with revealed truth. Lesson 76—How to Act Amid Persecution (D&C 97; 98:23-48) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman withstands persecution in a spirit of understanding and forgiveness. Lesson 77—A Divine Document Prepares the Way for the Restoration of the Gospel (D&C 98:1-22; 101: 76-80) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the Lord's purposes in establishing the Constitution of the United States. Lesson 78—Discipleship (D&C, Section 100) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is comforted to know that al! Things work together for good for those who are righteous, and thereby she becomes a true disciple of the Lord. Lesson 79—The Millennium (D&C 101: 23-42) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman makes individual preparation for participation during the millennial reign. Lesson 80— The Eventual Triumph of God's Work (D&C 101: 43-75; 103) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks through obedience and diligence to share in the eventual triumph of God's work. VISITING TEACHING MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Messages for 1966-67 Alice Colton Smith @ In 1833, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was three years old and was growing rapidly. Although it was already harrassed by persecutions, hope and faith were strong because the Lord spoke often to the saints through his Prophet Joseph Smith. By constant guidance, admonitions, and many expressions of love and support, he directed the restored Church. In less than a year, Sections 93 through 103 were revealed. From these, we 462 draw our visiting teacher messages for 1966-67. Through these sections the Lord opened up a vista of eternity that fills one with awe, courage, hope, and great joy. One is astonished by the truths revealed and the promises made. God's plan, as it was unfolded to man, was beyond any previous expectation. Man was to assist in the work of the Lord. Together they would bring to pass an amazing future. Man was to be courageous, believing, and to rear his children in light and truth. He was to work, worship, pray, study, and follow the Lord. God would, then, pour out his Spirit upon all flesh. Through this powerful combination of truly dedicated Latter-day Saints and the outpouring of the Spirit, all the world would be blessed. One hundred and thirty-three years later, man reviews the results with reverential awe and gratitude. The gospel is being spread throughout the world by technical means that would have seemed miraculous in 1833. There are almost unbelievable developments in every area of man's life. LESSON DEPARTMENT Scholars remind us that man has made more technological progress in the last fifty years than in all previously recorded history. The Lord truly has poured out his Spirit upon all flesh. As we study the unfolding and fulfillment of these great prophetic beginnings, we should be comforted, joyful, and thankful. As we understand and apply the messages the visiting teachers will present this year, we should grow more studious, forgiving, repentant, grateful, hopeful, courageous, cooperative, and loving. We should rear our children well and be an example to our households and to the world. The following are the 1966-67 Visiting Teacher Messages and their objectives: Message 73—''But | Have Commanded You to Bring up Your Children in Light and Truth' (D&C 93:40). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To provide an atmosphere in the home for spiritual learning experiences. Message 74—''Fear Not, Let Your Hearts Be Comforted; Yea, Rejoice Evermore, and in Everything Give Thanks" (D&C 98:1). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To be joyful and cultivate gratitude and courage. Message 75—''Obtain a Knowledge of History, and of Countries, and of Kingdoms, of Laws cf God and Man, and All This for the Salvation of Zion'? (D&C 93:53). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To help us realize the importance of continued study by ourselves and our children. Message 76—''Ask and Ye Shall Receive' (D&C 103:35). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show that all man receives requires his effort as well as God's help. Message 77—''Let Your Hearts Be Comforted: for All Things Shall Work Together for Good to Them That Walk Uprightly" (D&C 100:15). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To understand that all life experiences will work for good to the righteous. 463 JUNE 1966 Message 78—''For If You Keep My Commandments You Shall Receive of His Fulness, and Be Glorified in Me As | Am in the Father' (D&C 93:20). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To realize that through obedience the promises of God to man are limitless. Message 79—''As Oft As Thine Enemy Repenteth of the Trespass.... Thou Shalt Forgive Him, Until Seventy Times Seven'' (D&C 98:40). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To teach that we should never withhold forgiveness. Message 80—"'All Victory and Glory Is Brought to Pass Unto You Through Your Diligence, Faithfulness, and Prayers of Faith'' (D&C 103:36). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To learn that achievement requires personal effort and faith. HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Preview of Homemaking Discussions for 1966-67 Celestia J. Taylor The discussions for 1966-67 are a continuation of the course ''Development Through Homemaking Education.'' The purpose of this course is to inspire, to uplift, and to assist the sisters in acquiring homemaking skills. It is expected that many of the techniques in the field of homemaking will be explained and demonstrated in order to help the Latter-day Saint woman make her home beautiful and to increase her desire to excel in the art of homemaking. The discussions for October, November, and December 1966, were written by Hazel S. Cannon. Beginning in January 1967, the discussions will be written by Celestia J. Taylor, a member of the General Board of Relief Society. M What a world of difference exists between a home where there is order and one where there is a disregard for it! This difference lies not alone in the appearance which an_ orderly house presents, but it lies, also, in the spirit which it engenders in those who live in the home and in those who merely observe it. A house in which are observed the simple rules of order and cleanliness gives to its occupants a feeling of well-being and pride of possession, and to its observers a feeling of admiration and respect, while a slovenly, poorly kept house may be conducive to 464 a spirit of dejection and, even, of contention. The husband who comes from his work to a home where order prevails finds rejuvenation to his spirit and refreshment to his soul. One who returns to a house of disorder and confusion finds no respite nor solace from his labors. The same is true of the effects of these respective homes upon a child. - In an age of conflicting ideologies in every avenue of life— political, social, educational, and even religious—it is comforting to know that emphasis is being centered in the home as a sta- bilizing force. Give the statesman his oratory, the crusader his cause, the soldier his weapon, and the world can still be in turmoil; but give a woman her dust mop and a good stiff broom and she can sweep the world clean of its troubles.. This is just another way of saying that the strongest defense of any nation is its homes. When there is 'order in the home, there is discipline in the individual; and when there is discipline in the individual, there is order, integrity, and solidarity in the nation. The scriptures tell us that we are to put our houses in order. As a commandment as well as a safeguard, the maintaining of our homes in order and peace is LESSON DEPARTMENT paramount in importance. It should be the vital concern of all of us who are engaged in this great and world-wide business of homemaking. Whether we live in the countries of Europe, on the islands of the sea, in the Americas, or anywhere else in this wonderful world of ours, Latterday Saint women are all working toward the same goal—orderly homes which are conducive to peace and happiness, now and eternally. The purpose of the Homemaking Discussions for January to October 1967 is to give us practical instruction in the skills and procedures which will help us to bring about and maintain order in our homes and, consequently, in our lives. The titles and objectives of the discussions by Hazel S. Cannon are as follows: Discussion 10—Put Sparkle in Your Meals Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To show how the homemaker can plan, prepare, and serve nutritious and appetizing family meals. Discussion 11—Extending Homey Hospitality Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To discuss the joy which can come to a homemaker and her family through extending hospitality, and to show the role of food in entertaining. Discussion 12—A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To summarize how the homemaker and her family can benefit through homemaking education and to reemphasize the objectives of the past year. The titles and objectives of the discussions by Celestia J. Taylor are as follows: Discussion 13—Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show how a budget sets up guidelines which help solve financial problems. Discussion 14—Budgeting for Young Married Couples and for Retired Couples Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 465 JUNE 1966 Objective: To show that wise financial planning ts helpful in all circumstances for all age groups. Discussion 15—Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To explain that credit wisely used can be a tool in assisting family income, but it can be a hazard to family happiness if over-extended. Discussion 16—Keeping Records Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show the importance of keeping home management records. Discussion 17—Project Thrift Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To show that through careful planning and knowledgeable buying, a family can be clothed attractively with a limited budget. SUMMER MONTHS Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: June, July, August, September 1967 Southern Hemisphere: November, December, 1967, January, Objective: To teach sewing skills. February 1968 SOCIAL RELATIONS Teaching the Gospel in the Home Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Alberta H. Christensen @ The Relief Society course given at the third meeting of the month, will now be known as the Social Relations course. As the title implies, the lessons will continue to be concerned with human relationships that originate in the home and extend into areas of Church and community living. An important goal of these Relief Society lessons entitled "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" has been and continues to be the improvement of these relationships. Many of the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons have been directed toward bettering human relationships, and special emphasis, in some areas of the lessons, has been placed upon the husband-wife relationships. Sug- 466 gestions have been offered to help the father understand the desires, aspirations, and emotional needs of his wife and children. The Social Relations lessons will continue to correlate with the lessons currently being studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood. In general, they will present the position of the woman in relation to those subjects with which they correlate. The objective will continue to be, through discussion and application, a cooperation and understanding that will result in more abundant living by Latter-day Saint families. Love and understanding not only enrich the lives of all family members, but may inject an element of good will into all other human relationships. Understanding and good will toward others are much needed in today's world of stress, skepticism, and mistrust. Lesson 6 (Lesson 18 in the Series), is entitled "That All May Learn." We have been specifically admonished to teach one another the 'doctrine of the kingdom." Since the impact of words and the power of example are vitally important in the learning process, it is obvious that teaching may be accomplished in a number of different ways. That Latter-day Saint women may become aware of the means by which they may fulfill their role in accomplishing this divine admonition, is the central theme of the lesson; that they may be motivated to utilize these means, is the lesson objective. It has been an objective in the correlating Relief Society lessons and, specifically emphasized in lesson seven "The Sensitive Line," to remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband, and in being sensitive to other human relationships. A woman's inherent sensitivity may lead her to a more gracious acceptance of a gift, whether it be a tangible article, or the less tangible but far more important gift of love and understanding. Relevant to the subject is the scripture "For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?" (D&C 88:33). "From Virtue to Virtue" is the title of lesson eight, the final lesson for the year 1966. This lesson LESSON DEPARTMENT points out that we attain perfection by progressing spiritually, from grace to grace. As our faith deepens, we become more perceptive to things of the spirit; as our spirituality is increased, our faith is strengthened, becoming more positive as a guiding influence in our lives. The Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1967, "On Earth and in Heaven," will be concerned with various aspects of law. As it relates to the Priesthood bearer's position in the home, the Church, and the community. The remaining five Relief Society lessons of the 1966-67 Social Relations course will correlate with aspects of this proposed course of study. Means to promote thought involvement and verbal participation on the part of class members will be used, such as scriptural quotations, a conversation, a wellphrased question, a socio-drama, or a provocative statement, case stories, etc. If the class leader is imaginative, and uses these realistic illustrations wisely, she can add variety and interest to the class period and, through participation, to the individual class member, who will become: a partner in resolving some problem situations common to most of us. A case study often may cut deep into the core of a problem, revealing various aspects of a situation which would not be observed in a mere telling of the incident. Class members may thus be led to see more easily and to evaluate more wisely, their own similar situations. Lesson 6 (Lesson 18 in Series)—That All May Learn Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 467 JUNE 1966 Objective: To motivate Latter-day Saint women to fulfill their role in teaching one another ''all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God." Lesson 7 (Lesson 19 in Series)—The Sensitive Line Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband, and in being sensitive to other human relationships. Lesson 8 (Lesson 20 in Series)—From Virtue to Virtue Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To point out that we attain perfection by progressing spiritually, from virtue to virtue. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Textbook: Out of the Best Books Volume II: Home and the Family by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Preview of Lessons—1966-67 Elder Robert K. Thomas ™@ The experience of the last two years, during which literary lessons have been taken from material selected and published for the Relief Society, has proven so successful that a second book has been authorized. As the first volume focused on developing individual values, the second will center upon home and family. The principal objective of this course is the presentation of cultural and fine arts which will reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Relief Society sister, that she may realize a cultural wholeness that will, in turn, be radiated in her home and benefit all members of her family. Although it is understood that the selection of cultural material will be in the area of Home and Family, the focus of this course of study during the next two years will be beamed toward the 468 growth and refinement of the individual woman. The critical approaches which were detailed in the first volume of Out of the Best Books will continue to be used, for their base is broadly cultural, and they are therefore appropriate to any artistic medium. Emphasis will still need to be given to literature, however, since not all lessons can be supported meaningfully by examples from the other fine arts. In response to repeated questions, the discussions which follow the selections in Volume II will go beyond providing necessary biographical information and brief critical analysis. As part of each section, if not always as part of every selection, there will be an attempt to suggest some vital issues which the material raises. Questions which may be used in class—or which may simply spark reader interest— will be part of the text. This is not to keep the anthology from speaking for itself. Class leaders and class members will surely be free to react individually, but directions can aid the inexperienced without coercing the expert. Each lesson will be centered around a desirable womanly attribute. Supporting material will attempt to illuminate each concept. In the first lesson, for instance, a series of selections will illustrate problems and possibilities in developing understanding. The special contribution of women to such development will be stressed, while, at the same time, keeping our concern family-wide. It is hoped that this approach may help Relief Society members appreciate the unique ability of culture to provide vicarious exLESSON DEPARTMENT perience and, thereby, give additional richness and depth to life. If all problems are finally theological, culture yet serves to sharpen our sensitivity, enlarge our sympathy, and refine our perception. In a very special and attractive sense it helps us to see the implications of our beliefs. When the Lord states, in Section 38 of the Doctrine and Covenants, that if we are not "one" we are not his, the context makes it clear that something more than unity of thought and purpose is intended. For the brief parable which precedes this statement stresses the necessity for completeness as well as harmony. Culture is a catalyst which aids us in achieving such wholeness. Lesson titles and objectives for the year 1966-67 are as follows: Lesson 1—A Candle of Understanding "Light a candle of understanding in thine heart.'' 2 Esdras Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: A woman of understanding tempers knowledge with compassion and sympathy with sensitivity. Lesson 2—Refinement Creates Beauty "Refinement creates beauty everywhere.'' William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: A refined woman gives her home a sense of physical well-being and spiritual grace. Lesson 3—Humility Yields Strength "Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights.'' Henry David Thoreau Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: As she is teachable, a woman is able to help others become receptive to the inner strengths of meekness and gentility. Lesson 4—Time for Courtesy "There is always time for courtesy.'' Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: A woman should be respectful and considerate of other people at all times, but not to the point of compromising her own integrity or standards. Lesson 5—Diligence Ennobles Work "All things are won by diligence.'' Menander Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: In her own diligence a woman can help others appreciate the virtues which ennoble work. 469 JUNE 1966 Lesson 6—Virtue Nourishes the Soul "Virtue is the health of the soul." Joseph Joubert Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To show the beauty and truth of the statement 'Virtue is the health of the soul." Lesson 7—Charity Out of a Pure Heart "The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart.'' New Testament: Timothy 1:5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: Charity, or the pure love of Christ, distinguishes those who give—and those who receive—graciously. ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight Cultural Refinement (literature) lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each English-speaking stake and mission use the eighth Cultural Refinement (literature) lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. Where the ward or branch class leader has not been able to present all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, she may also bring an unused selection from the text into her lesson. SUMMER AND SLEEPING BAGS Mabel Jones Gabbott Tonight, with summer all about me, cool Crushed grass smell, relentless cricket song, And quiet talk of pebbled brook along The neighbor's field, | look up in the pool Of spaceless depths, where worlds upon worlds throng A universe, more than mind can tell; Immensity presses on my well Of green. Beside me undisturbed the long Sweet breathing of my son recalls a night Of summer stars above two poplar trees And my own childhood questionings that might Have paralleled his thoughts tonight. Were these The same stars that watched then? How very far From pebbled brooks and grass to where they are. Note:; B Alice Colton Smith, Logan, Utah, author of the Visiting Teacher Messages "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," beginning in October 1966, has been a member of the General Board of Relief Society since 1964 and has served on the spiritual living and foreign publications committees. She is a daughter of former Congressman from Utah Don B. Colton and Grace Stringham Colton, and the wife of J. Whitney Smith. A son Philip is attending Stanford University and daughter Carolyn C. Moody lives in Logan. Another daughter Annette C. Smith is deceased. Sister Smith has a Master's degree in sociology from Utah State University, where she is an assistant professor in that department. She has studied also at the University of Utah, Columbia University, and George Washington University. While her husband was on the staff of the American Embassy in Israel, Sister Smith was asked to be chairman of the Embassy Committee on IsraelAmerican relations. During 1958- 60, she was a member of the Utah 'State Textbook and Curriculum Commission. In Relief Society work, Sister Smith has served as literature and social science class leader, and as a branch president. She was president of the Austrian Mission Relief Society while her husband served as president in that mission. @ Celestia J. Taylor, author of the homemaking discussions ''Development Through Homemaking Education," beginning January 1967, has been a member of the General Board of Relief Society since 1962. She has served on the social science and literature committees and has often written scripts used in departmental meetings at a Relief Society annual conference. She has had poems published in The Relief Society Magazine, and her article, 'Three Women," featured in the May 1966 issue, recounts the courage and devotion of Sister Taylor's grandparents in the settlement of Utah County, Utah. She was born in the lovely mountain village of Alpine. She received her Bachelor of Arts and Master's degrees in English at Brigham Young University, where she is now teaching in the English department. Sister Taylor has a lovely singing voice and has studied under Florence J. Madsen. She is the wife of Lynn D. Taylor, Provo merchant, and the mother of five children, all of whom are married except the youngest son who is serving a mission in England. Sister Taylor has served as stake literature class leader and as a -ward Relief Society president. Her -charming home high on the hills east of Provo is a haven of hospitality where family and friends enjoy a spirit of loving kindness and gracious welcome. 47 HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon DOES YOUR HOME HAVE A PERSONALITY? Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1966 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Objective: To show that through wise planning and creativity, the homemaker can fashion a home of good taste which expresses INTRODUCTION Mary Jane's home is distinctively Mary Jane. It bears her signature with charm and good taste, and is different from any other home in the ward. An interesting observation is that individuality has been achieved through a small outlay of money and a large outlay of time and _ creative know-how. She antiqued her twentyyear-old dining room set, the lines good but the finish marred, in ivory. An attractive new gold-framed mirror hangs above the buffet. Antiquing found its way into her bedroom also, but is executed differently. A brass bed is enhanced by lovely old Queen Anne chests on either side, refinished in a color called Venetian blue. A night stand commode, also renewed to match the chests, joins a comfortable chair. Gracing the commode is an artistic bouquet of Mary Jane's Flemish flowers (plastic flowers made elegant by special treatment). An allpurpose room, converted from a porch, strikes a fresh, happy note. The chalk white walls and black marbleized linoleum are a perfect foil for wrought iron metal chairs upholstered in a bright pinky-orange print. Other projects are still in the making, but one never doubts that the Johnson home will have personality. 472 her personality and that of her family. REFLECT YOUR PERSONALITY Houses are for people, not people for houses. What are your hobbies, your tastes, your interests, your pattern of living, your likes and dislikes? A house and its furnishings should be a logical outgrowth of the needs of the family. While homemakers would like to take advantage of the products of modern science— new techniques, materials, and textures—it is folly to bow to the fad of the moment, especially in major expenditures. Don't worry about what "they" are doing this fall. Someone has wisely said that following a fad or making concessions to the latest vogue in home decoration can keep one's true "personality from coming through." TO DISCUSS 1. What purposes should a house fulfill? Note to leader: Try to elicit the following responses from the class... A home must be functional; it must be suitable economically; it should possess individuality; it should be as beautiful as a homemaker can make it. 2. A rule of thumb in decorating is that nothing in a house is worth its space unless it is useful or beautiful or both. Can you justify this statement? Give examples. THE THEME IS THE THING Unity and interest are created when a room has a theme or focal point to coordinate its parts. One homemaker chose four handsome inexpensive prints of old colonial Williamsburg. Her husband skillfully framed the prints, painting the mats surrounding the pictures the exact color of the walls, which lends an unusual note. The livable color seheme for the room is carefully pulled from the prints, an old trick but still a very effective one for achieving harmony. Another woman created a room with a feeling that was different because she expressed a particular point of view. She built her living room around some family heirloom Jasperware Wedgewood plates. The blue plates with their white cameo reliefs are stunning with the light wedgewood-blue walls and washable white corduroy draperies she has made herself. Driftwood, gathered from the beach, is featured over the mantle of a modern home, along with contemporary glass in jewel tones. Your theme might be a piece of furniture you wish to feature, a fabric, a rug—anything you own or obtain or create which you feel comfortable with and to which you wish to give prominence. COLOR IS MAGIC Do certain colors ever make you happy, irritable, serene, or depressed? Color can accomplish more inexpensively than any other decorating ingredient. It is the magic which can unify odds and ends of furniture, minimize architectural defects, and make a charming home out of a dull one. As a rule it is best to have classic, simple backgrounds in neutral or subdued colors, and to use strongLESSON DEPARTMENT er color for accents. However, no one wants to obtain the effect in a room referred to years ago as "waiting room tan." One predominating color in a room is good, and large areas of one color in small rooms tend to create a sense of space. Larger rooms can tolerate color and pattern for warmth and softness. Color transition from one room to the adjoining room is also important. TO DISCUSS How can we become more sensitive to color and its use? (The leader might draw from the class the following: reading of homemaking magazines; study with one's own home in mind, visits to stores selling home furnishings, museums, and _ public buildings; be observant of the use of color but not critical when visiting homes of others; be conscious of color combinations everywhere, including nature; converse with artists, and people who have a broad knowledge of color; experiment with swatches of fabric and color samples. Emphasize that learning about color can be a thrillmg experience throughout a homemaker's life.) SUMMARY The selection of furniture and its arrangement, floor coverings, the exciting subject of accessories —these are a few of the numerous areas to explore and study to aid you in changing a house into a home. Awareness and study will also help you to develop a feeling for good design, proportion, and balance. In Roman mythology we read of Janus, guardian of the gates and doors, who is represented by two faces because every door looks two ways. It is also said that one face is looking to the past, while the other scans the present and the future. We 473 JUNE 1966 should try to look at both the past and the present with our minds and our affections in order to express personality in our homes. Learn to be happy in living with what you have. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Few, indeed, can redecorate and/or add to furnishings all at once. It takes work and planning. Make a tentative ale FIRE HAZARD OF CLEANING CLOTHS USING SOLUTION IN MAY HOMEMAKING LESSON The February 1966 Relief Society Magazine, page 144, item 8, of the work meeting lesson for May, contains a suggestion for a solution for cleaning medium and darkcolored wood. The suggested solution is made by adding 3 tablespoons of boiled linseed oil and 1 tablespoon of turpentine to 1 quart of hot water. While this is an effective cleaning solution, there is danger of fire by spontaneous combustion if the cloths used in applying the solution are not carefully discarded or destroyed. They can be placed in metal cans with tight-fitting lids, or hung on a clothesline outside in the shade, where air circulates around them, before disposing of them. They should never be left in a room, in a drawer, or in a place where heat, sunlight, or fuel could cause the linseed oil to ignite. 474 VY Or five-year-plan for home improvement, listing each of the years across a page and under each year the anticipated improvements, replacements, or additions, with the estimated cost. Some years, of course, you may do nothing. Star those items you or your family can do yourselves. Example: Under 1966 you may plan new linoleum for the kitchen—$100.00, *new cafe-style curtains for kitchen, and *materials to refinish top of David's study desk— $5.00. @eeseseeeeeneestesesni | | | | f ' 2-in-1 offer DESERET i a Send check or money order to: Fully Dramatized Sound Filmstrip bu We it 7) ih. | The First Vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith Here you can follow the thrilling beginning of the restoration during 1820, including the revivals, Joseph's search, his first vision, being ridiculed and reviled, and his testimony. A valuable soundfilmstrip, in full color, for each Latter-day Saint family to cherish and show upon numerous occasions (Family night, firesides, missionary work, class lessons, etc.) Film: 152 frames Record: Side 1 The Apostasy Side 2 The First Vision Magnificent Aid for the Missionary and Teacher Exciting Bonus Feature } Vision," it concerns the establishment of the primitive Church of Jesus Christ founded upon apostles and prophets lot? Both for just $10.50 | 2231-Garfield Avenue 'Salt Lake City, Utah 84108: Pa RES areselqeete —— THE MORNING SKIES ARE FAIR AND BRIGHT Vilate R. McAllister The morning skies are fair and bright— Then mists begin to gather, And chances are before it's night We'll have inclement weather. Oh, who can tell at break of day What fortune may befall him Before its ending? Who can say That there will naught appall him? Still, let not worry, doubt, and fear Engulf the morning hours. Expect the day to bring its share Of happiness and flowers. But lest a storm come unannounced, Prepare your soul to greet it As part of life. Saivation lies In how you've planned to meet it. 475 - The Apostasy included as an excellent companion feature to "The First guided by revelation and the great apostasy which followed. 476 NEW AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN PAYS *100 WEEKLY... Even for life to Non-drinkers and Non-Smokers! At last—a new kind of hospitalization plan for you thousands who realize drinking and moking are harmful. Rates are fantastically low because "poor risk" drinkers and smokers are excluded. Since your health is superior there is no age limit, no physical examination, no waiting period. Only you can cancel your policy. No salesman will ever call. Starting the first day you enter any hospital, you will be paid $14.28 a day. Yeu do not smoke or drink— so why pay premiums for those who do? Every day in your newspaper you see more evidence that drinking and smoking shorten life. They're now one of America's leading health problems — a prime cause of the high premium rates most hospitalization policies charge. Our rates are based on your superior health, as a non-drinker and non-smoker. The new American Temperance Hospitalization Plan can offer you unbelievably low rates because we do not accept drinkers and smokers, who cause high rates. Also, your premiums can never be_ raised because you grow older or have too many claims. Only a general rate adjustment up or down could affect your low rates. And only you can cancel your policy. We cannot. DO THIS TODAY! Fill out application below and mail right away. Upon approval, your policy will be promptly mailed. Coverage begins at noon on effective date of your policy. Don't delay. Every day almost 50,000 people enter hospitals. So get your protection now. We invite close comparison with any other plan. Actually, no other is like ours. But compare rates. See what you save. MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE Read over your policy carefully. Ask your minister, lawyer and doctor to examine it. Be sure it provides exaclly what we say it does. Then; if for any reason at oll yee are not 100%, satisfied, just mail your policy back to us within 30 days and we will immediately refund your entire premium. No questions asked. You can gain thousands of dollars... You risk nothing. 477 READ YOUR AMERICAN TEMPERANCE PLAN BENEFITS 1. You receive $100 cash weekly — TAX FREE—even for life, from the first day you enter a hospital. Good in any hospital in the world. We pay in addition to any other insurance you carry. We send you our payments Air Mail Special Delivery so you have cash on hand fast. No limit on number of times you collect. 2. We cover all accidents and sicknesses, except pregnancy, any act of war or military service, pre-existing accidents or sickness, hospitalization caused by use of liquor or narcotics. On everything vlse vou're fully protected—at amazingly low rates! 3. Other benefits for loss within 90 days of accident (as described in policy). We pay $2000 cash for accidental death. Or $2000 cash for loss of one hand, one foot. Or sight of one eye. Or $6000 cash for loss of both eves, both hands, or both feet. IMPORTANT: include first premium with application. LOOK AT THESE AMERICAN TEMPERANCE LOW RATES Pay Monthly Pay Yearly 1980 eons $380 $38 Siren $5 | $59 wire $7 | $79 Each child 18 ea ae poys $78 $28 SAVE TWO MONTHS PREMIUM BY PAYING YEARLY! Se oe we ee ee es ss es es ess es es es es a ee ee er ss 0 es ee ee a a a ee TEAR OUT AND MAIL TODAY BEFORE IT'S TOO LATE R. S. 5882 APPLICATION TO BUCKINGHAM LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY, EXECUTIVE OFFICES, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS ror AT-t00 AMERICAN TEMPERANCE HOSPITALIZATION POLICY Name (PLEASE PRINT) Street or AO ¥. City | County. State Zip « Age; Oate of Birth | Month Day Year Occupation. Herght Weight Beneficiary Relationship 1 also apply for coverage for the members of my family listed below NAME AGE HEIGHT WEIGHT BENEFICIARY BIRTH DATE sjapale To the best of your knowledge and belief, are you and all members listed above in good health and free from any physical impaurment, or disease? Yes[) No{) or treatment, of have you of they been advised to have a surgical operation in the last five years? Yes() No] If so, please give details stating person affected, cause, date, name and address of attending physician, and whether fully recovered. Werther | nor any person listed above uses tobacco of alcoholic beverages, and | hereby apply for a policy based on the understanding that the policy does not cover conditions Originating prior to its effective date, and that the policy ls. Issued solely and entirely in reliance upon the written answers to the above questions. Date: Signed: X | Mail this application wt) AMERICAN TEMPERANCE ASSOCIATES, Inc., your first premium to BOX 133, LIBERTYVILLE, ILLINOIS AT-AAY —_ eee ces ne mS ee a ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee en we ee ee oe ee ee oe To the best of your knowledge, have you of any member above fisted had medical advice | x eS ee— eo a SACRED MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES (SSA) —sABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.............25 —..! COME, COME, YE SAINTS —Madsen oo........ Ceecceceeeeeoeeee.25 _....... GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner.........30 —HEAVENS ARE TELLING Haydn once eeeeeeeeeeceeeees 25 A. LORD BLESS AND KEEP ' THEE—Madsen...............--.-- 25 waresNO MAN IS AN ISLAND Ringwald -..0......... Scceeee.25 eTPRAYERFUL HOUR—Chopin...25 seOH, MAY | KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND—Madsen elONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Simeone.............30 aTHIS DAY IS MINE—Ware.......20 (1 Money Enclosed Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC (CO. 145 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 Please send the music indicated above: [] On Approval (1 Charge [7] Money Enclosed The totally new AATLAULAATEAALAL / PARK FREE in the spacious lot just east of our new store... Or in any of the downtown lots. WE VALIDATE erly TO A HURT CHILD Alda L. Brown What sweet rapture In one refrain.... To hear a robin In the rain! What sheer ecstasy It is to know That violets bloom Beneath the snow! But, oh, the happiness That calms our fears, To see a smile Break through your tears. ABSOLUTES Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn The mountain skies are such Unfathomed blue That green of pines must be Intense in hue, The day-moon pale, and clouds Be snowflake white To match and keep this key Of high, pure fight. WASTED HOURS Ruth G. Rothe The door is locked on yesterday And no one has the key To open it and let us grasp Our lost felicity.... PLAN YOUR VACATION NOW around an exciting MURDOCK TOUR 1. Vikingland Tour Departs July 12th Jet DC-8 express to Scandinavia for 22 days of enchantment —Miss nothing of real interesting Norway, Sweden and Denmark — Highest Class accomodations at amazingly low cost. Phone: 328-3161 Name.................. MURDOCK an BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News. Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.... 55 Zone &.......... 90 one 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 7Zone8..........1.20 Zoe 5....80 a —. DESERET [PEWS PRESS Please send me full particulars on: [_] Vikinglands Tour [ ] LDS Temples and Lake Louise Tour 2. LDS Temples & Lake Louise Tour - Departs July 11 12 spiritual-rich days in United States and Canada—Air conditioned bus to the beauties of Lake Loéuise and summer in Western Canada — Temple Sessions in Cardston, Idaho Falls and Logan (Temple recommends required) MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main/Salt Lake City, Utah eaneeseeeeseeseesseaeaae COFFS SESH OO OOF SFO S-O OSS SSOP SESSESESSOCEHS HSE S ES NORTHWEST TOUR June 25 — July 2 HILL CUMORAH TOURS July 1966 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 23 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 21 NEW ENGLAND—CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 4719 TRAVEL ress......2.2. 2... 97 95 480 —— va y o 7 4 y Mrs. Isabell Christensen Overson Richfield, Utah Mrs. Serena Jacobson Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marcia Armstrong Jolley Provo, Utah Mrs. Lily A. Parker Kennewick, Washington Mrs. Catherine Alice McCarrell Bee Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alice Brindley Waters Orem, Utah Mrs. Hettie Jane Smith Hunt Salt Lake City, Utah MY HOUR KH Hhiliyy Congratuleliin 1 Mrs. Mary Garrett Richland, Oregon Mrs. Eva Maesar Crandall Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Phebeth Ann Evans Seymour Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Clara Woodbury Barlow Sylvester Adams Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Charlotte Powell Smythe Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie Isabel Riggs Ostvig Monticelle, Minnesota Mrs. Mary Court Sutton, Coldfield England Mrs. Elizabeth Collings Parrish Centerville, Utah Pearle M. Olsen This hour is mine to lose or use— To mar, to brighten—as | choose. This hour is all | have secure; Now | am breathing, calm and sure! This hour is brief, yet will be gold Invested in myself—when old. This hour of mine has power to be Important in eternity! CHOICE REACING FASCINATING WOMANHOOD by Helen Andelin $5.50 Remake yourself into a woman your husband will admire! This book is a scholarly and completely thought-out approach to the creation of total femininity within you. These are the principles you must apply in winning a man's genuine love. UNDERSTANDING THE THINGS OF GOD by Alma P. Burton $2.95 A popular writer takes us into the realm of modern doctrine to help us understand God's relationship to man. This well-written book gives us a deeper understanding of the basic truths concerning God — that he lives, that we were created in his image, that exaltation is possible through faithfulness. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange California 92669 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN = al Check Books wanted: ( Fascinating Womanhood ( Understanding The Things of God bie e com 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT: COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Enclosed please find check......... Money order.......... Or. I have an account, please charge.......... Total amount, plus 342% Utah Sales Tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or plus 4% Calif. Sales Tax for Calif. Residents ordering from Orange BR ornate nna nanna Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Whether you're a little girl or a seventy-five year old sugar company, birthdays are memorable. Before we blow out the 75 candles on our Diamond Jubilee Birthday Cake, we want to make these wishes for our many friends: the Lad May you enjoy the fun of making sweet treats 0 for loved ones... U and I Sugar will help with as fine a sugar made, anywhere in the world! May your days start bright and end pleasantly 4 Yew from breakfast to evening dessert, U and I 0 ia t Sugar promises to sweeten your day! May you have abundant sunshine and rainfall to uy ue.. And produce a bumper crop of home-grown U and I Sugar. (thwiil Bakers, bottlers, candymakers, canners, Ap oy / freezers, preservers and ice cream manufacu turers... U and I will continue to supply the fra, aahaes highest quality sugars that help make your — products the best of their kind. Pe May our 45 million dollar sugar industry flourish and continue to contribute millions of tax Fragpayee dollars for better schools, highways and public services. - 0 7 SWEETNESS IN YOUR LIFE! Po ANNIVERSARY Relief Society | thank you for our wonderful Magazines. They become more beautiful each month. Such color! | have always loved the hobby pages, showing the sisters surrounded by their beautiful handwork. The March issue is especially beautiful, showing the lovely quilts and other works of art. R. May M. Foote Tulsa, Oklahoma Not long ago we were transferred to Boise from our lifelong home in Salt Lake City, Utah. | found myself alone, a stranger, yearning for a familiar sight or sound. How overjoyed | was when | discovered a dear friend smiling out at me, beckoning me already into a pictorial visit with the lovely place on its front cover and promising me gladness and inspiration through its printed pages, each story, poem, and article uplifting me in my desire to make my new home as dear a place of love and beauty for my family as the old home had been. Mrs. Monroe C. Gollaher Boise, Idaho | have grown up with The Relief Society Magazine. My mother would read the stories, and then tell them to us children as we husked corn, picked feathers, when preparing a chicken, and other chores. She also read the stories aloud to us before we were old enough to read them ourselves. As far as | can remember, our Church Magazines have always been included in our literary education. Kathryn A. Billings El Paso, Texas The Magazine is such a splendid publication! It always has so many informative and beautiful spiritual messages among its lovely pages. Ruth J. Huish SecretaryTreasurer Southern Arizona Stake Relief Society Douglas, Arizona 482 ¢ a i P " ¢ 'fi. ¢ ' # ee - | want to express my appreciation for the fine literature lessons and challenging textbook ''Out of the Books."" We have found this book be most inspiring and all the less seem to have been prepared with needs in mind. It came as a pleasant surprise to when | read my April number of T Relief Society Magazine and saw article (''Inspiration," page 296) a the significant and graceful sett which was arranged for it. The edit "The Flowers Appear on the Earth" Vesta P. Crawford) is beautifully wi ten, and is so warm and understan | should like to express to all read the Magazine that they do al read the editorials. They belong to and are for us. They encourage us reach for our own_ resources strength, and they give us unity purpose. Clara Horne Draper, U | love The Relief Society Magazine. Became a Latter-day Saint fourt years ago, and since then have been subscriber to the Magazine. About t years ago, when | was quite upset needed answers to my problems, found this wonderful book helped many times. | especially love the soci science lessons. They help me so mu in my daily life. Olive C. Hol St. Johns, Newfoundla | truly enjoy The Relief Society Ma zine which comes to our home @ month. | especially enjoyed "'Appro ate Music Materials,'' by Cleon Eccles in the March Magazine. Article has given me added inspir as a chorister for the Santa Su Ward Relief Society. Charlotte T Santa Susana, Cali the Relief Society waczzine Volume 53 July 1966 Number 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 484 Involvement Teaching Stephen R. Covey 488 Zelma R. West Appointed to the General Board Alberta H. Christensen 490 Become a Friend of the Library Marianne C. Sharp 492 The Relief Society Magazine - Bearer of Light Wendell J. Ashton 507 They Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith /da A. Isaacson Fiction 497 Tell Me of Love Chapter 1 Rosa Lee Lloyd 508 Bag of Gold Hazel K. Todd 524 Wheat for the Wise - Chapter 7 (Conclusion) Margery S. Stewart General Features 482 From Near and Far 503 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 504 Editorial: A Pattern for the Daughters of Zion Vesta P. Crawford 506 Wealtha S. Mendenhall Resigns from the General Board 531 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 560 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out 506 Elemental Eileen Giberson 515 Vacation Plans Kathryn E. Franks 518 Passing Sunlight Ethel Hopper 518 Dripless Candles Ivy Houtz Woolley 519 A German Holiday Buffet - Part II Carla Sansom 522 Songs My Mother Sang Genevieve Van Wagenen 523 Myrtle Kiddle Seely Achieves a Varied Artistry 557 Unfinished Business Amy Hillyard Jensen Lesson Department 538 Spiritual Living John's Testimony of Jesus Roy W. Doxey 543 Visiting Teacher Message 'But I Have Commanded You to Bring Up Your Children...." Alice Colton Smith 544 Homemaking Put Sparkle in Your Meals Hazel S. Cannon 547 Social Relations That All May Learn Alberta H. Christensen 552 Cultural Refinement A Candle of Understanding Robert K. Thomas Poetry 481 Cycle Iris W. Schow If You Wait, Dorothy J. Roberts, 489; Prayer, Elsbeth Weiss, 496; The Legacy, Bertha A. Kleinman, 507; Reverie in Meadow Grass, Peggy Tangren, 514; A Day Like This, Maude O. Cook, 530; Morning By the Sea, Sylvia Probst Young, 557: Summertime, Margory E. Green, 558. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c @ copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. VOT EINLEIN TTY sme co Administrative Assistant TEACHING [amet |. Learning Is Changed Behavior — Your Divine Objective Class Leaders! Mothers! Let this thought permeate your whole soul: the purpose of teaching is learning: learning is changed behavior. Your objective, then, is to inspire and help the learners to develop more Christlike characters through more Christlike living every day. (3 Nephi 27:27.) Simple? Obvious, you say? Perhaps. However, carefully reflect on the strong tendencies in preparing and giving lessons to serve other objectives, e. G., 'to cover material," "to get through the points," "to get the facts across," or even "to stimulate intellectually," "to involve," 'to impress." Divine knowledge or learning, the Savior taught, is a function of living or doing "the doctrine." (John 7:16-17.) Peter beautifully taught this same vital principle by emphasizing that a knowledge of Jesus Christ is the fruit of living or obeying divine principles, beginning with faith and ending with charity or divine love. (II Peter 1:3-8.) Knowledge is more than information — it is conversion. Saturate your heart and your thinking with this lofty eternal aim, and you will discover it will constantly shape your preparations and teaching methods and dynamically influence your teach- 484 ing relationships. The most important single ingredient in teaching is your motive, your real objective. Ll. Why Involvement Teaching? Unless the learner is involved —dynamically participates — in the learning process, very little, if any, learning (changed behavior) will result. This growth principl underlies our entire Church philosophy and tellingly distinguishes us from the professional "one man" approach to religion. The more the whole person (mind, heart, soul, and the senses) is involved, the more real, deep and permanent the learning or change. 1. Involving the learner helps to bridge the gap between the abstract (theory, principle, theology, "what should be") and the concrete (actual living, "what is'). Why? Because when the learner participates, you bring reality (feeling, real problems, actual behavior) to _ ideality (principles, theory). Unless this gap is bridged, then application of the principle or lesson to life is unlikely, even though there is a momentary inspiration and resolve to "do the thing." But, later, in the midst of the pressing and buffeting realities of life, old habits and attitudes reassert themselves. Something must be ocess itself in addition n't cooper t otivating program, is" and m e." But, of even oving to tice opportunity in lvement t S mutual understanding necessity; effective. In order listening This means faith in and tendency manipulate. Unless th maximize INVOLVEMENT TEACHING tionship —— try to feel the pulse and adapt your lesson accordWhenever 4 person is sincerely listened +0, understood, and respected, the defenses lower, openness and teachability result. Living the laws of love encourages obedience to the laws of life. IW. How Effectively to Involve the Learner Intuitive life responses As 'ustrated, you note the interdependency and relationship between knowledge, skills, and attitudes. To influence or change one will, to some degree; affect or change the other two. Involveaim at all three <jmultaneously, thus maximizing the influence. People remember most of what they do, little of what they hear. Reading 4 esson out loud, methods. They are often used out of fear or inadequate preparation or out of simply "not knowing 485 JULY 1966 2. Role plays (spontaneous or arranged beforehand) in which learners live out the plan of action in a simulated reality, or learn how to communicate and to practice other human skills. 3. Buzz groups are formed by breaking the larger group into smaller, less restraining groups to achieve any number of purposes, such as discussing the application of the lesson to life, considering practical problems, analyzing one part of the topic, making decisions, and determining a specific plan of action. When people can express themselves without fear of ridicule, censure, or embarrassment, they become more open to influence and to change. Small informal groupings tend to encourage this and to release the creative capacities of more individuals. 4. Other excellent involving techniques include panel discussions, symposiums, tableaus, individuals giving special reports, sharing experiences, testimonies, giving part of the lesson. Try new methods. Don't be easily discouraged or judge first attempts too harshly. Be patient with yourself. Involvement teaching skills don't develop overnight. As with any skill, proficiency only comes with preparation and practice. IV. Intellectual-Emotional-Spiritual Involvement Involvement occurs if the learner's mind and heart are "in gear," even though she may not express herself verbally. 1. Testimony - Spiritual Appeals. We have all experienced soulstirring involvement in listening 486 to a powerful, inspiring message of a great leader or teacher. Our minds have been enlightened by the comprehensive eternal plan and view, our hearts softened and perhaps convicted by a spiritual message of repentance, our souls thrilled by a testimony of the living Christ and his marvelous work and wonder. Class leaders, never underestimate the power of sincere testimony. Bear yours fervently, naturally, frequently. Preaching the word of God has a "more powerful effect upon the minds of people than the sword, or anything else" (Alma 31:5). The Holy Ghost will confirm your testimony in the hearts and souls of the hearers. This is surely the most effective involvement, for it pierces to the very core and works on the roots of life. 2. Use a physical or natural illustration to teach a spiritual principle. Jesus Christ was a master in this with his use of parables. He would vividly describe real situations from the people's own experiences and draw out divine lessons. Then, each time the experience reoccurred or the scene reappeared, his divine lesson would be retaught. You can do the same thing. Cultivate your powers of observation, imagination, and description. Teach inductively—infer from the specific to the general. Often it is more powerful than deductive teaching — inferring from the general to the specific. Constantly draw spiritual lessons from the "seen" natural and physical processes in life. For example: 1. In teaching the divine prin- ciples of love, faith, patience, and supportive understanding in relationships, illustrate the seen process of slow, natural, physical growth in children. What about the unseen emotional, and social, spiritual growth processes? 2. In teaching justice or the law of the harvest (you reap what you sow), ask an untrained person to play the piano or to sing a solo. Apply the obvious learning to the development of any skill (cooking, tennis, or communicating). Observe the farming process from planting in the spring to harvesting in the fall. There is no shortcut in farming, in school, in rearing a family, in teaching Relief Society, in building relationships, in achieving any real success. 3. In teaching that the things of God, including a testimony, are given by the Spirit of God (see 1 Corinthians 2:9-14), pretend blindness and ask others to describe what it means to see. Technical information, analysis, and intellectualizing about sight won't help at all. To know God one must experience his Spirit, which comes from searching, prayer, study, worthiness, but not from human reasoning. 4. In teaching that faith is born of obedience (desire, experimentation, diligence, patience —(Alma 32:26-43), blindfold someone. Then ask three voices (one true, the others false) to direct her to her purse hidden somewhere in the room. On finding it, ask her how she discovered which voice was true and which false. Then try breaking into buzz groups to discuss the many additional insights and principles involved. INVOLVEMENT TEACHING Class Leaders, you are limited only by your imagination in drawing the spiritual out of the physical. THE ROOTS Effective involvement teaching isn't easy. It is highly demanding and spiritually exacting. Fundamentally, you teach the quality of your spirit. Therefore, your most vital preparation is spiritual. Learn first to master yourself, then get into the lesson content. You teach what you are, no more and no less, in the long run. Gethsemane was a private battlefield—Calvary a public one. Private victories precede public ones. Shallow spiritual preparation, mechanical prayer, and heavy reliance on lesson content and teaching techniques will not deeply influence others to change, though they may be impressed. The important problems you face as a class leader, or in your life, generally, are rooted spiritually (though the branches appear practical or technical) and the key to their solution also lies within yourself. Out of the heart flow the real issues of life. (Proverbs 4:23.) Learn to examine your heart. Root out doublemindedness, the father of instability. Repent and covenant. Eliminate hyprocrisy. Pray from your heart, privately, earnestly. Study the word of the Lord every day to feel and know the Author and his ways. "Let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds" (D&C 43:34). "IT am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit; for without me ye can do nothing" (John 15:5). 487 Zelma R. West Appointed to the General Board Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society Zelma Ririe West, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, April 13, 1966, was born in Ogden, Utah, the tenth child of Alexander and Elizabeth McBride Ririe. After her graduation from Weber College and her marriage to Wilburn C. West, she accompanied her husband _ to Washington, D. C., where their four children were born: Wilburn Jr, a university graduate and married; Carolyn West Wilkinson, college graduate and mother of the West's five grandchildren; and Stephen and David undergraduate college students. The two older sons have served L. D. S. Missions. Sister West's early interests were in the field of dramatics and radio work. She was affiliated with KLO in Ogden, was a member of a community theater group and conducted a weekly story hour for young children. In later years she became active in P. T. A. Work, both in Arlington, Virginia, and in Utah. She has given many years of devoted service to the Church, her first administrative assignment, at nineteen, being that of a ward counselor in the YWMIA. She has also served in a Primary organization presidency. Her interest in Relief Society is a natural one, since her mother was a Relief Society president. She, 488 herself, has served in the presidencies of branch, ward, an stake Relief Societies, and hi for many years been a visitin teacher. In 1962, her husband was called to preside over the Eastern States Mission and the Wests resided in New York City, remaining, by request, beyond th termination of their mission assignment, to assist in th Church. Participation at th World's Fair, until its close im October 1965. Zelma West brings. To th General Board the strength of a deep and sustaining faith. He kind and friendly personality wil endear her to the women of Relie Society throughout the Chure Her willingness to serve and h mature thinking will make her valuable member of the Board. PHOTOGRAPH RO LUCE IF YOU WAIT Dorothy J. Roberts Out of low places, _ Flowers rise. To paint a summer On. Gray skies. -. Softly; in. A low place, Song will start,* A thought is born _ To lift thé leaden heart. _ Always in the depth Some new ray glows And silence Holds the shadow of a rose. The J. Reuben Clark. Jr. Library at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, U. S. A | SEBECOME A FRIEND OF THE LIBRARY Counselor Marianne C. Sharp 490 @ The J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Library of the Brigham Young University was dedicated on October 10, 1962. The exterior design is Ancient American or Mayan. Lorenzo S. Young was the architect. Two exterior murals were executed by Dr. Avard Fairbanks. The library is designed to serve not only the students and faculty of Brigham Young University but also as a research facility for the whole Church. It contains collections of primary interest to the women of the Church in many fields, including child training, home decorating, and literature. It has some 600,000 volumes. It also contains a Branch Genealogical Library. By checking with the Director's Office, groups may arrange a tour or to meet in a library seminar room for library related study or discussion. The library has five floor levels —two below ground level and three above. Services in the library, among many others, include blind patron services, a map collection, a microfilm room, newspaper reading area, typing rooms, Zerox copying, archives, documents collections, and a listening library with recordings of music, literature, drama, and a large number of historical documentaries and speeches. A memorial program has been set up through which friends and dear ones may be memorialized through a gift used to purchase books which are identified as memorial gifts. Each $5.00 contributed will place one book in the library, dedicated to the one memorialized. In September of 1965, the "Friends of the Brigham Young University Library" was actively organized under the direction of an Executive Committee, with Elder Marion D. Hanks as Chairman. The purpose of the 'Friends of the Library" is to provide a medium through which persons interested in the library will have an opportunity to keep informed about library services and resources and contribute to library growth. The members of the organization will be encouraged to help the library locate original diaries, journals, manuscripts, and other historical materials that should be preserved. A newsletter will be published periodically that will keep members informed about library activities and important acquisitions. For the Brigham Young University to fulfill its destiny as a truly great university, it must have an outstanding research library. The future holds great promise for this Church-related institution and the J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Library. It is the hope that everyone will become interested in its development. Those who would like information about the "Friends of the Library" or desire to receive the newsletter, should write to "Friends of the Brigham Young University Library," Provo, Utah. 491 The Relief Society Magazine ——— Bearer of Light ———— Wendell J. Ashton {Address Delivered at the Magazine Department Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] @ Somehow, as I have approached this assignment on The Relief Society Magazine, my thoughts have gone back to my missionary days in Britain, and my mind has lingered in England's beautiful Lake Country, where a group of us missionaries observed the Fourth of July 1934. This is the area which gave to us our third President of the Church, John Taylor. The Lake Country is an Eden of brilliant flowers, symphonies of leafy trees, quiet waters rippled by swans and sailboats, and white stucco homes. In one of these cottages, in Grasmere, lived a poet, a former orphan boy, who penned some of the noblest verse of the nineteenth century. His name: William Wordsworth. Wordsworth wrote at least two poems titled "To the Skylark," 492 and his contemporary, Percy B Shelley, wrote a well-known poe with the same name. But let refer now to the skylark Wor worth addressed in his ve written in 1825. He called t bird a "pilgrim of the sky." the lark winged higher toward the heavens, he asked: Or, while the wings aspire, are heart and eye Both with thy nest upon the de ground? Wordsworth verse: concludes hi True to the kindred points of Heave and Home! Truly, that Lake Country po seemed to see in that skylark link between heaven and hom That is what I see in The Reli Society Magazine. It is mo than an ordinary woman's maga zine. It brings heaven closer home, and home closer to heaven. You and your counterparts i all the wards and branches a much more than Magazine representatives, as important as tho positions may be. You are indeed bearers of light which brin heaven to home in these changing, challenging times. You carry to the world the only periodical on earth which delivers the pure, restored gospel of the Master in a gift especially packaged for women. Jesus could have been speaking to you when he, the resurrected Lord, addressed the multitude after he had instituted the sacrament among the Nephites: "Hold up your light that it may shine unto the world" (3 Nephi 18:24). The women of the world today need that light. They need the THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - BEARER OF LIGHT monthly messages of The Relief Society Magazine more than ever, as we now approach the final third of the twentieth century. May I suggest three areas in which your Magazine is needed. 1. It is a constant amid change. In a message, "Reflections on The Age of Change," published in Advertising Age we find these provocative words: Today, about 25 percent of all human beings who ever lived are alive. And 90 percent of all the scientists who ever lived are alive. The rate of the world's population increase has doubled in this center third of the 20th century. Seven out of 10 medical prescriptions filled by pharmacists in 1965 were not even known 30 years ago. At that time, only one farm in every ten in the United States had commercial electrical service. And we were still a rural nation. Now the urban areas exceed the rural areas in population; only 10 percent of our citizens now supply all our agricultural needs (Reprinted with permission from the August 2, 1965, issue of Advertising Age. Copyright 1965 by Advertising Publications Inc.). The world's population during the last third of this century will almost double, increasing from 3.3 billion now to 6 billion in the year 2000, it was reported at an industrial conference sponsored by Stanford Research Institute and National Industrial Conference Board. North America's population will gain 64 per cent, the report says; Latin America's, 157 per cent; Europe's, 15 per cent; Asia's, 89 per cent; and Africa's, 151 per cent. The home life of women is changing markedly through automation and other new developments. For example, it is reported that there are now more homes in the United States with television sets than there are with bathtubs or showers, and last year the average home had television on over five hours a day. The Department of Labor tells us that approximately one-third of America's married women are now working outside the home. Just over fifty years ago there were available to the women of the world only eight electrical appliances, and few homes had even one of them. Today there are over 200 of these electrical servants available to the homemaker. This automation in the home gives women time they had never dreamed of thirty years ago. For example, an automatic clothes dryer saves the average homemaker twenty eight-hour working days a year, according to an Ohio State University study. It has been reported that the average American homemaker today has at her fingertips electrical appliances and equipment with a total horsepower of approximately sixty-five. Allowing the strength of one horse equal to that of twenty-two men, she has in her home the strength of some 1,480 men—in addition to her own husband! How is this extra time being used? For shallow pleasures or more culture and faith and family solidarity? The constancy of The Relief Society Magazine is needed amid these shifting patterns in the home. There is the challenge, too, to reach through the Magazine as well as through the warmth of our own thoughtfulness, those women so often forgotten: the widows, also those who have not enjoyed the blessings of marriage, 493 JULY 1966 and those who reside in homes where the Priesthood is not active. Now approximately every other woman over sixty in the United States is a widow, and the number of widows has about doubled in the past thirty years. There are almost four times as many widows as widowers. 2. The message of the Magazine is needed to _ strengthen homes. Juvenile crime continues to climb in the Free World. Mother's apronstrings, at least in a large segment of our homes, seem to have lost their pull. It has been estimated that 286,000 infants were born out of wedlock in 1964 fin the United States], up about 24 per cent from 1960 and nearly double the 1950 total. More than ever before, the homes of the world need the refining, strengthening influence of the message of the Master. Samuel Johnson said: 'Men more frequently require to be reminded than to be informed." President David O. McKay, after describing an old piece of cloth woven by his grandmother, said: The ideals of true womanhood may sometimes seem as old-fashioned as that old piece of homespun cloth, but they are as unchanging and everlasting as the soul itself. The highest ideal for our young girls today, as for our mothers who crossed the plains, is love as it may be expressed in marriage and home building... (McKay, Davin O., Pathways to Happiness, page 380). 3. The Magazine serves as a missionary. In an old Norwegian city beside a zigzagging fjord, there lived in a 494 two-room apartment, in 1879, the young widow of a schoolmaster and her two small sons. One day when her son John's shoes were delivered from a shoemaker, the widow found pieces of literature tucked in the shoes. They were missionary tracts of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. On her next trip to the shoemaker, as she was about to leave his shop, he commented, hesitatingly: '"You may be surprised to hear me say that I can give you something of more value than soles for your child's shoes." She was surprised, but two years later she was_ baptized. The shoemaker had given her something more valuable than soles for her son's shoes. Her two sons were also baptized, and one of them, John A. Widtsoe, became a member of the Council of the Twelve. As_ representatives of The Relief Society Magazine, you are missionaries. The Magazine has the same message which Anna Widtsoe found in those tracts in the boy's shoes. Your Magazine, with you, can become a great missionary. I commend you stake representatives, your associates in the wards and branches, and the editors and staff of the Magazine for your achievement in spreading the influence of this monthly messenger around the world. The circulation of the Magazine now exceeds 244,000, compared with 74,032 in 1945—an increase of more than treble in twenty years. That is even greater growth, proportionately, than that of the membership of the Church. During the same _ period, Church ': THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE - BEARER OF LIGHT membership has gained approximately two and a half times. You can be proud of your Magazine. It is well organized and carefuly edited, and has an attractive format. Yet it costs less than a quarter of a penny a page! But how can we motivate our ward representatives to be even more effective? May I suggest three ways. First, excite them about their assignment as Magazine representatives. No man has motivated so many people so effectively for so long a time as Jesus. Let Mark tell you how Jesus asked Peter to accept a most challenging assignment. It was to preach a way of life that was to cause Peter's countrymen to rise up against him. Peter was to die for that message. He probably had little experience as a preacher. He was a fisherman. He no doubt liked fishing, and he was probably very successful, because he and _ his partners employed others. Jesus made his call exciting to Peter and his brother Andrew. To them the Master said: "Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men" (Mark 1: 17). Your ward and branch counterparts are more than Magazine representatives. They are bearers of light. Make their assignments glow—glow with the importance these assignments can achieve. Second, encourage them. James B. Hall is a former poor boy who has become president of the Kroger Company, with 1,450 stores, and sales which have quadrupled under his twenty years of leadership. One of the editors of Nation's Business recently interviewed him. The editor asked: '"What's the best way to stimulate people you work with?" Mr. Hall's reply began: "'Encouragement. I think the executive's job is encouraging people to think and act." Irving Ben Cooper, as chief justice of the Court of Special Sessions in New York City, a few years ago described a woman who motivated him, and many other men and women of distinction. She met him in high school, where she was a teacher. He was an immigrant boy from London. He wore patched pants and shoes reinforced with cardboard. She put her arm around him and made him feel important. He never forgot her encouragement and her counsel: 'Serve with honor, not for honor.'"' Her name: Calla Varner. One of the best forms of encouragement is to let your associates know that you know what they are accomplishing—continually. Third, exalt them. Every man and woman is really a multitude. When that shoemaker brought the message of the restored gospel to Anna Widtsoe, it was not the beginning of a solo conversion. After her baptism came those of her sons. How many lives has that one son, John A. Widtsoe, influenced for good? Yes, in a way, Anna Widtsoe was a whole multitude of men and women. Similarly, as a Magazine representative serves effectively, she becomes a multitude—a multitude of influences for the building of the kingdom. Recognize her, acknowledge her good works. Exalt her. 495 JULY 1966 May I conclude with the observations of two contemporaries, men who lived over 2,300 years ago? The first was Jarom, the prophet son of Enos. Jarom lived in this Western Hemisphere in the fourth century before Christ. There are only fifteen verses in his book in The Book of Mormon. He told how the prophets, priests, and teachers labored diligently among the Nephites, "... Persuading them to look forward unto the Messiah, and believe in him to come as though he already was..." (Jarom 1:11). This is a powerful message for us today: fervently to bear the light and teachings of the Master, as though he had come again. The other contemporary lived in Athens during the fading glory of ancient Greece. He was the son of a manufacturer of cutlery and couches. The boy was weakly, awkward, and with stammering speach. It is said that he put pebbles in his mouth to correct his halting speech. He became the greatest orator in all Greece. His name was Demosthenes. In his day there was a threat to Greece from a monarch in the north—Philip of Macedon. For years Demosthenes rallied Athens to stand against Philip and to preserve democracy. It is said that Demosthenes once remarked to his formidable rival in oratory, Aeschines, who favored cooperation with the enemy: "You make them say: 'How well he speaks.' I make them say: 'Let us march against Philip.' " May those whom we would lead, the Magazine representatives in the wards and branches, say after we have spoken, after we have excited, encouraged, and exalted: "Let us march. Let us march as representatives of the great Relief Society organization. Let us march in spreading the message of this Magazine—beacon light of hope, beauty, and charity. Let us march in helping bring heaven closer to our homes." O Lord, give rhythm to my soul, That | may understand and love my PRAYER Elsbeth Weiss fellow man— So he'll unveil his soul to me, And let me see the struggle and the strife To be his best—that we may share Our joys—and sorrows, too; And make this world a paradise, Which thou hast made for us To live and love and rise. 496 7 @ Julie Ann Ridgehaven sat down breathlessly beside her chum, Betz Condon, in the twinengine jet plane at the International Airport in Inglewood, California. There was an ache in her heart and anxiety in her eyes as she took the cablegram from her purse and read it again. It would be twenty hours before they arrived in Sydney, Australia, her home. Almost two days, she thought, with a forlorn sigh, before she would know the reason Aunt Isabelle had sent for her! Her dark-fringed blue eyes clung to the words of the cablegram: "'Come at once. Jet plane. Emergency. Lovingly, Aunt Isabelle." "Don't read it anymore," Betz coaxed her. "Just hope for the best. I wish you could have telephoned her before we left." "But I tried," Julie answered, tearfully. 'There wasn't time. Look how we rushed to get here. I couldn't have made it without Tell Me of Love Chapter 1 Rosa Lee Lloyd your help, Betz. All the girls in the dorm helped, too." "We can thank Daddy for getting our tickets," Betz added, "and Gordon. He wangled us through that heavy traffic. He knows all the sideroads. He's so —so utterly capable!'' Her voice trailed off lyrically. "Righto!" Julie agreed with true Australian enthusiasm. 'He is a real cobber—I should say pal over here. How you must hate to leave him on campus!" "T do, I do!" Betz puzzled her eyebrows together thoughtfully. "T'm not quite sure I want to marry Gordon. I have to be really sure, the way you are about Ron. So when mother and Daddy said it was okay for me to come with you because you needed me— well, it just seemed providential, as Professor Greenman would say." Providential, Julie repeated to herself. She was always amused when Betz used an impressive word in the middle of her ram- 497 JULY 1966 bling talk. But what would Aunt Isabelle and Grandfather Ridgehaven say when she presented Betz as their guest on a serious occasion like this? They were gracious, genteel people and always hospitable; but they were also conservative. They were determined to maintain the old traditions in spite of many changes in their homeland. "You should try to sleep,'"' Betz said, adjusting a pillow behind Julie's head. "Here, let me put your banjo somewhere else so you can rest better." Julie shook her head. She wanted her banjo close beside her; it was like holding on to Ron McLaren's hand, comforting and reassuring. "T want to make you comfortable,' Betz insisted. '"You've been awake all night." "So have you," Julie answered. "Aren't you sleepy, too?" "Oh, no!" Betz laughed. "I don't sleep when I'm on a trip. There's so much to see and so many people to talk to. Julie— do you think I'd make a good airline hostess?" Julie closed her eyes. She did not want to answer that question. Betz was so undecided about what she wanted from life that every time she met someone in an interesting occupation, she wondered if that was the career for her. Last week she wanted to be a foreign correspondent because Professor Greenman had praised her work in their journalism class, then, two days later, she thought it might be worthwhile to be a dental assistant. That was after she had been to her dentist. Betz was trying to find herself, Julie thought with 498 tender compassion. She was a brilliant student, and her grades were so high that her parents did not worry about her. Now she had seen the pretty, efficient airline hostess and wondered if that was what she wanted to be. "T could fly around the world," Betz said, dreamily. "Why don't we both be airline hostesses, Julie? Oh, I forgot,'' she added with a shrug, "you want to marry Ron and have a sweet little family. You don't want to accomplish things in this world." "T call that a great accomplishment," Julie answered tightly. Sue hoped Aunt Isabelle and Grandfather would appreciate Betz' good qualities and forgive her talk about what she was going to accomplish in this world. Julie often wondered, in her quiet way, how Betz would meet both disappointment and _ hardship when something had to be overcome instead of merely talked about. It was easy to be a brave talker when you had loving parents, as Betz had, who gave in to her in every way. "I'm going to sleep," Julie said, leaning back against the pillow with a wistful sigh. Leaving Sydney last August to go to school at the University of Southern California had been entirely Grandfather's idea. Neither Aunt Isabelle, nor any of the Ridgehaven family would have interfered with his decision. They knew he wanted his grandchildren to learn something about other countries. Julie and Ron had wanted to marry and go to the University in Perth, Western Australia, where Ron was studying for his b engineering degree. But Grandfather had made an ironclad rule for all his grandchildren. Each must have a degree from a university before marriage. He did this because his eldest son, Robert Ridgehaven, Julie's father, had married without his permission. Robert had met her mother, Noreen McKane, while he was in England with a battalion of the Australian Army. She was a pretty Irish girl, and he asked the branch president to introduce them at a branch dinner. Later, the president and his wife invited them to dinner. They had fallen in love and were married two weeks later. Ten years later, Uncle John, grandfather's youngest son, had married Cleo, a girl from the bush. This made grandfather more determined than ever to enforce his decision. Grandmother had even asked Bishop Sloan to reason with him, but he would not change his mind. 'Australians must be educated," he said. 'So I will start with my own family." ArTer the war Julie's parents had gone to one of the Ridgehaven properties, at Dry Creek in the bush of Western Australia. Julie was born there a year later, with only her father and an Aborigine woman to help. When Julie was nine years old, her parents had both died in a devastating bush fire that destroyed their home and _ their sheep. Julie and Ron McLaren, an TELL ME OF LOVE eleven-year-old boy from the next station, had been playing badminton on a court in the paddock not far from the house at the time. They heard the crackling roar of the fire and saw the flames hemming them in from all directions. "Mummie! Daddy!" Julie had screamed, running for the house. But Ron had grabbed her hand and pulled her into a deep pit nearby. They were the only ones alive in a ghostly desert of ashy cinders, crumbling houses, and dead sheep. Six days later, Aunt Isabelle, who had come from Sydney with a search party, had found them there. They had survived on carrots, potatoes, and sweet pickles stored for emergency use in the pit. Aunt Isabelle took them both home to Sydney and nursed them back to health. She was devoted to the Ridgehaven family and to Ron. Grandfather and Grannie had adopted him and reared him as their very own. But Aunt Isabelle had puzzled Julie. Why did she keep postponing the date of her marriage to big, kind, generous Dr. George McGregor? Julie remembered hearing Grannie scold Aunt Isabelle late one night, six years ago. "Why do you act so strangely, Isabelle? Dr. George has been eager to marry you for the last two years. You make all sorts of ridiculous excuses—yet I know you love him. Last month as soon as your teaching position was over, you insisted on that sudden holiday to Perth. And, alone, Isabelle. Now tell me why?" Julie could not hear Aunt Isabelle's answer, but it evidently 499 JULY 1966 did not satisfy Grannie, who said: "I feel like a mother bird who should push you out of the nest and make you face the world. Dr. George is a fine doctor who wants to carry out his plans while he is still young and vigorous enough to brave the outback. You should go with him, Isabelle." There was a long silence. Julie had hurried away to her own room. Why had Aunt Isabelle refused to answer Grannie—Aunt Isabelle who was always so calm and invincible? Julie couldn't sleep, wondering about it. Six months later Grannie had died, and Aunt Isabelle told everyone she was needed at home. But Aunt Tricia and Uncle Geoffrey had offered to come and take care of Grandfather, and Julie, and Ron. And Wally, their son, told Julie they could all have a beaut of a time, living at Grandfather's. But Aunt Isabelle refused the offer. Soon after that Dr. George gave up his practice in Sydney and went to the great, wild, country north of Perth, three thousand miles away. He started a medical clinic and made himself available to go by plane when he was needed in the bush. It had been his boyhood dream to help people who had no way of getting to a doctor. After he had gone away, Aunt Isabelle was only a shadow of herself. She could not eat, and Julie would hear her up in the night, restless and grieving. But her pride was a wall around her. She would not admit her mistake. She did not mention his name, and no one, not even Aunt Tricia, asked her about him. She was as unyielding in her decisions and as 500 self-controlled as Grandfather, who had sailed the seven seas with the Royal Navy before he was retired and settled down in Sydney. He and Aunt Isabelle would have considered it an insult to the Crown and the P. M. To give way to their emotions or forsake their duty in any way. A little sick feeling came over Julie as she realized they did not make decisions without careful consideration, and they would not have sent a cablegram for her to return unless it was very urgent. Who was ill, maybe dying? Her heart questioned. Why hadn't Aunt Isabelle added one more word to that cablegram? She should remember that Julie was half Irish, with the emotional temperament of the Irish. She was like her mother, regardless of her rigid upbringing. Her Irish nature was always flashing through like the red-gold in her brown hair and the shiny glints in her blue eyes and the freckles that splashed her nose. Away back in her ancestry, Julie was sure there was someone who played the flute or read poetry on a green hillside or danced and sang in the woods looking for leprechauns. If she had been Aunt Isabelle she would have married Dr. George McGregor and gone with him to the NeverNever Land. Her mother had gone there with her father twenty-two years ago, when it was one of the most sparsely populated areas in the world. It was still desolate and barren, but since World War II, there were thousands of new Australians who wanted to make it prosperous and livable. Julie always felt happy that there were still people in the world who had the spirit and courage of the pioneers of her own religion. Her mother and father had taught her to pray and have faith and trust in her Heavenly Father. So now, she lifted her heart to him and prayed for each one of the Ridgehaven family: big redheaded Uncle Geoffrey, who was a construction engineer for the Opera House being built on Sydney Harbor; his wife, lovely darkhaired Aunt Tricia, who always made Julie think of an old Chinese proverb: "A woman without religion is like a flower without fragrance." Aunt Tricia lived her religion. The fragrance of her faith helped her to comfort Uncle Geoffrey so that they could overcome the tragedy when their little daughter had fallen from a high rock while playing on a ridge above their home. She and Uncle Geoffrey had Wally to live for; he was Julie's age, twenty-one, tall and redheaded like Uncle Geoffrey, with a carefree, rollicking laugh. He was studying (because Grandfather insisted) to get a university degree so he could marry Sue Ellen Grant, one of the loveliest girls in Sydney. Julie hoped she would wait for him. A little smile tipped Julie's lips as she remembered the difference between Aunt Tricia and Aunt Cleo, Uncle John's wife. It had taken ten years of patient, untiring effort on Aunt Tricia's part to polish off the rough edges TELL ME OF LOVE of Aunt Cleo's early life in the bush, so she could conform to Grandfather's conventional ideas. Grandfather liked Aunt Cleo now. He didn't wince anymore when she spoke, because Aunt Tricia had gently, but firmly, weeded out the jargon of the locality where she had been born and reared. Now, she went to Relief Society with Aunt Tricia, and she loved the lessons. She stopped using a brilliant yellow glint on her hair, and Aunt Tricia went with her to buy her clothes. Grandfather loved and enjoyed their little sons, Kip and Brown, who were named for the poets Kipling and Browning. But underneath the new polish, Aunt Cleo was still Aunt Cleo who sometimes laughed too loudly when Aunt Tricia wasn't around, still walked with a bounce, and piled her hair on top of her head topsy-turvy fashion. Her children and Uncle John adored her, and Julie loved to be with all of them. Aunt Cleo was their playmate; she could hike and hunt, and was a better shot than some of the men in the family. "Another university degree," Aunt Cleo had laughed, when Kip was born a year ago. "Grandfather'"—her voice trembled in spite of her laughter—"you will be proud of us yet. These little Aussies have the blood and thunder of the real Australian pioneers flowing in their veins." "And the blood of the EnglishAustralian gentleman," Grandfather had added, as his chin lifted proudly. I love all those dear ones, Julie thought. She even remembered Casey Jones, Ron's big old Kelpie out on Grandfather's prop- 501 JULY 1966 erty. He must be lonely, too, living there, and only seeing Ron once in awhile when he came back from Perth. Julie's eyes squeezed tight to hold the tears back. Please, take care of Ron, she _ whispered. Wherever he is out in that great, wild, beautiful country, take care of him and let us be together soon. Real soon. The big plane roared on its way. Most of the passengers had settled down to read or sleep, and, at last, Julie drifted off into a long, dreamless slumber. Miany hours later she was awakened as the voice of the stewardess came clearly over the loud speaker. "Attention, everyone! We are now landing on the Fiji Islands, the paradise of the Pacific. We will take off from here in exactly one hour. Please synchronize your watches with mine. We have passed the international date line. It is now five am. A new day. Have a happy visit in Fiji." "Fiji!" Julie sat upright looking at Betz with wide, unbelieving blue eyes. '"Where was I when we stopped at Honolulu?" "This plane doesn't stop at Honolulu," Betz told her. "Julie, this is Miss Carolyn Bridges, matron at the Royal Hospital in Perth. She is a graduate of the University where Ron is now. That should wake you up!" "Oh, it does!" Julie smiled at the woman across the aisle. She was about Aunt Isabelle's age, in her early forties. "I'm happy to meet you, Miss Bridges.. Have you ever heard of Ron McLaren out there? He's in the engineering school." 502 "No, my dear." Miss Bridges smiled indulgently. "I wish I could say I had. He must be a fine young man. There are so many new students this. Year, especially in the engineering school. Australia expects great things from them." "Oh, yes!" Julie exclaimed. "Ron will be an hydraulic engineer. In his last letter...." "Come on, Julie," Betz cut in. "We have one hour to see Fiji." "What is your last name?" Miss Bridges asked Julie as they started down the aisle. "Ridgehaven," Julie answered, feeling a surge of pride as she always did when she said the family name. "Ridgehaven," Miss Bridges repeated. "Are you a relative of John Robert Ridgehaven?" "He is my Grandfather," Julie answered. "Do you know him?" "IT have heard of him," she said. "He represents the grand old part of Australia that we don't want to lose. He has done much for education with both his money and his influence. We have advanced in recent years and have established great universities."" Then she added thoughtfully, "Your Grandfather must be quite elderly by now. Is he well?" Fear tightened Julie's throat. Is he well? Her heart repeated. Was Grandfather the emergency? Oh, no, she almost cried out. Grandfather was the anchor of the Ridgehaven family. He was their guardian and their guiding light. She drew a long breath for courage as she lifted her head and went down the steps from the airplane. (To be continued) Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Harry (Bertha Marion) Holt, sixtyone, of Cresswell, Oregon, was named American Mother of the Year at the Shoreham Hotel, Washington, D. C., the evening of May 4, 1966. In 1955, the Holts added eight Korean children to their own six in their farm home, and soon founded an adoption program which has been responsible for 3,500 Korean waifs. An orphanage of thirtysix buildings houses 557 children. Mrs. Holt has a nurse's degree from the University of lowa and has written a book about the orphan project. Mrs. Harvey Fletcher, of Utah, last year's national mother, presented the citation to Mrs. Holt. Mrs. Wallace F. Bennett, wife of Utah's senior Senator (daughter of former L. D. S.. Church President Heber J. Grant) was honorary chairman of the affair, and she presented half of the State Mothers as they took their bows. Three of the fifty State Mothers were Latterday Saints. Mrs. Vida Driggs Brinton, teacher, organizer of recreation, charity worker and mother of eight children, from Mesa, represented Arizona. Mrs. Annetta Vincent Wood, teacher, community and Church worker, and mother of five, from Oakland, was the California Mother. Mrs. Irene Thompson Fletcher, of Logan, Utah, married a professor with eight children, bore six, Carried on her work as an artist, and inspired several of the children to become artists. A highlight of the dinner entertainment came when one hundred Relief Society Singing Mothers from Washington and Potomac Stakes, under the expert leadership of Ellen N. Barnes, General Board member, sang five numbers. Edith Iglauer, wife of the New Yorker writer Philip Hamburger, is the author of an informative and emotionally appealing book on the Eskimos, The New People (Doubleday Company). The book relates the experiences and attitudes of the Eskimos during the initiation and development of a Canadian Government program to help the Indians achieve a degree of independence through preparing and marketing the commodities available to them, and in establishing credit unions. Some of the products being marketed include muktuk (whale skin), corned and roasted seal meat, sweet-and-sour whale, walrus flippers vinaigrette, and frozen char, a delicious fish, similar to salmon. Mrs. Jerrie Mock, the ''flying Grandmother,'' achieved the non-stop distance record for women, in April. She bettered the record previously held by three Russian women. She flew the great circle route 4,550 miles. Mrs Mock already held the record of being the first woman to fly across the Pacific Ocean from west to east, and the first woman to fly a single-engine plane across the Pacific in any direction. Dr. Katharine Boucot, chairman of the department of preventive medicine at Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania, is a noted scientist in cancer research. Her studies indicate that lung cancer is five times as prevalent among heavy smokers as among occasional smokers, and in one investigation no lung cancer was found. Among 805 nonsmokers. 503 504 EDITORIAL Volume 53 July 1966 Number 7 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Eltiott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson trene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lita B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles fdythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtie R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West A PATTERN FOR THE DAUGHTERS OF ZION Sing, O daughter of Zion... Be glad and rejoice with all the heart.... The Lord hath taken away thy judgments, he has cast out thine enemy.... Thou shalt not see evil any more (Zephaniah 3:14-15). There are many women who seem to be blessed with an inward quietude, with a _ serene strength. It is not that their lives have been easy, or that they have received a full measure of temporal blessings, rather, it would appear, they have learned patience and self-discipline, and in all their comings and goings, in all their joys and their trials, they have been comforted, encouraged, and enlightened by faith. It is as if a great light had been placed along their pathways, revealing the purposes of earth, and establishing a testament of guidance from the beginning to the farewell time of mortal life. It is as if there had been developed and _ exercised continually a reverence for the teachings of the Master—hold thy peace; be just and forgiving; judge not; speak no evil... Await the certain coming of the Lord. Such attitudes and beliefs are not fully achieved in the lives of most of us, yet, to a degree and in a certain measure, all are aware of these objectives. All of us have observed that among women there are those whose mastery of self has become so evident, that they are able and willing to give to others some part of their own great store of spiritual richness. Who among us can give to others that which she does not herself possess? Herein, perhaps, lies the basis for individual progress and for effectiveness in all group relationships—in the family, among friends, in civic responsibility and participation, in our devotion to Relief Society. We ourselves need to be of worth, and, from that faith and strength, seek out and establish ourselves in further fields of usefulness. It may be noted, often with great significance, that there are special graces and attributes which endear a woman to her associates, and can be regarded as feminine adornments. A truly devoted woman would wish to give the richness of her love to those deserving her concern, even if she knew that her love could not presently be returned. She would desire to serve without the recompense of visible appreciation. Another grace of womanhood would be a true concern for the welfare and happiness of those who walk adjoining paths on the way to eternal life, empathy and discernment extending in a most kind and gracious manner to those who are in most urgent need. These would be the children, who are helpless and dependent in the beginning of life; and the aged, who, again, cannot meet their physical and spiritual needs alone. Others in need would be those who are ill, whose bodies have been injured, or whose spirits have been impaired and broken. A further attribute of womanly grace and accomplishment is a mastery of words, especially a mastery of those words which never should be expressed. Sharp and bitter words are for permanent discarding—not for use. Wisdom and strength are the endowments of the woman who is able to think before she speaks, and then, sometimes not to speak at all, until a new and better subject has come up for discussion. Placing first things first is an accomplishment not easily acquired. The byways of life are often adorned with outward enticements. The nearest responsibility is sometimes dressed in drab apparel. The mere asking—what are the antecedents of this small measure of time over which | have some control, and what will be the progeny of this moment in a later year—the mere asking of this question is not easy, and its answer may be hard. Sometimes, even after we have truly measured and evaluated a responsibility, we may feel that we have a right to certain freedoms in view of our limited strength. It is then that there may be found some avenues of light and joy that, at first, had seemed not to be inherent in the precedence of time and effort. Our time, our lives are not ours alone. They are gifts from our Heavenly Father, as the words of the seventy-fourth Psalm have expressed for us: ''The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. Thou has set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter." —V. P. C. 505 Tt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Resigns From the General Board - It is with regret that the General Board announces the resignation of Wealtha S. Mendenhall from the General Board of Relief Society as of April 27, 1966. The resignation was tendered because of the necessity of prolonged absences from Salt Lake City of Sister Mendenhall as the business interests of Brother Mendenhall call him away from Utah. In the nine years that Sister Mendenhall has served on the General Board, she has given valued service 'in every assignment that has come to her. She has placed devotion to Relief Society work in the forefront of her life, and her personal desires second. She came to the Board with a rich experience of Relief Society work, and has served as chairman of the visiting teacher committee, on the literary contests committees, and presidencies department of General Conference, among others. Her last assignment was to a visiting teacher convention. The members of the General Board and Relief Society sisters throughout the world who are acquainted with Sister Mendenhall extend to her their love and gratitude for her years of service and best wishes for her future well-being and happiness. Elemental = Eileen Giberson: I don't care what anybody says — I grew up in Western Oregon and I love the rain.: The sound of rain' is beautiful. It makes me feel cozy, curled up in the chair by the fire or snuggled under the blankets in my bed. I like to hear it tapping on the roof and at the windowpane. The sight of rain is refreshing, because the world becomes greener, and browner, and newer. And to he out in the rain just for a walk, with boots and raincoat and umbrella, ah, that is something very special — that is the feel of rain. How I love it! « My children are growing up in Eastern Washington. The sun is their companion. It stays for the winter to brighten the tan, dry days. It coaxes the crocus into bloom in mid-February. It|/browns the children by May, and in July it sends them to the swimming pool in self-defense. When that sun comes up in the cloudless blue sky, it means @ good wash day; it means a good play — Out here in this flat desert land, the gun arises early and stays hot and ate.: I love it, too. 506 They Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Ida A. Isaacson My two great-grandmothers knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Flora Clorinda Gleason Washburn, and Cathrine Hulet Winget. My great-grandmother, Flora Clorinda Gleason Washburn lived with the Prophet Joseph Smith's father's family for a time. She received her patriarchal blessing at the hands of John Smith, the Prophet's uncle. She lived for a time at Macedonia, Illinois, and was chosen president of the local Relief Society (the second president in the Church) and was set apart by the Prophet Joseph Smith. My great-grandmother, Cathrine Hulet Winget relates in her history that: In 1830, when I was but ten years of age, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Parley P. Pratt came to my father's house and held a meeting. The Prophet bore testimony to finding the plates that contained The Book of Mormon. Although being so young, I well remember that testimony. A short time after this the Prophet moved to a place called Hyrum, only seven miles from where my father lived. I used to attend meetings there and enjoyed very much hearing him talk. I heard him preach that Sunday after a mob had tarred and feathered, and beaten him and Sidney Rigdon so badly. I remember the time the mob threatened to shoot the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother, Hyrum Smith, but instead they put them in the Liberty Jail along with several other brethren; providing they promised to surrender their arms and leave the state the following spring. We left the State of Missouri in the spring of 1840 and moved to the State of Illinois. We settled thirty miles below Nauvoo. In the fall I attended the first conference ever held in Nauvoo. It was held out of doors. There was considerable sickness there that fall and many of the people attending the conference were pale and sickly. While there, I went to the house of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He had three Egyptian mummies in his room. I saw them standing against the wall. THE LEGACY Bertha A. Kleinman Our own is the Valley Beautiful impaled on the desert sod, A wasteland reclaimed and bountiful where the feet of Founders trod. Our own is the sun-drenched esplanade bequeathing its legacies Of fruited branches and Eden shade as long as we save the trees! In the pride of our cabled thoroughfares and the far-flung boulevard, Be proudful too of the miles of trees that dapple the dusty sward. Come out in the lanes where the children play in their sheltered rendezvous, Where the boughs that rock and swing and sway are the trees on the avenue. Nurture and save, let no orchard die, nor withered a thirsted grove, The Valieys can only be beautiful with trees for their treasure-trove. 507 Hazel K. Todd @ Faith, fair as the flowers of her pioneer valley, tripped with singing footsteps home, along the winding path to Grandma Leth's. The wild roses that had squatted at the side of the trail in a tangled bramble all sixteen of her eighteen years, tonight held out perfume-laden branches to her. The brook that had tumbled over the moss-slick pebbles since she could remember, now crooned soft love syllables as it slipped under the willow bridge. Even Herod, the pithy old owl, that she had named long ago, winked at her knowingly from his scraggly cottonwood tree. She fancied she heard him whisper in his cracked voice, "I know why you are so happy, Faith. It is because Joel asked you to marry him, and you are in love." Herod didn't say also, '"'Grandma Leth will not be happy with you, because Joel has no bag of the gold she has been waiting for all these eighteen years. He is a pioneer boy, and if you marry him you will have to work and dig and slave, just as all the people of the valley have done since Brigham Young sent them 508 to settle here." Faith shut her ears so Herod could not say those words to her. "T will not tell Grandma," she said to herself, "but when Joel comes tomorrow, Grandma will see that he is big and strong and fine. And she will forget about the money." But she didn't know that Grandma Leth had not lived for more than seventy years without learning special things. She knew the shortness in her breath meant there was not much time left, and she knew the light of fulfillment in a girl's eyes when love had touched her. So Faith stood at the door of the cabin and gazed out into the bright morning. "Grandma," she said with her hands behind her against the mud-chinked wall, "the roses along the path were gay last night. I think they have never smelled so sweet." Grandma laid down the reed basket she was weaving to sell at the little store. Grandma was old and wrinkled and her back was bent from long years of toil. Her hands were hard and twisted into the shape, of the reed braids they had woven. But there was a light in her eyes which told there was still youth in her heart, like the brightness of hope or the fire of determination. "Faith," she said, "what are you waiting for?" Faith dropped her eyes to the pattern on the hard dirt floor. "IT thought, Grandma, that maybe today the one with the bag of money would come up the path and carry me away." Grandma Leth looked at Faith, from her flaxen hair to her bare, brown feet, as if she had never seen anyone half so lovely before. "Have you seen such a one?" she asked. Faith went to her, slowly, with faltering steps. ''"Grandma," she said, "why must the one for me have a bag of money? I have strong hands and I can work. You have taught me to work." "It is Joel," Grandma said then, and Faith was sure it must be disappointment she heard in her voice. "It is Joel, and he has nothing to give you." Faith knelt on the dirt floor before her grandparent. ''Oh, yes, Grandma, he has much to give. He has given me his love. And I would rather have it than all the bags of gold in the world." "Love! What is that?'' Grandma snorted. "It is a silly thing! It cannot bring the things we have waited for these many years!" Faith laid her fair head in Grandma's lap and wept tears of anguish. What Faith couldn't see, was that Grandma's eyes, too, were wet. But she swept the tears away with her gnarled old hand. BAG OF GOLD "Come, child, we have things to do." Faith rose disconsolately to her slender height. '"What things, Grandma?" she asked. But there was no heart in her voice. "We have waited too long," Grandma said. '"'We will go and find him." Fairy gazed at the old lady. All her life but two years when she was too little to know, she had lived in the valley. Once long ago, before her grandmother joined the Church she had lived in an eastern city. And Faith's own mother whom Faith couidn't remember, had lived in that same city in a wealthy home. And her mother had married Grandma Leth's son so that her own people had disowned her because of their religion. They had come across the plains when Faith was a tiny baby. And President Brigham Young had called them, with others, to settle the valley. But her father had been shot with an arrow by an Indian. And _ her grandfather had died of a fever. And her mother, who, somehow Faith knew, was homesick and sad, had died also. And they were all three buried under the great cottonwood tree beyond the creek, with the other dead of the valley. Never in Faith's own life had they been beyond the ridge of rugged mountains that encircled their valley. Where, in this faraway place could they find a man with a bag of gold! From the shelf over the bed Grandma took the box that held the shoes that had belonged to Faith's mother. Faith watched while Grandma lifted them from 509 JULY 1966 the yellowed paper wrapping. They were high laced shoes, with shiny tips on the toes that Grandma had kept shiny from the soot of the kettle that hung in the fireplace. Faith had never seen the people of the valley wear such shoes. "Here," Grandma said, "'you cannot go to find the rich one with no shoes." Always before Grandma had said, "Your feet are lovely. They need no shoes." Wonderingly, Faith put the shoes on and laced the long laces. Now Grandma took the brown clay pot that held the pieces of money from the basket sales over many years. She dumped its contents onto the bed and began heaping it into piles, counting each shiny piece. Faith gazed in astonishment at the money now being scooped into the old brown bag. Ped THEN, in the corner, from the old trunk: that had been carried across the plains, came the silky dress and the velvet cape. Grandma pulled the cape around her shoulders and held out to Faith the elegant dress she had never been allowed to touch. "Your mother's," she said. Faith followed with a sinking heart, out the door and down the winding path. When Joel came they would be gone and the love she had so newly found would be lost. And then she saw him coming up the path, his long sinewy legs striding across the worn footprints, his shoulders straight and strong in the bright sunshine. "Where are you going?" he asked, with his eyes drinking in the loveliness of her. 510 Faith dropped her eyes to the path, for she could not bear to see his face when Grandma told him. "If someone had twenty bags of gold, he could not hold so much love for Faith as I," he said. "I am strong and willing to work." But Grandma was pulling her down the path and she could not wait. She turned and watched him standing there by the rosebushes, and she wished there was no gold in all the world. "T will be waiting for you," he called. "Every day I will be waiting here in the path." "Where, Grandma, will we find the one with the bag of gold?" Faith asked obediently, for her grandmother was all she had, and she had given her everything she had known. "We will go to your mother's people," she said. "The years will have worn away the bitterness." Faith looked at her Grandmother wonderingly. Her mother's people were never mentioned to her. She knew very little of them. "But it is so far,'' she said, knowing only that it was in some far-off city across the weary plains, so remote to her as to be impenetrable. "There are ways now, if you have money," Grandma said. Her hands touched the lumps in the brown bag, "Ways for those going east, those who do not wish to stay in the valleys of the mountains." "But, Grandma, truly you have never been sorry you came to the mountains. You have always said the mountains were an emblem of our religion—everlasting." "Hush, child,' Grandma said tersely. "There were promises made...." "What promises?" Faith asked. But the sharp determined clicking of Grandma's walking stick on the rocks of the trail were her only answer. Faith followed obediently, oblivious of the slick moss of the rocks or the sweet perfumery of the roses. She awakened to her new surroundings with a quick sharp pang of uneasiness she had never before known. The tiny window in the cabin where the sun rays splashed onto her patchwork quilt, had suddenly grown to a wide, deep window covered with heavy draperies of unknown richness. Her eyes traveled from the curtained window that hid the sunshine up the flowered wallpaper and across the room to the walnut dresser and washstand with its big white pitcher and bowl. And then she remembered. SHE remembered, vividly, last night coming with her grandma in the coach with the fine horses, to the strange tall house in the city. She remembered being ushered into the great house by a man whom the woman afterward called Jones. She remembered standing before the tall, sedate lady, who, her grandma said was the mother of that far-away misty mother whom she had _ never known. "This forsaken creature, Ruth's child!" the new grandmother had said, eyeing her critically. Faith had suddenly clung to Grandma Leth and said, "Please, Grandma, let's go home!"' But Grandma Leth had pushed her forward, and the strange BAG OF GOLD grandmother had laid her hand falteringly on her shoulder and looked earnestly into her face. And, suddenly, there had been tears in her eyes that she had wiped away with a lace handkerchief. Then there had been sharp words and questions and answers, explanations and crying and tense pauses. Grandma Leth had explained that Faith's mother was dead and buried back in the valley under the cottonwood tree, and that her father was dead there, too; that she still believed in her strange religion which she had taught to Faith. Grandma Leth held Faith's hand and said, "She is Ruth's child. Ruth could never quite give up all this." Her eyes swept over the luxurious room, "She didn't want to come back. But she couldn't give it up. I promised her I would bring Faith here before she married. I have taught her that the one she marries must have a bag of gold, so there will be no regrets, no sadness, no undecided questions." The tall grandmother pulled herself up regally and gazed at Grandma Leth with a strange excitement. '""You have been wise," she said. Then her eyes grew suddenly bright. "I will take her away from you." She came a step closer, and it seemed she looked scornfully at the withered frame of old Grandma Leth. "For I have a bag of gold, you know." So Grandma Leth had gone away. Faith had run to her and clung to her, but Grandma had loosened her hands with her own twisted fingers, and turned away. "But, Grandma," Faith wept, "when will I see you again?" Grandma's old eyes were full 511 JULY 1966 of fire. "When you are sure of the bag of gold," she said. The sagging shoulders straightened in the velvet cape, and Grandma Leth melted away into the frightening mist of strangeness. Then, as Faith remembered, she looked up at the silk ruffled canopy over her bed. She slid her hand hesitatingly along the satiny quilt, and touched with awe the great fluffy pillow. Presently she slid her legs carefully over the edge of the high bed onto the soft carpet. Gone were her mother's shoes and silky dress. But there were strange new clothes. She cried silently inside as she fitted the new things to her slender body. THEN the new grandmother was sitting in the ruffled pink chair and talking softly and brightly. "This was your mother's room, Faith," she said, her eyes seeming to miss no tiny spot of Faith. "She grew up from a little girl here until—until she went away and left me for a boy with a new and hated religion." Faith listened dutifully while all inside her ached with homesickness. "Tt can be your room now," the grandmother said, leaning forward breathlessly. "'All the things you want can be yours." And Faith knew not what to say, so she said nothing. There were beautiful dresses, hats and shoes, umbrellas and fans.. There were parties and operas and theaters. There were cousins and aunts and uncles and new friends. And there was a handsome boy named James. Grandma brought his family for dinner one day when Faith had 512 learned more about the new life. They were rich and influential and very proper folks, the father, his wife, a sister, and James. She liked James. He had a quick, gay smile, and he could laugh at her strange mannerisms and her country ways. After dinner the two walked slowly all about the garden. When they came to the bench under the chestnut tree, he sat down and pulled her down beside him. "Do you have a bag of gold?" she asked seriously. He looked at her quizzically and laughed. "You are a mercenary little thing," he said, and pinched the end of her nose playfully. But more seriously, he added, "I guess you could say I have a bag of gold for the right person." After that James came to the house often. And Faith smiled at him brightly, for he was entertaining, and she liked him. And her grandmother smiled, too, assuredly. There were theaters and dances and rides in coaches in the park. Once James asked her to dance in the place where they were dining. She was filled with homesickness, floating with him over the floor. "Where," he asked, looking at her keenly, "in your Indian country, did you learn to dance like that?" "With Joel at all the Church dances," she said. "Who is Joel?" he asked with quick interest. "He is the one who has no bag of gold," she said, looking away from him, for there were tears in her eyes. He was quiet after that. They danced silently around the floor. He stopped by the big window filled with starry sky. He held her hand quietly and a smile ever so slight touched his lips, as he looked into her solemn face. "I think," he said, "you found your bag of gold long before I found you." But her thoughts were too far away to understand what he was saying. And then, when she had said good night and found her grandmother waiting for her, she suddenly remembered his words and she stopped to wonder at them. "My dear," her grandmother said, coming to meet her, "you look lovely. Did James say something especially nice tonight?' Herr grandmother's eyes were bright with anticipation, and she put her arm affectionately around Faith's shoulder. Faith looked questioningly into her grandmother's glad face. ""He said," she answered thoughtfully, "he said I had already found the bag of gold before he found me." "Before he found you?" Her grandmother's voice trailed off into silence. She stood silent a time, and then she said, with over-gaiety in her voice, as if to assure herself, "But you are happy here, Faith. You do like James, don't you?" "Oh, yes, yes, Grandmother. Only...." "Only what?" The grandmother stood waiting as if she had always known since Faith had come to her, that it must end this way, but she must still cling to hope. "Only—I—I—I want to go home." Her eyes filled with tears. BAG OF GOLD "T want my Grandma Leth. I want the little church house and the saints of the valley, and the meadow grass, and the graves under the cottonwood tree. I want my cabin with the dirt floor and the mud-chinked walls. And I want...." She lowered her eyes to hide the tears. "I want Joel, who has no bag of gold, but who is willing to work and love and worship with me." She stood crying softly while her tall grandmother slowly but steadily came forward and put her arms around her lovingly. "Yes, my darling," she said. She stepped to the door and called Jones. For a time she talked to him. And then she came back to Faith. "Your grandma will be here soon," she said. "But where....?" "She has been waiting," she said simply. A soft sigh like a whisper came from her lips. "You will leave me just as your mother left me. Only you will go with my blessing, just as your mother should have gone. Perhaps, then, she would not have been uncertain." She turned to the window and pulled aside the curtain and stared into the starry night. "Perhaps," she said thoughtfully, "perhaps there could be a bag of gold for me out there, too, in your valley." Faith turned to the grandmother, then, with new recognition shining in her eyes. "Oh, yes, Grandmother. Now I know why Grandma Leth brought me here. It was so I would know for sure. Don't you see? Joel is waiting there on the path with my bag of gold. The valley is filled with gold—enough for all!" 513 REVERIE IN MEADOW GRASS Peggy Tangren This meadow is a world within a world Of little things that crawl and creep in shade Of leaf and stone. Of wings not yet unfurled Laid camouflaged against the tall green blade. The draglines of the ant have mapped their land For keeping life, or bringing back the dead Around a lake the size of my cupped hand, And under girders strung of spider thread. | Deep in this meadow grass are town and shire Built to the level of an insect's eye. Hunger is here, frustration, and desire; And over them the stems rise strong and high, Their forest, as my forest is to me, Dwarfing them as redwoods dwarf us all. What fearsome moving monster must | be— l, who am a hundred grass blades tall. Will go softly through the meadow grass Breathing a benediction as | pass. Mt | ' the Home inside and out Kathryn E. Franks Plans LF\ @ The Dickson family sat in a circle on their living room rug. They were gathered together for a family council to decide where they should spend their family vacation. For days Father had collected maps, pamphlets, and advertisements on summer resorts. Sally, twelve years old, had gathered information on the National Parks. Nearly every student in her class, she argued, had seen at least two National Parks. Sally was determined to see two (preferably three) famous parks this summer. Billy, age nine, had definitely decided the family should visit a Dude Ranch in the high Tetons. A cowboy's life for him, with boots, saddle, and spurs! Dotty, age four, had investigated nothing. She demanded that they stay on the West Coast and go to the beach as usual. As the children disputed each other's wishes, Father shifted his position, but said nothing. Mother listened quietly, also, considering every angle. Either she nodded her head in agreement, or shook it in doubt. However, the children had a; aft Se) Vacation | Wk 1 pl shaky feeling from past experiences that, even though she was quiet she was biding her time. They were correct. All the while she had been listening she had hugged her old black photograph album in her arms. It was the album the children enjoyed looking at because of its amusing pictures of their Mother's childhood. The moment the debate subsided, Mother cunningly opened the album and spoke. "I think you all have perfectly wonderful ideas. Now I have a wish... A most ideal spot for a two weeks' vacation. "Tt would take us back to the Middle West, to my girlhood home... Back to the woods where my family camped each summer beside a winding river. We could camp in tents, cook over a campfire, and put up hammocks. You children could explore the woods, fish, climb the trees, and, perhaps, build a small flatboat, or build a tree house. Father could catch up on his reading, fish, and just plain rest!" Father looked a bit dumbfounded, but said nothing. "Oh, Mother," sighed Sally, 515 JULY 1966 "it sounds creepy. I'd die if I had to spend two weeks in those old woods. What would I do... Just walk around, looking at the birds, and butterflies...?" "In fact, yes. That is what I thought you could do," answered Mother. "Oh, joy,' smirked Billy. "Well... Err... Ah," muttered Dotty, not quite getting the idea. "Please," said Father, "let's just take a look at that book." They all stood around Mother as she turned the worn pages of her album to the camping pictures, snapped during her family's camping vacation. Their five heads crowded together, trying to get a better view of the snapshots. "What are those things hanging on the tree limbs there beside the tent?" Father asked, looking closely at the snapshot on the upper left. "Oh, those were my _ little brother Tod's clothes," Mother chuckled, remembering. "He fell into the river...."" She could hardly tell it for giggling... "With his clothes on. My mother had to pull him out, pull off his clothes and hang them up there on the limb to dry. He had to stay inside the tent until his clothes dried." It must have been funny, the family decided, for Mother's laugh went right on up the scale. "Didn't he have any dry clothes?" Dotty asked, looking concerned. Mother laughed even harder now. "No. As I remember, he had fallen in the day before. There weren't any dry clothes." "Mom," asked Sally, studying the picture at the extreme left, 516 "who is the boy standing beside the tent flap, the one with the bandaged toe?" "That," explained Mother between giggles, "is your Uncle John's friend, Dave. He stuck his toe too close to a nasty turtle. We thought that toe would never stop bleeding." Mother's laugh faltered at this point and died down. "Oh, how exciting,' commented Billy, coming to attention. "Who is the girl standing in front of the tree?" Father asked. "Looks as if she had measles." Mother bent closer and examined the picture. 'Oh, that's my cousin Louise... No... Those were not measles."' She concentrated a moment longer. "I know now. Those were mosquito bites. The mosquitoes simply ate her up. She does look as if she had measles, though, doesn't she?" "What in the world was all that stuff piled behind the tents in this corner picture?" Father asked, baffled. "T'd_ forgotten about that," Mother said. "There had been a terrific electrical storm the night before. Sometime after midnight, we moved out of those tents fast! We had to pull the tents down and lug them to the cars before the wind tore them apart. You should have seen us kids scrambling for the inside of those touring cars, while the thunder and lightning popped and crackled around us." Mother's laugh had stopped suddenly, like an old Model T going uphill. "I hated those storms," she said, shuddering. "You didn't answer my ques- tion," Father reminded her. "Oh, yes, that stuff piled behind the tents. Those were twigs and branches we had to clear away before we could pitch tents the next morning: Were we hungry before we had breakfast that morning!" "And why all the sacks and buckets hanging from the tree?" Sally asked, suddenly interested. "Mmmmm... Ants. They got into the food so badly my Mother had to hang the food in the trees. When they reached the food up there we had to carry it out to the little raft in the middle of the river. I remember we moved that food three or four times a day." "That sounds like fun," shouted Sally. "Let's go there,'' chimed in Billy. "We could live like Robinson Crusoe. I'd like to see one of those electrical storms. I'd climb right up to the top of one of those high trees and watch the light..." "Uh... Huh," Mother interrupted, looking suspiciously at Billy. "J bet you would!" "T wouldn't mind falling into the water," added Dotty, "be just like T. V." Mother eyed her dubiously. The corner of Father's mouth twitched as he held back a smile. "We could make a raft like Huckleberry Finn," said Sally, eagerly. VACATION PLANS "'Now, just a minute, children," Mother added quickly, "I think I may have been a little hasty. Let's look at those folders your father brought home. Let's study the maps...." Everyone rocked backwards, laughing—not at Mother, but with her. Even Dotty got the idea and stood up scratching her legs. "IT simply detest mosquitoes," she hissed through the gap in her front teeth. "You all understand," Mother said, "it was fun then. But I doubt if I could cope with the situations in the way my Mother did. I promise I won't get this old album out again." She leaned back and placed it upon the small table. "Now, what were you saying about summer resorts?" "Something with modern facilities?" Father asked, teasing. "Yes, something like that," Mother answered sheepishly. Resuming their circle, they tried to stop laughing. When they finally settled down, Father said, "What we'll promise to do if we are close, is to take your Mother back to her favorite childhood camping spot for just one day, for a real oldfashioned family picnic." With squeals and "hurrahs" they all agreed. ERRATUM — OMISSIONS ON MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1965 Through an oversight, the record of Juab Stake, Utah, was not listed on the Magazine Honor Roll published in the May 1966 Magazine. The record of Juab Stake was outstanding, with all of the wards achieving 100 per cent or over in Magazine subscriptions. Glendale Stake, California, was also omitted from the list of stakes in which all the wards achieved 100 per cent or over. East Los Angeles, with 128 per cent, was one of the ten stakes achieving' the highest percentages. 517 Passing Sunlight Ethel Hopper "This is my busy day," I said aloud to myself, as I hurried about my morning work. I was wondering how I was going to accomplish all the one hundred and one things I had planned to do this bright spring day. There were serious thoughts in my mind that morning; a neighbor, very dear to me, was ill. I had told her daughter, who was taking care of her, to let me know if there was anything I could do for her, and I would be right there. I lived only two blocks away. I remember saying, "And I mean anything." Just as I switched on the washing machine I heard the phone ring. I ran up the steps from the laundry. Sure enough, it was the daughter of my _ sick friend. "Come over," she said, "just as soon as you can." I did not wait for any explanation, just crashed down the receiver and dashed out of the door, never even thinking to get the car. To drive would have saved time and my breath, which was nearly gone from the flight up the basement steps. I ran all the way, but I am none too good at running, as I have a trick knee. When I hurry, I seem to be making much activity and not much advance. I did my best, however, and Marie looked surprised when I arrived so suddenly in the middle of the front room. "Oh! There you are," she said, "T am so glad you arrived before the sunshine passed from the branch of the apple blossoms that mother can see from her window. Each blossom shines with dew, and it looks like a Japanese print. Mother mentioned how she wished you could see it before the sun passes." I collapsed on the end of the bed, hardly able to _ breathe. Marie suddenly realized I had taken the phone call as an emergency. "Oh! How sorry I am," Marie cried, "I am sure you would like to slay me. Mother was better this morning, and I impulsively ~ called you to share the sunlight on the apple blossoms." All at once things began to fall into their proper places. Why was I hurrying about at such a pace? This moment of beauty and companionship was important. I looked out of the window and said, '"'No, Marie, I feel I have been honored to know I have friends who would think of me when the sun is shining on apple blossoms." "imieace Candlac Ivy Houtz Woolley Light your tapers and let them burn until there is a little well around the wick, take a salt shaker and sprinkle salt over the flame. It will fall into the little well, and lo, no more drips. Lay the bowl of a spoon over the flame as a snuffer, flame out, no smoke, no smell. 518 4 German Holiday Buffet Part Il Carla Sansom — In looking at my salad list, in preparing my German holiday buffet, I find five salads which I can prepare the day before. They are: string bean; red beet-herring; pineapple-cheese with lime jello; fresh cranberry relish; and orange cream salad. The cucumber salad, and the shrimp salad I will prepare shortly before my guests arrive. STRING BEAN SALAD 2 cans string beans 1%, c. Oil 2 green onions, chopped 3 tbsp. Vinegar 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 clove garlic (cut in half) pepper, paprika, onion salt Pour water off beans and put beans in a bowl. Sprinkle salt on beans and green onions. Let sit. Meanwhile soak garlic clove in oil and add vinegar and Jemon juice. Pour over beans. Add pepper, paprika, and onion salt to taste. Toss well. Keep in refrigerator. RED BEET-HERRING SALAD 1 can small whole pickled beets 1 tbsp. White vinegar (1 Ib.) 4 tsp. Salt 2 or 3 herring filets coarse ground pepper 1 large dill pickle 1 tsp. Sugar 2 medium-sized onions 2 to 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 large apple, diced 14 c. Sour cream 2 hard-boiled eggs Separate beets from juice. Dice beets, herring filets, pickle, onions, apple, eggs. Turn into serving bowl. Add vinegar, salt, pepper, and sugar. Toss. Turn mayonnaise and sour cream over ingredients and toss well. Taste. (You might wish to add a few drops of lemon juice, a dash of sugar, or two or three tbsp. Of whipped cream.) Chill. PINEAPPLE-CHEESE SALAD WITH LIME JELLO 1 pkg. Lime jello 14 Ib. Medium nippy cheese, 1 can crushed pineapple shredded You can double this amount. Prepare jello as directed. Mix crushed pineapple with cheese. Mix with jello, and pour into mold. FRESH CRANBERRY RELISH 1 Ib. Fresh cranberries 1 c. Sugar 2 medium-sized oranges Wash and drain cranberries. Put through a grinder. Cut oranges in half, remove seeds, and put through grinder, with peel. Turn into serving bowl. Add sugar and mix. Chill. This relish can be kept in refrigerator for months. Aging improves the flavor. 519 JULY 1966 ORANGE CREAM SALAD 4 egg yolks 4 egg whites, beaten 1% c. Sugar 1 pt. Whipping cream 12 tbsp. Orange juice 1 can mandarin orange segments 4 tbsp. Lemon juice orange rind 3 envelopes plain gelatine Cream egg yolks with sugar. Add juices. Prepare gelatine as directed. Mix with above mentioned ingredients. Beat egg whites and whipping cream. Fold into mixture. Pour in bowl and garnish with mandarin orange segments. Sprinkle with orange rind. Chill. CUCUMBER SALAD 2 medium-sized tucumbers, peeled 4 slices fried bacon, crumbled and sliced pepper as desired 4 tbsp. Vinegar 11% tbsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Sugar 2-3 green onions, chopped 14 c. Parsley, chopped Peel and slice cucumbers. Add other ingredients. Mix and chill. SHRIMP SALAD Prepare a tossed salad, according to your favorite vegetable mixture. Add two cans of shrimp. (Rinse shrimp and drain before adding to salad.) Toss. Garnish with lemon slices. Dressing 1 pt. Chili sauce 1 tsp. Sugar 2 boiled eggs, chopped 1 tsp. Horseradish 1% pt. Sour cream dash of pepper 14 c. Mayonnaise dash of salt Mix and chill. Serve with salad. On the morning of the buffet | will make the cakes. | am going to have German marble kuchen, cheese cake, and butterkuchen. GERMAN MARBLE KUCHEN 3 c. Sifted flour 3 unbeaten eggs 2 tsp. Double-acting baking 1 c. Milk powder 114 tsp. Vanilla 1% tsp. Salt 34, c. Chocolate syrup 1 c. Butter or margarine 14 tsp. Soda 2 c. Sugar Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Cream butter thoroughly; gradually add sugar, creaming until light and fluffy. Blend in eggs, one at a time, beating well after each. Combine milk and vanilla. Add alternately with dry ingredients. Blend thoroughly after each addition. Pour 24 of batter into 10-inch tube pan, greased on the bottom. Blend into remaining batter the chocolate syrup, and soda. Pour chocolate batter over white batter. Do not mix. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.) 45 minutes. Place a sheet of foil on top of pan and bake 20 to 25 minutes longer. Cool completely in pan. 520 CHEESE CAKE 1144 c. Graham cracker crumbs 1% tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Butter 2 8-0z. Pkgs. Cream cheese 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 1% tsp. Lemon juice ly c. Sugar 4 eggs, separated 2 tbsp. Flour 1 c. Cream Blend the crumbs with the butter and 2 tbsp. Sugar; press into the bottom of a 9-inch spring pan. Blend the 14 c. Sugar with the flour, salt, and cream cheese, softened at room temperature. Add vanilla and lemon juice. Add the egg yolks, one at a time, mixing well after each yolk is added. Add cream and blend thoroughly. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites, and pour the mixture on the top of the crumbs. Bake in slow oven, 325°, for 1 hour, or until ''set'' in the center. Cool before removing the ring of the pan. Can be topped with blueberry or cherry pie filling. Garnish with whipped cream. BUTTERKUCHEN lc. Milk 2 eggs Yc. Sugar 4 c. Unsifted flour 1 tsp. Salt 1 stick butter (14 Ib.) 1 stick butter (44 Ib.) 14 c. Sugar and cinnamon mix 1% c. Warm water 1 c. Chopped walnuts 2 pkgs. Dry yeast Scald milk; stir in sugar, salt, and butter; cool to lukewarm. Measure warm water into large warm bowl. Sprinkle in yeast; stir until dissolved. Stir in lukewarm milk mixture, eggs, and half the flour; beat until smooth. Stir in remaining flour to make stiff batter. Cover and let rise in warm place 45 minutes. Punch down, and spread dough in well-greased 18-inch square pan or one of similar size. Let rise until doubled in bulk. Dot with remaining stick of butter; sprinkle with cinnamon-sugar mixture and nuts. Bake in moderate oven, 375°, for about 20 to 25 minutes. Remove from oven and frost with the following lemon icing: Lemon Icing 1 -c. Powdered sugar 3 tsp. Lemon juice For meat I will serve a leg of pork which I roast in the oven at 325°F. 30 to 45 minutes per pound. Half an hour before meat is done baste with a mixture consisting of: 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Marjoram 1% tsp. Pepper 2 tbsp. Lemon. Juice 2 tbsp. Chopped onions This mixture gives pork a wonderful flavor. | have found that when guests are coming to my house during the holidays, they are tired of ham and turkey. I will also serve a sirloin tip roast, and some sliced Italian salami. For relishes! Will serve cherry tomatoes, olives, and carrot and celery sticks. The celery sticks | will top with cream cheese, spiced with onion salt, pepper, paprika, and a dash of horseradish salt. | will also have a variety of pickles, homemade chili sauce, apple jelly, and red and black currant jelly. For drinks, we will have hot elderberry juice with lemon slices. (| pick the elderberries in the fall in the mountains, and put them up like grape juice.) | will get out my Irish linen, my silver and crystal, and my white china plates. "521 nlbee My calla Sang Genevieve Van Wagenen Mother was no singer. In fact, she had so little faith in her ability that she never even tried out for the ward choir. But the songs mother sang in our home had a lasting effect upon my life—an effect for good. Mother sang at her work, whether ironing, doing dishes, dusting, cooking, or mending. She sang as she rocked her infants to sleep. It was not unusual, when coming in from play, to see mother sitting in a rocker, singing a lullaby to her drowsy babe. She never interrupted her singing, or stopped her rocking to make inquiries or give orders. Instead, she continued singing, composing her own words to fit the tune, as she sang along. She would sing words of instruction or counsel which she wished us to carry out, while she was occupied. One of mother's favorite hymns was "I Need Thee Every Hour." To this tune, and from her rocker, she could operate her home, if need be, sort of like remote control. Her melodic instructions would go something like this: "I'm getting the baby to sleep, so please don't disturb. Go wash your face and hands and get a clean dress on. As soon as I lay the baby down, I will comb your hair. I want you to go to the store for me. Hurry fast, I want to do some baking before dinner." Mother was a versatile melodizer. Other mothers in our neighborhood did not operate on this system. But with mother, it was efficiency plus. Through this system, she answered our questions, settled our childish disputes, supervised tidying the home, and organized her household, all while singing a lullaby. As children, our favorite songs were the story-telling variety that mother learned in young womanhood. Songs like, "After The Ball," "The Letter Edged in Black," "I'll Take You Home Again, Kathleen," ete. Mother briefed us in on the background of the song, then she would sing it for us. We listened intently. We were touched by the drama of life. She gave songs more than a melody—she gave them a soul. The tears rolled down our cheeks as we saw the tragedy and felt the remorse caused by the misunderstanding of the two young lovers, in "After the Ball.'"' We shed tears of sympathy, as we heard the pleading words of a brokenhearted and repentant father, in '"'The Letter Edged in Black," as he said: "(Come home, my boy, your poor old Father wants you. Come home, my boy, your Mother dear is dead. Oh, your Mother's words, the last she ever uttered, were, "Tell my boy I want him to come back!' Oh, my eyes are blurred, my poor old heart is breaking, while I'm writing you this Letter Edged in Black." We drank deeply of the son's grief, too, on this loneliest of days, as he read: "Forgive the angry words 'twere spoken, you know I never meant them, don't you, Jack? Oh, the angels bear me witness I am asking your forgiveness in this Letter Edged in Black." Our eyes were flooded with tears. We tried to check the flow, first with blinks and sniffs and chubby fists that see-sawed back and forth. Then we resorted to more absorbent sleeves or skirts. We wouldn't think of interrupting mother's singing to go and get a handkerchief—we didn't want to miss a word of it. (I smile now, as I look back on this tender scene.) When the song ended, we begged: "Sing it again! Sing it again!" "No," said mother, "you'll only cry. I don't want to make you cry." "Please, Mother," we coaxed. "Sing it again!" So mother would sing it again. The tears streamed just as freely, but it was wonderful! There was something strengthening, refreshing, rejuvenating about it all, like refreshing rain. As the songs flowed on, we children identified ourselves with each character. We felt understood. We sympathized. We discovered values. We learned charity. We grew. 522 € wagobi tee s* % f, ee oT 3 é ia @ Myrtle Kiddie Seely, Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada, applies her unusual artistic capabilities in many fields of design and craftsmanship. Being left-handed has seemed to be no deterrent to her accomplishments. She has crocheted hundreds of doilies and tablecloths, does huck weaving, has mastered many intricate embroidery stitches, and she makes many kinds of colorful and decorative rugs. In a single winter she did most of the work on thirty quilts. Her most recently developed hobby is oil painting, an art medium in which she can utilize to great advantage her discerning sense of color and her authentic feeling for composition. Canadian flowers, fields, and magnificent mountains grace her canvases, and she particularly enjoys painting the reflections of mountian peaks upon the quiet lake waters. She is an expert gardener, and her lovely roses and houseplants are much admired. She does her own home decorating, both paper hanging and painting. In Relief Society, she has been a visiting teacher since the age of seventeen, except during the intervals when she served as chorister, and later as first counselor. From 1938 to 1941 she served as president of Stirling Ward Relief Society. At present she is again a visiting teacher. She has a wide circle of appreciative and devoted friends. She has seven living children, twenty-five grandchildren, and sixteen great-grandchildren. On March 15th, 1966, Sister Seely celebrated her seventy-sixth birthday, and her friends and family reminisced and rejoiced with her, looking back over many years of devotion and accomplishment. 523 Wheat for the Wise Margery S. Stewart Chapter 7 (conclusion) ™@ Lance came home from Sunday School and gave Jennie a slip of paper. 'You give it," he said hotly. Jennie picked up the paper, "a 21% minute talk. 'What are the rewards of righteousness? " " She put the paper down and listened to Lance's angry feet storm up the stairs. She catalogued the sounds overhead. When she reasoned that he had changed into the relaxing jeans and knit shirt, 524 she mounted the stairs after him and knocked at his door. He opened it grudgingly. His face was closed against her. "I can't do that subject," he said. Jennie came into his room and straightened the bed. '""Why not?" He looked at her in surprise. "What rewards?" he asked. "Just tell me that one thing, what rewards do good people get?' She studied him in pride and regret. He was growing up much too fast, mentally and physically. He's going to be like Rex, she thought, a thinker, a demander of reasons. "What rewards do the bad ones get?" she asked. He shook his head. 'You're going to tell me... Jails... All right. There are jails and jails!" He stuffed change into his pocket. "What difference between a cell in a prison for a robber, and the cell Mrs. Marchang lives in, with that sickness she has that won't let her off her bed?" Jennie was silent. The boy was demanding of her explanations that had harassed the minds of philosophers and sages since the world began. "She's been good all her life," he prodded. '""What's the difference between being in jail and being in that horrible nursing home you took me to, where old Mr. Penrose gropes around?" "But it's different." "How different?" He glared at her. "I've finally figured it out," he said, his freckles shining above the intensity of his face, "nobody gets any rewards... But nobody. Just look around you." Jennie sank down on his bed. She thought, I haven't done anything to deserve the rewards of this family of mine, this new and lovely house, yet here I am, surrounded by beauty. She said slowly, "I think the reason we can't see the difference between one kind of jail and another, is because we can't see inside the person. Now, when I visit Mrs. Marchang, I feel as if I had been in another climate, or like the time we went to Hawaii. It was like another world, wasn't it?" "Yes," said Lance, reluctantly. "With Mrs. Marchang, I feel as though I had been in a garden place, filled with birds and other singing things." He stopped still. "You do? Honest?" "Yes," Jennie said, "I honestly do. I come away inspired, filled with ideas to think about, determined to be braver and better."' She stroked his hair. '""We're so dimensional, Lance. We're doors, to ourselves, and the doors open to such different countries.'"' She paused, "Once, I went to read to someone in the County Hospital.... It was dreadful to be with that person. It was as if I looked in a pit with snakes writhing about...." Lance sat down beside her. "Once I went over to Mrs. Marchang's, with some stuff you sent over. She told me about the stars. She really knows where they are. On summer nights, her husband wheels her out, and she studies them through that old telescope of hers...." He considered, ""Yeah, we can cross her off our list, she's got more horizons than astronauts, I bet." Jennie sighed. She hoped they were making headway. But she felt beyond her depth. "What about Mr. Penrose?" WHEAT FOR THE WISE "What about him?" asked. "Well, think about a man who has been so great, I mean... Really great, a Governor and all. He told me once he didn't have anything bad happen to him, until he lost his son... And then he had to be put in the home... All his money was gone and his children were gone, too. All his Jennie life good things.... And then, powie... Nothing but zero." WENNIE said slowly. "We all have sticky places to cross... Some of them come early. Some come now and then, some come all at once, when we're old and least able to cope with them. But we can't see what is beyond the hill for Mr. Penrose, can we?" "Like what?" he asked suspiciously. "Like heaven... Like reunion with his wife and son... Like the putting away of the heavy coat of his years and putting on the shining stuff of spirit. We can't see that. We grope... Like someone watching icebergs and seeing only edges above the water." "All right,"' said Lance, "Ill do the speech." He hesitated. "Will Dad come?" "Sure, he'll come. He couldn't stay away from an occasion like nat..." - Lance went out whistling. Jennie went back to the kitchen. She looked in the mirror to see if the conversation had aged her as much as she felt it had, but the mirror gave her back only the brightness of her freshly done hair and the pinkness of the new lipstick, "Iceberg!" she hissed. She told Rex about the conversation. 525 JULY 1966 He sat on the high stool and sharpened the kitchen knives. The June day flooded the kitchen with light and heat. To Jennie's surprise, Rex was definite on the subject of rewards. "Lance is confusing rewards with the natural suffering to which man is heir, or the natural successes. Of course, one gets rewards if he does what is night. The student who sweats it out, gets better marks than the student who plays and procrastinates; the diligent business man fares better than the sloven. But, catastrophes happen to the alert student as well as to the lazy one, accidents befall the canny business man; tragedy overtakes the virtuous. These are the hazards of life. We cannot avoid tragedy by being good, nor danger by being wise." Jennie looked at him with awe. "Tell Lance that," she urged. But Rex did not move. "Some day... Not yet. And anyway, it is not in words but by power."' Jennie looked at him, startled. "What on earth?" "I'm quoting," he said, "'something that keeps sticking in my mind like a tall flagpole. When I go to see what is flying on it... The whole thing disappears." The doorbell rang, Rex went to answer it. He came back to tell her, "I think they have a new job for you." "Is it the bishop?" "It is indeed," said Rex. The new job was the designing of a float for the Twenty-fourth of July parade. Jennie could not believe her ears. "A float! Good heavens! I can't even design a dress. I'm completely untalented in that 526 line." The bishop looked at her questioningly. "I have faith in you. You had the faith to make a wonderful thing of the Trekker class. You were blessed to create a fine road show, one that gave pleasure to many. What makes you think you will be left alone on this?" "But a float... 77 Jennie. The bishop stood up. ''All you have to do is design one. We'll do the rest. You draw the picture. The theme..." he fished for the paper, "the theme for our float is the sego lily." quavered Hr went away. Jennie stood watching him drive down the street. She looked at the paper he had left in her hand. How on earth had she ever had the courage to assent? Rex came over to stand by her. "Scared?" "You are so right, I'm scared." "You mean you flinch at such a little thing as designing a float to be seen by... Let's say fifty thousand people?" ' ".. And a prize," said Jennie shortly. "Don't forget the prize." Rex hugged her. "I'll help you, if you would like me to, and I'll keep you supplied with aspirins." Jennie did not find the idea for the float easily. She was driven to prayer and then to fasting. She woke up at three one morning and punched Rex awake. "Tt's absolutely stunning," she assured him. He looked owlishly at her. "May I ask what is?" "The float. I just saw it." He gave her a withering look and went back to sleep. Jennie laughed at her own absurdity, but she could not sleep for visualizing the float. It had, in her mind, one large, beautifully made sego lily. In the calyx stood Ronda, the prettiest girl in the ward. Ronda wore white satin and long gloves and carried a sheaf of the blossoms. Around and down from the great flower was a manmade hill, green and covered with sage. At the foot of the hill, knelt the older women in_ pioneer clothes, depicting the digging of the sego-lily roots in the time of famine. Jennie hugged herself in the darkness. Then, frustrated beyond endurance at having to keep it to herself, she rose and went into Sabra's room and woke her. Sasra was enchanted, "I can just see it. Oh, Mother, it's going to be the very, very best.' She paused, '"'Would there be room on the float for a dancer?" Jennie considered. Why not? What more lovely than a girl dancing on the hill. So it was decided. Her part of the creation of the float was mostly done. It was not hard to draw the design. Rex helped with that. They chose the colors together, the white, maroon, and gold of the flower, the sage green of the hill, and the maroon of the pioneers. Sabra was to wear yellow. The bringing into actuality of her idea was one of the most exciting things Jennie had ever experienced. Rex and his friends brought into being the paper maché flower. It was painted a silky white with the soft yellow and maroon heart in lovely contrast. The hillside was made of WHEAT FOR THE WISE green tissue paper, by the hands of the Relief Society, and the Boy Scouts brought down the sagebrush from a hike organized for that express purpose. On the Twenty-fourth of July, Jennie awoke at four-thirty. She lay still in the faint dawn, trying to reason the unease that crept through her. It was a foreboding she could not dissolve. I suppose we're not going to be the winner, she thought. She brushed the thought aside. Negative thinking! She rose and went downstairs. She could not rid herself of the dark misgivings. She bathed and read the paper and _ prepared breakfast and woke her family early. One look at Sabra made her lips tighten. "Fever!" She reached for Sabra's forehead. "I can see it." Sabra wrenched away. "I feel wonderful. I had a real hot bath this morning." "Get me the thermometer," Jennie commanded. But then something happened. Johnny cried, and Lora fell down the stairs. The thermometer was forgotten. The morning rushed by. Friends were coming back with them, after the parade, for a buffet lunch. There was a children's party, at five, for Lora. The moments slipped by and then it was time to help Sabra into her costume and hurry to the float. Sabra insisted on dressing herself. "T can do it alone." So Jennie hurried along to get herself and Johnny and. Lora ready and, at last, to hurry the family to the car. Rex was already there, honking impatiently. "We're late!" he said, '"there's no one to take Sabra's place. 527 JULY 1966 What are they going to do?" "We'll get there!" Jennie said, "don't panic."' She looked at her daughter. 'Remember, you're to do only the slow turns, and the arm movements, nothing else." Sabra smiled: "Of course, I'll remember." The float looked even more im- 'posing in the bright moming light. The pioneer mothers were bustling about tying their bonnets and making last-minute alterations on their aprons. The bishop was settling an untied sagebrush. The beautiful Ronda was worrying about getting sunburned. Rex was enthusiastic. "It's just too spectacular! If it doesn't win, I'll eat my hat." "Remember the Road Show?' Jennie demanded. "Yes," said Rex, "but this is different. I've already seen some of the floats. In fact, look around you." _ It was time. Ronda climbed to her place. Someone handed her the cascade of sego lilies she was to carry; the pioneer mothers found their places. Sabra climbed the manmade hill and _ stood poised, her arms in ballet position. It was then Jennie realized she had forgotten the thermometer. It was too late. The invisible driver had taken his place under the fluttering paper mountain, someone hastily secured a sagebrush to the hillside, and the float moved majestically off to take its place in the parade. Jennie and Rex hurried Lance and Lora and Johnnie off to Rex's office where they could watch the parade from the comfort of the office windows. 528 Whenever Jenny thought about the parade afterwards, she tried to remember the splendor of it as it inched below their view. Before the float, marched a band of Highlanders. Their fast whirling made Jennie's blood sing with delight. The advancing music made the float seem even more impressive. The beautiful Ronda smiled and waved her white-gloved hand from the backdrop of the sego lily. Sabra, like a winged nymph, danced on the narrow circle of the manmade hill. Jennie's lent Smal still. Sabra had gone into the inner world of herself and was no longer aware of watchers or surroundings. Jennie, knowing Sabra's powers of projection, had no doubt that to her child, the flimsy mound she stood upon, had become a hill, and the lovely Ronda, no doubt, a princess. "Rex?"' He looked at her in gentle 'amusement. 'Now, honey, she's perfectly all right. The float is practically standing still. She's enjoying herself to the hilt. Stop fussing." The float passed before them and was lost in the sea of marchers and coming floats: Jennie sighed and settled back to evaluate her own float against the field of them. The telephone rang. Rex an- swered it. Jennie half turned. But when he said, "What hospital?" through lips gone white, Jennie knew. She went to stand beside him. Lance came to her at once and took her hand. "Now, Mom... It's all right." She patted his shoulder. "Go down and find a cab, Lance... You can walk a _ few blocks through the crowd. We'll call you." Rex put down the telephone. "Tf we go down through the alley we can get to a cab quicker ourselves. No use trying to move the car." Jennie could never remember getting down to the alley, nor through it. She recalled afterwards that the cab driver had had one cauliflower ear, but he had driven without regard to traffic or lights. "T'll get you there, folks. Don't worry. I'll get you there in plenty of time." They went up an elevator. They went down an interminable hall, the floors of which gleamed like glass. They came to a place named "Emergency," and there Rex put her into a chair. "T'll go to the desk," he said. He came back, after a long time, with Doctor Lawson walking beside him. "She fell,' Rex explained. "She danced too far out and she fell." "She was ill before that,'' said the Doctor, with a stern look at Jennie. "The child had a temperature of 103 to start with." He said thoughtfully, "She must have blacked out." Jennie said nothing. She could not speak. She looked wordlessly at Rex. In her mind words tumbled like the clothes in a dryer, WHEAT FOR THE WISE the words were all the same, rewards. She felt her faith flowing out of her like her breath. Her strength was a wisp that would not hold her together. She cried and could not wipe the tears away. Rex leaned over her. 'What is the bishop's number?" Jennie looked at him dazedly. "Why?" "To call him up here. He has the power to make her well." The strength flowed back into her, and the faith. She felt like a farmer who had sowed his wheat and was not astonished to find the golden grains ready for the miller. She gave him the number and waited and prayed. But she prayed mostly for Rex, and mostly in thanksgiving, for she had no doubt about Sabra's recovery. THE uncertain hours seemed endless. The bishop came and told her that their float had won the first prize. The papers came and there was the float on the front page. Then the doctor came with Rex and helped her to her feet, and said, ""You can come in now." So. Jennie followed them into the narrow room and there was her beloved, the strange and beautiful child she did not understand. Jennie bent over Sabra. "T'm sorry I didn't remember about the thermometer." "TI wanted you to forget,' Sabra whispered. "Don't be sorry." Rex stood beside Jennie and held her hand. "It's all right. Sabra will dance on a thousand floats before she's -done with dancing." 529 JULY 1966 But Sabra pressed her advantage. "When can I get baptized?" Rex grinned at her. "With the rest of us, when you are better." When they were driving home Jennie could contain herself no longer. "But when... And how?" Rex said testily, '""Can't a man have any secrets?" "No. Tell me." "The flagpole I was telling you about, the one that ran up a pennant every once in awhile with words on it... Like not in word but in power." "You mean Sabra... And the administering?" "No. Long, long ago. I just didn't have the will to break down the last crumbling wall. It happened when I saw what was happening to you and to Lance and to Sabra... The mysterious force of good that circled you and helped you overcome your obstacles and brought you through...." He looked at her with longing, '"You were never so beautiful as when you sat flushed and disheveled trying to teach Billy to read, or slaving over your Trekker lessons... Or trying to tie the world together for your son." "But I don't understand," said Jennie. "I could never think of the words to tell you what our religion is all about... How simple it is... As simple as Jesus in the manger." Rex smiled at her. "Or as complex as life itself."" He caressed her hair. '""You were too busy and too full of faith to notice that you were moving mountains." He laughed. "It takes someone like me, who lives in the world to see what is really happening." Jennie sat still, struggling to understand her husband. "Not in word, but in power. There has to be power in his Church. Power, helping people to keep his commandments, power that builds faith and nourishes it, power that protects and guides and increases. It's a tremendous thing." She looked at him uncertainly. "But how do you know this?" she demanded. He shook his head. ''Isn't that just like a woman. She'll plug in her vacuum and clean her whole house with it... And never know how it works..." he said slowly, "but a man... Like me... Has to know what makes it work, before he dares to use it." "The rewards of righteousness... Said Jennie, "remind me to remind Lance about his speech." "T'll remind him myself," said Rex. "After all, that's my job now." A DAY LIKE THIS Maude O. Cook The dark is blotting out another day; It soon will join the silent, long parade Of all the yesterdays. Time folds away Its failure and success; the dreams are laid Aside, to find fulfillment or defeat In some tomorrow.. Memories remain, Forevermore to share a safe retreat, Where days like this make recollection sweet. 530 Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Tongan Mission Relief Society Board Instructs District and Branch Officers January, February, and March 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Finehika B. Pulotu, Secretary-Treasurer; Salavia Muti, Second Counselor; Lela Dalton, Supervisor, Tongan Mission Relief Society; Tu'avava'u Mapa, President; Sulia Pule, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right, district officers; Siu Angelau; Katalina Laomake'i; Lily Wolfgramm; Liahona Fifita; Seini Lola Afu; 'Alaimaluloa Taimani. ~ Sister Dalton reports: "During the first quarter of 1966, district conferences were held on the islands of Tongatapu, 'Eua, Ha'apai, Vava'u, Niue, and Fiji. In line with the theme of 'Improved Leadership,' a demonstration on lesson preparation was given to all officers and class leaders. On the same day, district and mission boards met together to discuss accomplishments during 1965 and plans for the year 1966. Relief Society begins in March here in the Southern Hemisphere. "As a further stimulus for improvement in record keeping, among the fifty-six branches and eleven districts with organized societies, the branch and district presidents and secretary-treasurers on the island of Tongatapu were called together for instruction on February 7th. It was felt that a deéper understanding existed of the Relief Society ward record book as a result. "The Tongan sisters in the picture are dressed in their traditional black mourning clothes (with a ta'ovala around the waist) in respect for the passing of their late Queen Salote Tupou. The strict, enforced mourning will be in effect for a period of six months: 531 JULY 1966 North Sanpete Stake (Utah), Fairview Ward Relief Society Annual Day Observance March 17, 1966 Left to right: Lyndon Graham, designer of plaque: Ruth Eriksen and Nora Christensen, historians. Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Relief Society, reports: "The Fairview North Ward Relief Society celebrated the founding of the organization the evening of March 17, 1966, by presenting the pageant 'Then Came the Women,' depicting the history of the general organization. Fairview South Ward also participated, and all husbands and Priesthood authorities were invited to join the activities, which included tableaus, slides, songs, and refreshments. "Stake officers were present at a meeting preceding this event, where Nora Christensen and Ruth Eriksen unveiled a picture plaque portraying the nineteen Relief Society presidencies who have served the North Ward since its organization in 1868. Lyndon Graham designed and made the frame to fit over the fireplace in the Relief Society room. It is made of wood tinted with gold and pink and decorated with the Relief Society emblem and blue ribbon with gold lettering. It is covered with glass and can be adjusted to add the pictures of future presidences for many years to come. "After a leadership meeting showing the film 'A Record Shall Be Kept' and urging presidencies to write a history of their wards, President Nora Christensen and Education Counselor Ruth Eriksen were inspired to fulfill this assignment. Sister Eriksen had a history written up to 1931 that had been given to her sometime ago, but from there on, it was search and research. Past presidents were asked to write their histories, and pictures were gleaned from friends and relatives throughout Utah and several other states. The written history. With pictures, is completed now. The new President Donna Brunger states: 'We anticipate publishing the history in booklet form for our centennial year 1968.'" Winder Stake (Utah) Winder Eighth Ward Presents Dramatization For Relief Society Anniversary March 18, 1966 Seated second row, center: Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; and Josephine Patterson, Director of Social Service; back row, standing between these two sisters (in dark dress), Verona George, President, Winder Eighth Ward Relief Society, with her counselors, at her right: Virginia Smart, and at her left: Judy Riches. Louise W. Free, President, Winder Stake Relief Society, reports: "On March 18th, for the sisters and their husbands, the Winder Eighth Ward Relief Society presented the dramatization "'There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow' in which a modern day scientist took the audience back in time through an ingenious time machine to the organization of Relief Society and the lives of each of the nine General Presidents. As each scene unfolded a sister dressed in authentic clothing for her time, stood behind a plastic curtain and represented one of the presidents. When the life of President Belle S. Spafford was presented, the audience was delighted to see Sister Spafford portray her own life. "The Singing Mothers, under the direction of Bessie 'Wipeveill, provided appropriate music. The title song 'There's a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow,' was sung by Brother and Sister Jede Ellis between scenes, and then, at the end of the dramatization, the audience joined in the singing. Kirsten Pruhs was in charge of the buffet supper which was served following the program. Favors were blue foil booklets with a gold key attached, enclosing an original poem by Edna Maurer "The Key to a Great Big Beautiful Tomorrow' in which the idea was expressed that the key is love, faith, charity, and service." 532 300 pea &O* 2¢ g@ ere ) 00 83 oe pge ay PM i Eid ¢ a Seatitoananenspete tesa tanitene JULY 1966 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Concert Presented in Honor of the Relief Society Anniversary March 18, 1966 Standing at the right, left to right: Norma W. Witt, accompanist; Maxine S. Pattison, chorister; Heidi S. Birch, organist. Far right, on each side of the first four rows: Luella W. Finlinson, President; Momo T. Ushio, Work Counselor; Betty T. Erekson, Secretary-Treasurer; Marion A. Reed, Education Counselor. Sister Finlinson reports: "The South Cottonwood Stake held its first formal Singing Mothers concert March 18, 1966, commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. We were thrilled with the response and performance. One hundred and twenty-one sisters from nine wards sang from memory eleven beautiful hymns. We feel this was a tremendous goal to achieve. A guest instrumental ensemble, consisting of Lucille Salisbury, Afton Woffinden, Ann Larson, and Ann Bailey played lovely interlude numbers which added much to the delight of the enthusiastic audience. The closing number 'Onward Christian Soldiers' was assisted by a trumpet trio from the Murray High School band, which made a glorious climax to an outstanding evening's entertainment. Each ward took its turn and assisted in the task of providing baby sitters for the many children, while their mothers practiced. Each stake board member was chairman of one of the committees which helped make the event a financial as well as an esthetic success." California Mission, Palm Springs District Singing Mothers Present Music For Quarterly Conference March 13, 1966 Third from the right in the third row: June M. Brower, newly sustained President, Palm Springs District Relief Society; Neta Fulkerson, second from the right in the second row, accompanist; assistant director Evelyn Green, at - the right on the first row; LaVirda Stuehser, director, first on the right in the second row; the soloist Shirley La Ventura is fourth from the right, second row. Athelia S. Tanner, President, California Mission Relief Society, reports: "This chorus is made up of six branches, covering an area of approximately 150 miles. For conference, the chorus sang 'The Stranger of Galilee,' and 'Lord, God of Our Fathers,' also 'Sweet Is the Work,' as a prelude, and 'I Need Thee Every Hour' as a postlude. Elder Frank Call, missionary from Brigham City, Utah, accompanied the group on the violin." Ruth H. Jensen is Supervisor of the California Mission Relief Society. Lorin Farr Stake (Utah), Ogden Seventh Ward Celebrates Relief Society Anniversary March 16, 1966 Left to right: Aenone Hall, Second Counselor; Elma Snowball, SecretaryTreasurer; Hazel Owen, literature class leader; Hazel Gray, First Counselor; Helen Clifford, President. Virga W. Swenson, President, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, reports: "After a sketch of the organization of Relief Society in 1842, one of the sisters was especially honored for her devotion to Relief Society. Sister Hazel Jones Owen has been the literature class leader for seventeen years without a break. She read her latest poem, and other compositions by her were read by sisters of Relief Society. Sister Owen has had poems published in The Relief Society Magazine and in The Improvement Era. A corsage and a Relief Society pin were presented to Sister Owen in acknowledgment of her many years of service. "A trophy was also awarded to the Seventh Ward for having 100 per cent visiting teaching every month for the past eight years. (This was presented by Sister Swenson.)" 534 JNAYIS GILOAIO JO SUVAA ZI JULY 1966 Hyrum Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Completes Series of Ward Conferences Seated, left to right: Einer L. Jensen, high council representative; Alda S. Walters, Second Counselor; Berenece B. Darley, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society; Loraine R. Allen, First Counselor; Earle W. Allen, President, Hyrum Stake. Back row, standing, left to right: Myra B. Coulam, chorister; Melba S. Nielsen, homemaking leader; Arlene N. Larsen, organist; Angeline J. Smith, SecretaryTreasurer; Donna C. Russell, theology class leader; Elsie B. Poppleton, Magazine representative; Alice N. Olsen, visiting teacher message leader; Radah F. Leishman, social relations class leader; Harriet C. Leishman, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Darley reports: "We have just completed the Relief Society meetings in connection with ward conferences in all eight wards, and we are so happy because we feel that we have had the best conferences and the greatest success over any previous year. Under the direction of the Priesthood, the entire stake board has gone into each ward at a work meeting and put on a special presentation. This year, we used thoughts from Counselor Louise W. Madsen's Relief Society General Conference address, and our theme was 'Relief Society — a Doorway to Many Wonderful Things.' Kay A. Parkinson made eight beautiful paintings or visual aids and put them into a book form, with rings so the pages could be turned." Utah State University Stake Annual Food Fair and Fashion Show April 2, 1966 Front row, left to right: Elder Eldred L. Waldron, adviser from the High Council; Gwen J. Miner, President, Utah State University Stake Relief Society; Jeanette Hogan, First Counselor; Carleen Nuzman, Second Counselor. Sister Miner reports: "Over 500 people attended the annual food and fashion fair sponsored by the Utah State University Stake Relief Society. The theme 'April Showers of Food, Fun, and Fashion' was carried out in decorations, program, and general arrangements. Eight beautiful and unusual booths were constructed by the different ward organizations. Each booth displayed a different type of food prepared by the members of the fifteen wards comprising the stake. The sweepstakes, or 'Fairest of the Fair' was won by Diane Bennett of the Second Ward, whose entry was an unusual and original cherry pie. Following the fashion show, the food was served to those present. The prize for the best booth was won by the Ninth and Tenth Wards for their model of a Chinese pagoda. Over one hundred participated in the fashion show, where there were eight different categories." South Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 1, 1966 Visiting teachers honored for twenty-five or more years of service, front row, left to right: Ruth Pierce; Ruby Davis: Lenora Holmes; Chloe B. Lund; Pamela Gale; Teen Dial; Mary Baker. Back row, left to right: Lovisa Nelson; Neoma Pett; Duella Victor; Myrtle Clifford; Flossie Braegger; Mary Zunzler; Lettie Christopherson. Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "Spring daffodils were presented to all of the honored guests. Lovely luncheon tablecloths were presented to Pamela Gale. Age ninety-three. Oldest Relief Society visiting teacher; Chloe B. Lund, fifty years as a visiting teacher, with forty-eight years of continuous service: and Lenora Holmes, for forty-five years of continuous service. The luncheon cloths were made by Marva Cook. Stake Relief Society work leader. Also honored were a number of Relief Society visiting teachers who had made 100 per cent in their visits during the year." 536 epee a Knowle Doce Bec a oe AKERS Pyros'. Whe ch O8™ oe, Ss caine oe Eatere™ Bocn Lesson Department \ (A SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 73—John's Testimony of Jesus (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, 93:1-20) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the necessity for a knowledge of the mission of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer. INTRODUCTION In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93, the reader is told that the only way by which a person may come unto the Lord Jesus Christ is by forsaking his sins. (D&C 93:1.) This truth, stated differently, is that the atonement of Christ remits sins only if the person repents and accepts the Savior by an authorized baptism. (D&C 29:17; 42:1.) CLASS DISCUSSION: Why is it important for each sister to study the life of Christ for herself? Give an_ instance where one of Jesus' teachings has impressed you so that you have modified your actions. 538 TO KNOW HIM The promised blessing to those who keep the commandments is to know God. (John 17:3.) To know God means more than the usually accepted meaning that one may, by the Holy Ghost, know of his existence and of his plan of salvation. (This means of knowledge is known to thousands of Latter-day Saints. Keeping the commandments is an essential to meet the requirements.) Men may also literally "see his face" in this life. (D&C 67:10-14; 93:1.) In commenting upon the words of Jesus to his disciples, as recorded in John 14:12 to 27, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that to receive the other Com- forter mentioned in these verses it was necessary to: (1) receive the Holy Ghost, the first Comforter, after water baptism; (2) hunger and thirst after righteousness; and (3) thoroughly to be proved in keeping the commandments. After this, one would be entitled to receive the other Comforter, the blessing of being in the presence of Jesus Christ and the Father. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 150-151.) Many names might be furnished of those who have literally seen the Lord other than Isaiah, Ezekiel, and John the Revelator, named by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The brother of Jared (Ether 3:12-20); Nephi and his brother Jacob (2 Nephi 11:2-3); Moroni (Ether 12:38-41); Stephen, the first Christian martyr (Acts 7:54-56); Sidney Rigdon (D&C 76:22-24); Oliver Cowdery (Ibid., 110:1-10); and others of this dispensation have seen the Lord. To know God in the ultimate sense is to become like him. For this purpose the Melchizedek Priesthood is available to man that the ordinances of the House of the Lord may prepare him for this greatest measure of salvation. (Ibid., 88:19-23; 124:27-28, 41-42.) Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve, counsels us in the way to eternal life: With complete surrender to the spirit of the gospel let us, honestly and without guile, search our own souls and find the weakness which presently impedes our upward climb to eternal life. If that weakness be faultfinding, evil speaking of the Lord's anointed, or profaning the name of Deity, let us desist. If it be LESSON DEPARTMENT neglecting our prayers, let us pause night and morning in our mad rush and kneel with our families and in our secret chambers while we pour out our souls in thanksgiving and petition, until hungering and _thirsting after righteousness we are filled with the Holy Ghost. If it be failure to obtain the sealing ordinances of the temple for ourselves and families, let us straightway prepare to enter that holy place and obtain them before it is too late. If it be the giving way to anger or appetite for the things forbidden in the Word of Wisdom, or surrendering to baser lusts; if it be desecration of the Sabbath day or refusing to contribute of our time and means according to the laws of the Church for the building of the kingdom; whatever it be, let us find it, recognize it, and do something about it daily (Conference Report, October 1956, page 17). THE TRUE LIGHT He who comes to the Savior may not only see his face in the Lord's own due time, and know that he is, but he will also understand that the Savior is the light which lighteth every man that comes into the world. (Jbid., 93:2; see Lesson 65, Relief Society Magazine, August 1965.) It is this influence in the world that ennobles man, raises him to greater heights of accomplishments, and teaches him that there is joy in right doing, whereas, regret and sorrow follow when man does not live by the light he possesses. (D&C 84:45-47; Moroni 7:10-19.) THE ONENESS OF THE FATHER AND THE SON In Section 93 and other scriptures, the doctrine that the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ are one, is known. (D&C 93:3; John 10:30; I John 5:7.) As a part of this concept, further emphasis is given in this lan- 539 JULY 1966 guage: the Son is in the Father, and the Father is in the Son. (John 14:10.) This does not mean that the Father and the Son are one person. They are separate and distinct personages. (D&C 130:22; John 17:11, 20- 24.) Of what does this oneness consist? Elder James E. Talmage wrote: This unity is a type of completeness; the mind of any one member of the Trinity is the mind of the others: seeing as each of them does with the eye of perfection, they see and understand alike. Under any given conditions each would act in the same way, guided by the same principles of unerring justice and equity. The one-ness of the Godhead, to which the scriptures so abundantly testify, implies no mystical union of substance, nor any unnatural and therefore impossible blending of personality. Father, Son, and Holy Ghost are as distinct in their persons and individualities as are any three personages in mortality. Yet their unity of purpose and operation is such as to make their edicts one, and their will the will of God (The Articles of Faith, page 41). CLASS DISCUSSION: Since the three members of the Godhead are one in unity, in what ways must we be a unity with them to receive exaltation? THE FATHER AND THE SON Jesus speaks of himself as having received a fulness from the Father, and he is therefore known as the Father. He, of course, is the Son because he was _ tabernacled in the flesh as the offspring of the Father. (D&C 93: 4.) That Christ is known in the scriptures as the Father is well attested. (Isa. 9:6; Ether 3:14; 2 Nephi 19:6; Mosiah 16:15; Alma 11:38-40.) According to an exposition on 540 the doctrine of the Father and the Son by The First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles, issued on June 30, 1916, there are three different meanings of the title "Father". As applied to Jesus Christ. These are: (1) "Father" as Creator (Ether 4:7; Mosiah 16:15); (2) "Father" of those who abide in his gospel (D&C 50:41; 25:1; 34:3; 39:1-4); (8) "Father" because he represents the Father who gave him the right to use the title (John 5:43; 3 Nephi 20:35; 28:10; D&C 50: 43.) THE WORKS OF THE FATHER MANIFEST Jesus came into the world (1) to perform the works of his Father; and (2) to testify that men might know of the Father. (D&C 93:5; John 5:19.) In this latter sense he became the revelation of God to the world, and, therefore, he was known as the "Word." (John 1:1, 14; D&C 93:8; Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 346.) Jesus was also the "Word" because "the word of God came through Him and was embodied in Him" (PENROSE, CHARLES W.: Conference Report, April 1915, page 37). JOHN'S RECORD The introduction to Section 93 in the Doctrine and Covenants and, also the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 590, identify the testator of the Savior in this revelation to be John the Beloved, the apostle of the Lord. Of him it is recorded that he saw and bore record of the Lord's glory, but his complete record is yet to be revealed. (D&C 93:6.) The author of the Book of John reveals the in- completeness of that record by saying that "the world itself could not contain the books that should be written" about the Savior. (John 21:25.) The promise is given, however, that the fulness of John's record will be revealed "if you are faithful" (D&C 93:18). JESUS AS CREATOR Jesus was in the beginning before the world was created. (D&C 93:7.) As the messenger of salvation he brought the words of the Father to men, and he also revealed the character of God in his life. Only the Being who was truth, who taught only the truth, ' could redeem men and the world. Jesus paid for the transgression in the Garden of Eden that brought spiritual and physical _ death into the world, by sacrificing his life, the life of a Being who was sinless and capable of 'rescuing man from these deaths. (Ibid., verses 8-9; 2 Nephi 9:6- 12; D&C 45:3-4.) The Savior redeemed us, as the apostle Paul / Said: "he hath purchased [us] with his own blood" (Acts 20:, 28). John testifies that men were 'made by the Savior; in fact, all things were his creation. (D&C '93:10.) This earth was created by him through the "light of Christ"; consequently, all men » were created through him, for all 1 are made of the dust of the earth. (Genesis 3:19.) The fulness with which Christ is the Creator is expressed in this authoritative source: Christ was the actual Maker of the worlds, as an architect is the actual maker of the houses he builds. They _Were made by Him. But they were LESSON DEPARTMENT also made through Him; for He was as stated before, the Executive of the Father in the work of creation. They were also made of Him; for He is the very source of the light and life that permeate creation (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 591). It should also be noted that not only was Christ the Creator of this earth but of "worlds." (D&C 93:10; 88:6-10.) THE ONLY BEGOTTEN OF THE FATHER The references to Jesus in the scriptures as the "Only Begotten of the Father" are many. (John 3:16, 18; 2 Nephi 25:12; Alma 9:26; D&C 93:11; 20:21; Moses 6:52.) The First Presidency, in 1916, affirmed the literalness of Jesus' birth by his mortal mother, Mary, and the Eternal Father. Elder James E. Talmage has also written about this doctrine. (The Articles of Faith, page 466; Jesus the Christ, page 81.) Because he was the Only Begotten Son of the Father in the flesh, it was possible for him to offer the infinite atonement for men. FROM GRACE TO GRACE John's testimony is that Jesus grew from grace to grace, that all things were not his at first. And I, John, saw that he received not of the fulness at the first, but received grace for grace; And he received not of the fulness at first, but continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness; And thus he was called. The Son of God, because he received not of the fulness at the first (D&C 93:12-14). Born as a babe, reared from boyhood to manhood, the Child Jesus developed as did other children. We do not know how much the memory of his former 541 JULY 1966 life in the spirit world was withheld, that his growth might be an experience of mortality. Elder Talmage points out, however, that his growth was "from good to greater good, not from evil to good" (Jesus the Christ, page 112). In the temple at the age of twelve, Jesus knew of his divine parentage through the Eternal Father. He was about his Father's business, not the business of Joseph, his legal father. (Jesus the Christ, pages 113-116.) The Bible is silent on Jesus' boyhood and up to the time of his ministry at thirty years, except for the event of the temple at the age of twelve. (Luke 2:41- 52.) Additional information regarding his formative years to the time of his ministry is given us by the Prophet Joseph Smith as follows: And it came to pass that Jesus grew up with his brethren, and waxed strong, and waited upon the Lord for the time of his ministry to come. And he served under his father, and he spake not as other men, neither could he be taught; for he needed not that any man should teach him. And after many years, the hour of his ministry drew nigh (Inspired Version, Matt. 3:24-26). "For he needed not that any man should teach him" suggests that the normal difficulties of teaching and disciplining were not present in his life. Ultimately, as an exalted man, Jesus declared that he had received all power from the Father. (Matt. 28:16-18; D&C 93:16-17.), Even as Jesus received a fulness after the resurrection, so also may the faithful in their exalted state. (Romans 8:17; D&C 84: 38.) 542 THE HEAVENS WERE OPENED In testifying of Christ's divinity as the Only Begotten Son of 7 God, John refers to the time when Jesus was baptized. (D&C 93:15.) At his baptism the heavens were opened and John the Baptist saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, with the voice of the Father saying, ""This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." (Matt. 3:17; c. F. Mark 1:9-11; Luke 3:21-22.) Did the Holy Ghost come in the form of a dove? No, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, but the dove is the sign of the Holy Ghost. (DHC V:260-261.) Several times the Father testified from the heavens of his relationship to his Only Begotten Son. SUMMARY The intent of John's testimony given by the Savior to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the first 19 verses of Section 93, is to show that Jesus Christ is divine, because, First, the Savior is the true light which gives understanding to all men. Second, he is the "Word," the Giver of the revelations, and he was the revelation of God to the world while in his mortal ministry. Third, he is known as the Father because he so completely represents the Father in will, mind, and purpose. Fourth, he became man's Redeemer and Savior by giving his life in atonement for sin. Fifth, he is the Creator of worlds, including our earth, and, he is also man's Creator. Sixth, he is literally the Only Begotten Son of the Father in the flesh and as such received a fulness from the Father. CONCLUSION What do these truths mean to the Latter-day Saints? The Savjor says that they were given,.... That you may understand and know how to worship, and know what you worship, that you may come unto the Father in my name, and in due time receive of his fulness. For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father; therefore, I say unto you, you shall receive grace for grace (D&C 93: 19-20). LESSON DEPARTMENT CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss your feelings toward Christ as they have been _influenced by this lesson. FOR HOME CONSIDERATION: Following the advice of Elder Romney for every one to search his soul and discover his weaknesses, each sister could list two or three of her weaknesses which she feels are most impeding her eternal progress, and endeavor to overcome them. SS VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants TS Alice Colton Smith Message 73—'"'But | Have Commanded You to Bring Up Your Children in Light and Truth" (D&C 93:40) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To provide an atmosphere in the home for @ In the woods, alone, on a beautiful, clear, spring day, Joseph Smith prayed for truth. It was his first attempt at vocal prayer. At fourteen, confused by conflicting religious claims, he turned to the scriptures for guidance as his - devout parents had taught him to _ do. In these scriptures he found the words that were to bring light and truth to his life and to all mankind. With rare and simple faith, he heeded the counsel of the apostle James to ask God, "that giveth to all men liberally" (James 1:5). Embarking on one of the greatest quests of man, the search for truth, he used one of the best tools of learning, prayer. Spiritual learning experiences. He prayed with faith, humility, and a receptive mind. As is so often the case when we search, we find not the simple answer we seek but an almost unbelievable, exciting new dimension of knowledge. So to him the answer came. The darkness which had enveloped him after addressing what was seemingly a simple question was dispelled, and the answer came in a light, brighter than the sun. He had asked a simple question. God answered him with the key to eternity— that he and we might return to God's presence.; Joseph Smith was a good student. With the never-ending en- 543 JULY 1966 couragement of his parents he had from infancy steadily pursued the steps of learning. As we seek to help our children follow his example, we might ask, "How did he acquire knowledge?"' Learning is a process, a long process of development. It did not begin for Joseph on that clear day in 1820. Years before, by gentle but firm teaching, his parents had brought him to love the scriptures and to search out the meaning of the words of God. The first step in attaining knowledge is a love for learning —the cultivation of the burning desire to know—with which children begin. The second step is to acquire the tools of learning, some of which are reading, writing, and prayer. The third is to learn to study—to seek out for oneself. All this takes years. All this takes patience, forbearance, gentleness, love and, sometimes, failure, but always with the will © to go on. When one is facing conflicting © opinions, as Joseph did, what does one do? He should turn to the source of light, to God in prayer. In a shaft of light God | answered Joseph. For us it ial more commonly through an urging of the mind and spirit, a burning within, the imperceptible opening of new doors in the mind, or the conviction that comes to one through the still, small voice. Let us make the consistent, patient, long-suffering effort to teach our children from birth to seek, to search, to ask, to pray, and to study. We must help them to know the best books such as the one from which the Prophet Joseph Smith drew his inspiration. Then, as God commanded us, we will bring up our children in light and truth. HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon PUT SPARKLE IN YOUR MEALS Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To show how the homemaker can plan,. Prepare,. And serve INTRODUCTION John Ruskin, author writes: the English Cooking means the knowledge of all herbs and fruits... And spices... It means carefulness, and inventive- 544 nutritious and See family meals. Ness, and wattiiapiness, and willingness, and readiness of appliance; it means the economy of your great grandmothers,.. And the science of modern chemists; it means... Tasting and no wasting; it means English thoroughness, and French art, and Arabian hospitality.... Well-prepared meals served by loving hands can be more than nourishment. Mealtime should be family time—a time of good food and companionship, a time of rejoicing and thankfulness. What might we do to make our meals more enjoyable? NUTRITION COUNTS Food is fuel for work, action, joy; it is fuel for endurance, for nerve, for strength, for fun. It helps the child to grow, the man to stay on the job, the woman to be at her best. It often determines attitude toward life; it can give one vitality and sparkle, or it can be a robber of stamina and enthusiasm. How can we select food wisely? Nutritionists in the United States Department of Agriculture, working with an eminent food and nutrition board, have devised a simple Daily Food Guide for normal healthy persons. (This may be modified to suit the eating habits and foods of different countries.) The guide provides a framework within which' meal planning can be varied and interesting as the homemaker desires. Daily Food Guide I. Milk Group—children, 3. To 4 glasses; teenagers, 4 or more glasses; adults, 2 or more glasses. Cheese, ice cream, puddings, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk. II. Meat group—two or more servings. Group includes meats, fish, poultry, eggs, or cheese—with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates. III. Vegetables and Fruits—4 or more servings. Include a citrus fruit or. Tomato, a dark green or yellow vegetable, and other vegetables and also fruits, including potatoes. LESSON DEPARTMENT IV. Breads and Cereals—4 or more servings. Includes enriched, whole grain or restored breads and cereals; other baked foods made with enriched or whole grain flour; enriched macaroni, spaghetti, and noodles. In some of the islands of the Pacific, poi and breadfruit are eaten. In Mexico, tortillas and tacos constitute important items of the diet. TO DISCUSS 1. Where the class consists of some members who have lived in'a country other than your own, have them share very briefly with the class the diet patterns of that country. In what ways do they not conform, if any, to the Daily Food Guide? In what ways do they conform? 2. How can vegetables be prepared in order to make them more appealing to the family? Be sure to elicit from class that the cooking of vegetables in a small amount of boiling water (with lid_on kettle) only until vegetables are tender, insures minimum vitamin and mineral loss, and helps to retain color and flavor. Use vegetable liquid for soups, sauces, and gravies. FOOD WITH A FLAIR Do your meals have appetite appeal? Someone said long ago that we "eat, first of all, with our eyes." Food not only provides nourishment for the body, but it appeals to our senses of sight, smell, taste, and touch. As you plan your meals always consider the color, shape, texture, and temperature of each food, as well as the flavor. Also consider these guides in the relationship of one food to another; be sure the foods you use in the same menu are compatible. "Our fruit plate is a symphony and mother and I arranged it so quickly," glowed teenage Beth as she set the plate before the family. Assembled around the table. "All I know is that it looks good 545 JULY 1966 enough to eat on my _ birthday," chimed in twelve-year-old Richard. Other members of the family agreed, as they helped themselves to the tempting fruit—common everyday fruit—but arranged with elegant simplicity. The large plate wore a ruffle of red-tinged garden lettuce around its perimeter, and picking up the red tones was a circle of watermelon wedges. Next came canned Bartlett pears, the outside of each pear blushing with a bit of rosy food coloring. Balls of lush green honeydew melon surrounded an old pink glass compote in the center. The compote contained a tangy, sweet French dressing, punctuated with cherry bits. Food, carefully prepared and served artistically on clean, crisp table linen, can be a symphony— in fact harmony in a meal is as impressive as that in music or in a painting. Your family will react more favorably when food is exciting and colorful. In most cases it is just as easy to plan and prepare an attractive meal as it is a drab, cheerless one. TO DISCUSS 1. Have the class visualize food combinations on a plate for everyday meals. Ask them to share some of their go-together foods which make for greater color appeal. Would a simple garnish such as a small bunch of grapes, carrot sticks, crab apple, or beets do the trick? (Food pictures from magazines might be shown, but it should be remembered that the preparation be kept fairly simple and easy.) 2. How can difference in food textures add to a meal? Give some examples such as crisp croutons with soup or a crunchy cookie with pudding. 3. Try to serve hot foods hot and cold foods cold. Why is it desirable to serve one -hot dish to your family, even on a hot day? AVOID FLAVOR FATIGUE Contrast. Of. Flavors adds much interest to a meal—foods that 546 are sweet and sour, bland and spicy complement each other because of their diversity. An orange glaze on sweet potatoes, mint with lamb, and apple slices or apple sauce with pork are some examples. Learning the up-todate methods of food preparation and food combinations will pay off in flavor zest. Relief Society women have always shared their recipes and the blessings they have in their kitchens with others. SUMMARY Assume your food responsibility with enthusiasm. Plan wisely, shop to save, store foods properly, learn to cook skillfully (it is always fun to do something over which you are the master), serve food as attractively as possible, and even though at the end of the day you may be weary, put sparkle in your meal with a smile. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT Case Study—Mrs. Pett planned the following nutritious menu for her family: roast beef, potatoes cooked in their packets, gravy, buttered cauliflower, waldorf salad (peeled apples ana celery with a creamy dressing), homemade whole-wheat bread and butter for those who wished it, baked apple brown Betty, and milk. How would you improve the menu? Make a list of each family member's favorite foods. Start a file of attractive and easy to prepare and serve family meals with the food budget in mind. NOTE: It may be wise for Homemaking - Discussion leaders in countries other than the United States to use food and menus suitable to their particular country. The example contained in "To Do and Think About" is a menu lack- _ing in color. Too much "sameness" is depressing to the appetite. | SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 6—(Lesson 18 in Series)—That All May Learn Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons-1966: Lesson 17) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To motivate Latter-day Saint women to fulfill their role in teaching one another ''all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God." INTRODUCTION Each of us is a teacher, if we live in association with others. We are teachers, inherently appointed in the sense that we may influence others for good or ill by what we do, by what we say, and by our attitudes or reaction to the varied stimuli of experience. This is unavoidable. Since the impact of words and the power of example are vitally important in teaching, may not each of us, in essence, be saying, "Follow me, learn from what I say and from what I do'? This being so, a definite responsibility falls upon each of us as to (1) what we believe; (2) how our belief influences us; (3) what we say about others; (4) how we react to what others say, verbally or in written form; and (5) the example of our everyday-living. It is obvious from these foregoing statements that teaching may be accomplished in a number of different ways. As Latter-day Saints, we have been specifically admonished to teach one another the gospel of Jesus Christ. That we may become aware of the means by which we may accomplish this divine admonition, is the central theme of this lesson. That we may be motivated, as Latter-day Saint women, to utilize these means, is its objective. EACH A TEACHER And I give unto you another commandment that you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D&C 88:77-78). The foregoing scripture, generally familiar to Latter-day Saints, calls our attention to the fact that we are to teach one another. This indicates that the teaching opportunities and responsibilities are not restricted to one individual, or to even a few. It tells us, in addition, what we as Latter-day Saints are to teach and why. If we teach diligently we shall have the Lord's grace to attend us. Teaching the doctrine of the kingdom might aptly apply to 547 JULY 1966 prepared instruction on specific principles of the gospel. "All things that pertain unto the kingdom of God" might have wider application and include the ethical principles which each of us may teach,. Unconsciously or by specific intent, in our everydayliving—all, in fact, that will further our progress on the road to perfection. BY VERBAL WORD The following comment illustrates how a statement, casually spoken, may influence another person's life: Woman "A" speaking: Something you said a few months ago is changing my attitude completely. You said, "What happens to us is not as important as what we let that happening do to us." I believe that you are right, and I am not going to let my recent misfortune embitter me and ruin my tomorrows. Instead, I am using it as a constructive step toward achieving compassion and understanding for all others in similar circumstances. Woman "B" speaking: A statement made by my father, over forty years ago, has influenced my life for good throughout the years. He said, "If you want to see the stars, look up. That's where you'll see them. They're not on the ground." CLASS ACTIVITY: 1. What applications foregoing statements you? Discuss. 2. Give verbal statements made by others which may have influenced your life for good. 3. Relate an example where something you have said has_ influenced a friend for good. Could the have for BY WRITTEN WORD The power of the written word to influence our lives is beyond 548 calculation. It is basic to secular education. It is basic also to our religious education, since it is through the written and preserved word that we know of the dealings of the Heavenly Father with his children upon the earth; that we know of his revealed word of the prophets of the past and of the present. The written word, accordingly, can bring the teachings of the Savior into our homes today. We, as individuals, also, may influence others, in some measure, through our written words. The penned letter, the printed article, the brief poem, the public address, all may be directives in the lives of others. Case Example, No. 1, woman speaking: I was unable to attend the annual Relief Society Conference in 1965 but I was grateful for the Magazine which preserves much of it for me. The inspiring address of President Brown on "The Exalted Sphere of Woman" is a message for every L. D. S. Woman. Talks by apostles of the Lord addressed primarily to Relief Society officers in furthering the work of Relief Society, have enduring application and are assisting me greatly in my Relief Society work. I also read the wonderful talks given by our General Presidency, and I am greatly impressed by the spirit and the insight apparent in these inspiring addresses. (See Relief Society Magazines for November and December 1965, January and February 1966.) Class Activity: a. State the basic spiritual truth brought out in "The Blessings of Experience," by President Belle S. Spafford. In what way may this become a profitable teaching-truth in your life? Discuss. B. In the address 'Love, the Measuring Rod," Counselor Marianne C. Sharp acknowledges the influence that an editorial by Elder Mark E. Peter- sen has had upon her thinking. Discuss as a life-guiding principle, her statement "love is the hardest taskmaster." c. "Behold I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door," by Counselor Louise W. Madsen is based upon recorded words of the Savior. Enumerate six avenues for personal development discussed in this address. D. How do these spiritual guidelines relate to "all things that pertain to the kingdom of God?" BY DEED "Educate a mother and you educate a family" is a statement frequently heard. No person is in a better position to influence children than is the mother. The intimate nature of her relationship to her family over a long period of time, makes what she believes, says, and does, real and important factors in their learning. That family members are aware of this influence, is evidenced by words of the small child who says, "My mother thinks so, and she knows everything,' and by the comment of a mature person who says, "My attitude toward this situation is, no doubt, conditioned by the early childhood training from my mother." While mothers may not need to be retold that their influence is vitally important, thoughtful mothers may appreciate and may profit by being reminded of specific ways by which they may make their teaching efforts bring forth good fruit. An example is the reminder that the mother who holds before her son and _ her daughter, the virtues of their father, may be planting the seeds of respect and obedience. Her children likely will grow to honor their father, as admonished in scripture. LESSON DEPARTMENT A sample of the fruit from such planting may be found in statements such as the following from a newly married daughter: Daughter speaking: Our mother always made. Us feel that we were very fortunate in having a wonderful father. In casual ways she referred specifically to his good qualities which she appreciated. Later, when considering a life companion, I instinctively looked for a young man who had the honesty, integrity, and other fine qualities that my father had. WE ASK OURSELVES Can one woman exert an example-influence upon an entire neighborhood? Can a woman who has no children in the home exert an influence upon the children in a neighborhood? These are questions which we may ask ourselves: Statement No. 1 Woman speaking: I have a neighbor who never speaks ill of anyone; moreover, she sees some- ' thing good in every person. She is my best example of one who appreciates the virtues of others. Whenever I am tempted to voice an unkind remark, her example intercedes. I believe this characteristic is the key to her habitual optimism. Statement No. 2 Boy speaking: Mrs. A. Who lives on the corner of our street doesn't have any children in her house; but you'd think she did, because she likes children so much. We can tell she does by the way she treats us children on the whole block. When she passes by she waves at us, if we're outside. She bakes: cookies for us sometimes, and does other things, too. She makes us feel so friendly we think she is the best neighbor in the world. Statement No. 3 Woman speaking:. A woman who moved on our street a few summers ago keeps her yard 549 JULY 1966 so neat that it is influencing others in the neighborhood to improve the appearance of their home surroundings. THE MASTER TEACHER We can perfect ourselves in teaching the gospel through studying the life and applying the teaching principles and examples of Jesus. He was the greatest of all teachers. He is considered to be such, even by those who do not recognize him as the Messiah, the Savior of mankind. Jesus gave more than instruction. His was the creative teaching that invites the mind to think, to ask, to contemplate beyond the sound of the teaching voice. So effective were his examples and his teaching words that, after nearly two milleniums of time, minds are still motivated toward the spiritual, and the whole personality is motivated to react. The scriptures do not tell us much about the childhood of Jesus, but we find him in the temple at the age of twelve, conversing upon spiritual matters with mature men, who were learned in the letter of the law. Surely Jesus sought his Heavenly Father early. That he was continually enlightened by the inspiration of God, his divine Father, and by a study of scriptures, is evident throughout his ministry. Thus he was spiritually prepared for his mission, not only by a knowledge of scripture but by an understanding of all gospel truth. JESUS UNDERSTOOD HIS LISTENERS That Jesus understood human nature is observed as he revealed the hidden thought, the con- 550 cealed intent, and the deep yearning of those who came to him, either to learn, to worship, or to condemn. He knew their way of life, the values which they esteemed, the status symbols to which some of them paid homage, often causing them to be superficial and unkind. His compassion for the weak, his willingness to acknowledge the good beyond the sin in man, and his universal love, were overwhelming. JESUS MET THEIR NEEDS The teaching methods of Jesus were in harmony with the needs and responses of those whom he addressed. With the accusing scribes and self-righteous Pharisees, he sparred with words, line against scriptural line. To the publicans and sinners he projected the joy of the better life, through repentance and forgiveness. He helped them to understand that our Father in heaven is a God of mercy and that his forgiveness is an expression of his love. With analogies chosen from the familiar and the commonplace, the most humble and unlearned of his followers understood the central truth he wished to teach, and easily identified himself with the characters in Jesus' apt illustrations. Thus in that loved parable, The Prodigal Son, both sinner and Pharisee present must have taken to themselves a personal application —the uncharitable Pharisee seeing himself as the elder brother; the sinner identifying himself with the prodigal who squandered away his inheritance, but who, repentant and teachable, returned to receive the rejoicing love of his father. JESUS MADE HIS TEACHING VITAL Jesus made his lessons vital. He dramatized them by using terms they understood, rather than by abstractions. By using the tangible and the familiar, he helped them to see and understand the intangible. Jesus' use of the familiar and commonplace in his analogies to illustrate a moral truth was impressive and memorable—a city set upon a hill (Matt. 5:14), a candle under a bushel (Matt. 5:15-16), the salt of the earth (Matt. 5:13), the lilies of the field (Matt. 6:28). His similes were forceful and imaginative. Using moth and rust that corrupt and thieves that steal (Matt. 6:19), he made vivid the truth that earthly treasures are transient and ephemeral; that only the good life is everlasting. He likened those who hear and keep his commandments to a wise man who built his house upon a rock (Matt. 7:24-27), which withstood the destructive forces of both wind and flood. To teach that one does not bargain for God's mercy and love, he gave the parable of the laborers and the hours (Matt. 20:1-15). In the parable of the talents he taught that one, even seemingly insignificant talent is precious if improved. (Matt. 25:14-27.) To portray the need for each one to be teachable, he used the familiar landscape in the parable of the sower and the seed. The seed (the word of God) which fell upon good soil (the teachable) bringing forth fruits of the good life. (Matt. 13:3-9.) JESUS MADE FRIENDS OF HIS DISCIPLES "A great teacher plants the LESSON DEPARTMENT seed of greatness in his pupil and cultivates that seed with patience until it comes to fruition. He never lets him lose sight of what he might become" (Priesthood lesson 17). Jesus lived near to his disciples, listening to their problems, trusting them, preparing them for the great mission of carrying forth his word when he would no longer be among them. QUESTION Which of the various teaching methods used by Jesus are applicable to our daily teaching of adults? Of children? SUMMARY There are many ways by which Latter-day Saint women may fulfill their role in teaching one another the truths of the gospel. By word, verbal or written, by attitude, by example, and by prepared instruction. They further the kingdom of God when they live in harmony with its teachings and whenever and wherever they influence others to do likewise. To perfect their own lives and to teach others more effectively, they look to the example of Jesus of Nazareth, the Master Teacher, whose gospel they are admonished to teach. FOR DISCUSSION Questions that appear in. The lesson. FOR HOME-DOING 1. Reread the address given by President. Hugh B. Brown, (pages 884-890, December 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine), and the addresses of the General Presidency of Relief Society, (pages 804-812, November 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine). 551 JULY 1966 Women of Relief Society are guided by the spoken and written word of the General Authorities. 2. Reread the portion of this lesson which deals with Jesus, the Master Teacher. List several spiritual truths which may become teaching guides for you in influencing others for good and in teaching the gospel in your home. NOTE TO CLASS LEADER All ideas and illustrations appearing in this lesson contribute to the general objective. The class leader, however, may wish to emphasize some of them even to the exclusion of others as she adapts the lesson material to her particular group. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family | T Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 1—A Candle of Understanding "Light a candle of understanding in thine heart'' (2 Esdras). (Text: Out of the Best Books, Volume II: Love, Marriage, and the Family, Section |) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: A woman of understanding tempers knowledge with compassion @ The Cultural Refinement lessons, as stated in the preview, have as their objective '"'the presentation of cultural and fine arts which will reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Relief Society sister, that she may realize a cultural wholeness that will, in turn, be radiated in her home and benefit all members of her family."" The lesson should be approached and developed from this point of view. The selections which begin this year's course of study attempt 552 and sympathy with sensitivity. To provide insight into the understanding which is basic to most human relationships. "The Plaid Dress," by Edna St. Vincent Millay aids us in understanding ourselves; "My Little Boy" examines parent-child relationships; "Sixteen" continues a focus on general family understanding; and the Book of Ruth extends problems in understanding to those relatives who become part of the family through marriage. If the material in the lesson stresses understanding within the family, the concepts which are discussed are just as applicable to relationships which we establish with neighbors, friends, social acquaintances or business associates, for we are all part of the Lord's family. Keeping this in mind helps us temper our knowledge of human weakness with the compassion we ordinarily reserve for close relatives. Yet understanding is more than sympathy. We may feel rather strong emotional identification without committing ourselves to any positive action. Commiseration, in fact, may be attractively passive. Like the comforters of Job, we may find it easier to sit silently beside this object of our concern than to attempt the often frustrating task of understanding enough to be of positive help. Job's friends are anxious to weep for him, but not one of them really tries to understand the nature of Job's difficulty. When they finally do speak, they are so busy giving stock answers that they never get around to determining exactly what Job's problem is. Such sympathy needs to be completed by a sensitivity that brings comfort into focus. When sympathy and sensitivity are brought together, they turn into sensibility, that warm responsiveness that gives wholeness to our relationships. Loving support is both extended and received. We may be under few illusions about ourselves or the other members of our family, but our united strength seems equal to the tasks we face together. "THE PLAID DRESS"—EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY The opening stanza of 'The Plaid Dress" is one long question. LESSON DEPARTMENT As it builds, detail by detail, an implicit answer begins to take form. To begin with, souls don't bleach as easily as curtains, and even the suggestion that the "sun" can be thought of in a plural sense—as a source of light, warmth, even life itself (note that "bleach" requires a plural subject)—only reinforces the idea that we can't rely on the external to solve internal problems. The second stanza forces us to admit that we are responsible for ourselves. No pretense will really make a colored gown appear white, and conventional confession does not absolve us of guilt. The final four lines are almost despairing in their acceptance. CLASS DISCUSSION To what extent does the clothing of bad habits and attitudes; which "The Plaid Dress" exemplifies, reflect our own tasteless choice? Do we really want a new dress or just a Sunday coat to cover the daily plaid that is our usual costume? The impact of this poem is an emphatic one, but its message will depend on the attitudes we bring to this common realization of individual shortcomings. What seems to be Miss Millay's conclusion is that recognition of sin merely leads to resignation. It is "just the way we are." Yet this needn't be the resolution we take from these lines. We are responsible, but self-understanding need not forbid change. The comforting admonition of Isaiah—'"though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow'—gives us confidence in our ability to repent. We needn't be hypocrites and pretend to be better than we are, but neither should we resign ourselves into thinking that our sins are an unchanging garment. "MY LITTLE BOY''—CARL EWALD There could be no better preparation for reading "My Little 553 JULY 1966 Boy" than singing such Primary songs as "I Am a Child of God," for the fresh insight which looking through a child's eyes provides, almost creates a new world. It is important to note, however, that we do not lose our adult perspective by trying to appreciate a child's reaction. What a work such as "My Little Boy" does is to cut away the sham and pretense which mask so much of our adult behavior. Each member of the family grows in this book. The easy, grown-up assumption that all children are charmed by whimsy and makebelieve is clearly questioned in the opening section of this account. We are forced to ask ourselves how a child does learn when his parents are telling the truth and when they are "pretending." The childish promise of section VI suddenly takes on frightening —and family-wide—dimensions. Father and mother come to know themselves, and their teachings. If the mother seems overly cautious at this point, her balancing role is given its full weight in section XVII. Here it is the father who would protect his child. The mechanical, make-work activity that is characteristic of much elementary schooling distresses him, and he tries to warn his son against that which he will be facing. The child's mother is no less aware of possible loss, but she is far more aware of possible gain. School is necessary lest freedom turn into license. Conformity need not be degrading; it can be meaningful preparation for full obedience. The influence which any activity outside the home can have on a 554 child is controlled by attitudes set in the home. The explicit preparation which family understanding can provide for the world outside the home is effectively presented in the account which describes a youngster's first contact with economics. Note how the father lets his son learn economic principles. One of the hallmarks of a house of understanding is that its members not only are told; they learn. As tenderly presented in "My Little Boy," a home is the place in which both parents and children mature. CLASS DISCUSSION Are the child's responses in "My Little Boy" too simple? How much should circumstances alter basic attitudes? What would you suggest as an important concept which the little boy taught his father? "SIXTEEN''—JESSAMYN WEST "Sixteen" offers hope to the mother of teenagers. Although only implied in the story, part of the strain between daughter and parents here is Cress' refusal to allow a point of view that differs from her own. This is casually but clearly stated in the author's comment that Cress "lived inside a world so absolutely fitted to her own size and shape that she felt any intrusions... To be unmerited invasions of her privacy." Cress' actions support this thesis at every point. The light-hearted conversations she exchanges with Edwin is simply a recital of her reactions. The girls with whom she lives are described as "eating out of her hand.'"' But the detail that reveals Cress most clearly to us is her comment on the col- lege gardener: "He's old,' she told Edwin. "He doesn't exist." It is a tribute to Miss West's skill that such a comment sounds less cruel than sad in the context in which we find it. We don't dislike Cress so much as we feel sorry for her. She is so deliberately poverty-stricken! In reducing her world to the here, the now, and the personal, she appears to be nearer six than sixteen. Because she obviously is a sensitive, intelligent girl, however, we do not lose hope. Surely something will happen that will help her "put away childish things." What does happen is the satisfying point of the story. We begin to see a little change when she must face Edwin's unexpected disapproval of her decision not to return home. "Why Edwin!" is all she can say. Her usual flippant comment is shocked out of her. For a moment she must look at herself through another's eyes, and the image is unsettling. Although she quickly becomes resentful and self-centered again, there is an unmistakable crack in the wall which surrounds her world. It is not a sudden acknowledgment of duty or feeling of concern that leads Cress to the mature insight of her final comments, however. It is the overwhelming realization that it is not age which divides us, or youth which unites us, but a shared love for the beautiful which ties heart to heart. In understanding her grandfather, in seeing that he is "just like me," Cress has opened her life to love which must be extended as well as received. In asking her parents LESSON NEPARTMENT why they didn't tell her this, Cress is both exasperating and appealingly adolescent. She has not had ears to hear or eyes to see before. CLASS DISCUSSION What evidence is there, when we first meet Cress, that she is capable of becoming the girl we see at the end of "Sixteen"? What has Cress really found out at the end of this story? If the parents are too close to be heard, the grandfather is at just the right distance. Through him, Cress can see herself with that combination of identification and detachment that brings a distorted image into focus. 'It is this sense of larger but still close world, that the extended family of grandparents, uncles, aunts, and cousins provides. In understanding generated at this level, there is a secure link with the known, yet a meaningful transfer to the world outside the home. In contemplating such relationships, we might well ask ourselves such questions as these: Am I providing opportunity for my children to experience the growth that association with grandparents provides? Am I guilty of feeling, possibly in less obvious form than Cress', resentment for age? How do we reach below the superficial and temporary to find the eternal values which can unite all ages? THE BOOK OF RUTH The final selection for this month, the Book of Ruth, is rarely appreciated for the wholesome love which it exemplifies. Some critics feel that this is really Naomi's story, for it begins and ends with her. After five skillful verses, this account has set the stage, established background, and presented the problem which will dominate the story. Bereft of her husband and sons, Naomi decides to return to her ancestral home. As her daughters-in-law prepare to accompany her, Naomi gently 555 JULY 1966 suggests that they remain behind. When they protest their determination to go with her, Naomi tries to let them see how hopeless their situation would be in Bethlehem-Judah. She _ reminds them of the improbability of her having more sons, and most unlikely of all, the girls being willing to wait until additional sons grew up. (See Deuteronomy 25:5-10.) In this scene, so rarely commented upon, we see Naomi's tender concern for and understanding of two girls who are so dear to her that she will send them away in order that they may have normal, fulfilled lives. In fact, the depth of Naomi's love for her daughters-in-law helps her understand Ruth's devotion. The real meaning of this devotion, however, does not become evident until the two women are in Bethlehem. When Ruth suggests that she glean in order to support them, we begin to see that Ruth's concern for Naomi is as practical as it is intense. It is worthy of note that what impresses Boaz most, when he first meets Ruth, is her blameless life and dedication to Naomi. When Ruth comes home with an astonishing amount of grain, Naomi realizes that someone must have helped her. ENRICHMENT THROUGH PAINTING When Boaz agrees to do "all that [Ruth] requirest,'"' we know that he realizes the part he must play in this family drama and is not reluctant to participate. Naomi's anxiety and hope are evident in her question to Ruth when she returns: "Who art thou, my daughter?" In other words, "Are you the future Mrs. Boaz? Did it work?" Boaz surely realizes who suggested Ruth's course of action, for he gives her six measures of barley and the understanding comment: "'Go not empty unto thy mother in law." Near the end of this account (which manages to achieve some suspense in spite of the fact that there are no villains to thwart) when Ruth bears a son, the neighbor women praise Ruth to Naomi saying, "for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath born him." (Ruth 4:15.) The neighbors also decide on a name for the little boy and in their excitement declare that there is "'a son born to Naomi." CLASS DISCUSSION It has been suggested that unhappy families are unhappy in many ways, but that all happy families are happy in the same way. Comment on this in the light of the conclusion to the Book of Ruth. In connection with the literature presented in this lesson, and as an enrichment of cultural refinement through the arts, the beautiful painting "The Gleaners," by Millet (The Relief Society Magazine for June 1966, page 446) is to be studied. Note the discussion of the painting by Professor Floyd Breinholt on the page opposite the painting. 556 UNFINISHED BUSINESS Amy Hillyard Jensen When we brought our sixth baby home from the hospital, our elder children were delighted with her. But our four-year-old son Eric found a small fault. "Mama," he asked me one morning, ''Why didn't Heavenly Father finish making the baby?"' "Why, honey, what do you mean? Heavenly Father did finish making the baby!"' "No he didn't,'' Eric insisted. '""She doesn't have any teeth." This became a family joke, one that | often retell. But it started me thinking. Aren't we sometimes like the child whose knowledge is so limited that he can't understand much of what's happening around him? It was easy to explain to Eric that our new baby really did have teeth, but that we couldn't see them yet. In Heavenly Father's own time, they would cut through the surface of her gums, just when she was ready to use them. But it isn't so easy for us to explain some of the other mysteries of life. What do we tell a friend who has lost a beloved child? Are we able still to acknowledge the Lord's wisdom when a valiant struggle ends in apparent failure? Can we look at a situation that appears ugly and forbidding and believe that good will eventually come of it if living in righteousness? Sometimes it's hard to do. But, as the years pass, we begin to realize that all of life is built on growth and change—that the Lord doesn't leave any of his creations ''unfinished."' lf given the proper food and care, the infant will eventually grow not one, but two sets of teeth. Given sunshine and rain, the withered bulb will eventually bloom as a scarlet tulip. Nourished by faith and prayer, a shattered hope will someday become the foundation for undreamed of blessings. PATCHWORK QUILT Marian F. Apedaile Life is becoming more and more like a patchwork quilt. We add a piece as we live each day. The thing to do is make each piece as pretty as possible, so that when we leave this life, we will be remembered by the beautiful pieces we have left behind. MORNING BY THE SEA Sylvia Probst Young On softly rolling water, morning sun Flecked golden, gently rides toward the land, And white fringed wavelets, fingering the shore, Leave etchings traced in silver on the sand. Far in the distance, where the blue meets blue, A ship's hull rises, phantom like... The cry Of soaring seagull breaks the solitude, In this vast world of sand and sea and sky; This quiet world where fear and vain regret Are lost to me—at this lone oceanside, | walk and feel a power, infinite, With time eternal—constancy of tide, And life beginning new at each sunrise— Beyond the reach of sea | lift my eyes. 557 COOK ELECT RIC 4e3 Pots and pans stay '"'white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY HILL CUMORAH TOURS July 1966 SUMMER PARADISE HAWAIIAN TOUR July 23 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 21 SOUTHERN PARKS Labor Day Tour September 3 NEW ENGLAND—CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SUMMERTIME Margory E. Green Farnham, Surrey, England | find no words which will describe The beauty of the countryside; The sweet wild flowers greet my eye And sparkling streams flow gently by The shady woods and valleys green Add splendor to this lovely scene. My heart beats faster as | gaze At greenest trees, And summer haze fills the meadows With a shroud Like silvery billows on a cloud. So perfect is creation fair, A glorious garden blooming there. A paradise of beauty rare Free! For all mankind to share. Such beauty lightens every heart. Peace forever to impart. | pray ail living souls will share These gifts from God's creation fair. 558 Lovo" Fine Quality Nylon Tricot QUILTING MATERIAL in 12 colors ote For sample and information write Leboy! 2511 South West Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 Tour the Holy Land This Fall Via Pan American Jet TOUR LEAVES OCTOBER lith Murdock Travel's annual Fall tour of the ever inspiring Holy Land provides you with 21 days of high quality, worry-free travel. Assured of luxury travel on Pan American jet clippers and superb accommodations in the finest hotels... All at unusually low cost! The tour includes all of the Holy Land as well as places such as Istanbul, Cairo, Athens, and Rome. W. Cleon Skousen, Tour Director Mr. Skousen is a foremost L. D. S. Authority on the Holy Land and the author of several successful books. Among these are: So You Want to Raise a Boy? The First Two Thousand Years, and The Third Thousand Years. THE HOLY LAND. MURDOCK TRAVEL ——e Cement ecesreeseeesereeseeeeseeseeseeeeeseeseeeseseeOunesue MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101, Phone 328-3161 PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF aState... Zip eee HAWAII Flying both ways or Ship one way July 12 — August 12 September 3 — October 15 November 18 ROSE PARADE and HAWAIIAN TOUR CANADIAN and NORTHEASTERN STATES TOUR September PAGEANT TOURS July 23 — 27 Days July 16 — 16 Days AIR TOUR TO PAGEANT PAGEANT and BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR July 18 — 23 Days Ask about Rose Parade Tour ALASKA — JUNE 1967 MEXICO IN FALL Reservations made _ individually on ship, airplane, train, bus, and hotel reservations also made. Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 328-8981 — 467-5763 — 485-2444 You are « « « ei « « ©. Mmaceeeseescenecereoereserenee PRs: July 66, A BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8...1,.20 Zone 5.......... 80 (oN. DESERET PREWS PRESS 559 Zone 1 and 2.....55 Zone 6.......... -90 98 Mrs. Eva Christena Ottesen Evans 9 Mrs. Elizabeth Diana Merritt WP Mrs. Clara Ann Ashcroft. Martin Il Mrs. Sally Quachmana Toone Polacca, Arizona Mrs. Sarah Luella Scovil Hendricksen Pocatello, Idaho Rupert, Idaho Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Fulling Luthy Wagner Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Chapman Richey Tucson, Arizona Mrs. Magdalene Schoenfeld Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Amelia Jensen Topham Parowan, Utah Mrs. Estella Cole Cordon - Ogden, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah FELT-BOARD PICTURE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Flannel Mountains, outlined Sharply, cling to blue felt. Torn white tissue paper clouds patch This sky. 560 "5 PE Peres gt & i ee Ff by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.95 A worthy addition to the four previous volumes in the series. Volume V contains a complete appendix listing alphabetically all the questions answered in this and previous volumes. Here's why you'll want Volume V of Answers to Gospel Questions; President Smith discusses, among other topics, these vital subjects: ¢ Adam is not the Father of Jesus Christ * Use of Cola Drinks and Playing Games of Chance * Was the Apostle Paul Married? * What is the Meaning of First Death? ¢ Organic Evolution and the Age of Man « Why Do We Not Observe Good Friday? THE LITTLE THINGS by Mirla Greenwood Thayne $2.50 The little things in life are among the sweetest — and Mirla Greenwood Thayne has a joyous time recalling for us the humble, everyday little things that make our lives a pleasure. Her sensitive and well written recollections of Relief Society service will make this a treasured volume for all Latter-day Saint women. ReSSSSOHSSeHeSeSeSeSSeeSSHeeSeeses DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 777 South Main Street Orange, California 92669 Utah residents please add 342% sales tax when ordering from Salt Lake City store. California residents please add 4% when ordering from Orange store. Pererrr: The Little Things 1 enclose check / money order for total cost, plus tax where appropriate. Or, charge my account. Seret Boo OMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Send me........ Volume V of Answers to Gospel Questions R. S. JULY Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Your Beneficial Life dollars work for you—and your community. Besides providing life insurance protection for you and your family at most favorable rates, the dollars you invest in Beneficial Life also help build your local community and your state. For example, water... Pure, sparkling and clear... Water for drinking, for washing, for watering our lawns and gardens is something we take for granted—until we don't have it! Then it suddenly becomes very precious indeed. Beneficial Life dollars have helped build and improve water BENEFICIAL LIFE supply systems for many western communities. | \ png Srsurance Company One of the West's oldest and largest life insurance companies—serving 11 Western States and Ohio. Virgil Hace Ere. Sollee : d ¢ e = - + - a at = e. -. Tm, =. J, ra we * 7. % a come "6 ad 7 cr.. _* ' le KM Stohr x. ». " Dorothy J. Roberts a* +> * As winds of spring watk over the hill again - sy Bringing*a strange,, new 'summer,,. Ft whom your tongue had taught' ~ + \ 'With iridescent syllables, * + Must dearn and "unlearn cn All things*dimmed and shucked. R And winnowed of your word— _— Of trees unleaved and tumbled; cloud, " " And rain's pale ri of ewidence in, every pool; 4; ~. Of places unadorne - ' Vacuum sand, vacant * of 'your ward. Cn: - All wanetied wonder of the waterfall « *. Sealed and Silent, as Throat. Of thrush without the bright Cadenza of. Reply: demust speak 'in honest tones, Not' murmured in the starry meadows of the night, Not maiden-shy, but unabashed * Im Summer and the light. "s Thougfistorn to cling around the margin of your name, The shimmering substance of a phrase recalled, The continent your faith had formed for me, witngipsour eyes, to see, your tone, to guide; alk where words abide, not yours, "ya mist ae into the rustle of new fields maar edition furrows of response. Upil of" your power,.!| must stand a Until the green grows high around me, x. «© Tasseled «with» the harvest of. Reply, /~ = And glean, « « = = When the bending heatis™ are swollen, ° - With the ripened kernel: of new sound, ir. "4 As Ruth, the alien summer from the ground. / ':*: Piiire Cover: Mountain Scene in Argentina..: »". * Transparency by Free Lance Photographers Guild; J, *?. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: —jCovered Bridge and Tree-Lined Brook "a [ a Photograph by Harold M. Lambert. "sp Art" Layout: Dick Scopes '| ~ Illustrations: §j Mary. Scopes iw. «9 " Js " oe ~ ia a @ * ow". / | want to express my appreciation for the spiritual uplift that | receive from The Relief Society Magazine. | teach home economics and use the ideas for projects and crafts in my classes. We are still permitted to have devotions in our school. | always use the visiting teacher message when it is my turn to present devotion to the student body. There are always compliments on our devotion, and | tell the students and faculty '"'That was Mormon devotions" taken from The Relief Society Magazine. | am the only member of the faculty, and the only member of my family who has joined the Church. Julia R. Clark Tracy City, Tennessee We sisters of the Chandler Spanish Branch want to take this opportunity to express our gratitude for the privilege of having The Relief Society Magazine translated into the Spanish language. We feel it is another great milestone for the Spanish-speaking people. Mrs. Marva B. Tarwater President, Spanish Branch Chandler, Arizona The first prize-winning story "For Barbara, With Love'' (by Evelyn Elizabeth Vesterfelt, January 1966) was very good. | think | have never read a story on conversion that was handied so tactfully—for, of course, the conversion was the theme of the story. Dorothy Clapp Robinson Provo, Utah | want you to know how much | enjoyed the beautiful frontispiece poem of the May issue ''Place of Prayer," by Marilyn McMeen Miller. It is so inspirational, and being accompanied by those lovely photographs makes the poem all the more effective. Mrs. Peter Hansen Tempe, Arizona 562 é bom Near aul Sy On page 363 of the lovely May is appears a very choice article "A Pi Full of Peas,"' by Helen Hinckley Jones. Helen and | were in school toget at Weber High in Ogden, Utah. T inspirational and interesting arti which appear in every issue of Magazine make it a ''must" in home. Dr. Russell B. Provo, U | would like to state that the st "To Barbara, With Love' (First Story, January 1966) is one of most wonderful stories | have read. Sister Vesterfelt has done a derful work in composing that sto was telling one of the young missi aries about it, and he borrowed copy to read. The Relief Society azine is one of the very best in ments | ever made. Mrs. Alverna Manning Al West Panama City Beach, Flori | very much enjoyed reading the sto "That Certain Sparkle' (April 1966) by Frances Carter Yost who is m cousin. My daughter is fast becomi acquainted with the stories and reci in the Magazine. | feel that the contents of the Magazine can fill a gr need in her life, as well as in t lives of other young people who will be the homemakers of tomorrow. Beverly H. Isr. Salt Lake Citv. U 1 must write and tell you the enjoy | have received from the story " for the Wise" (serial by Margery Stewart). Something from reality feel! Please, we must have more st of this type by this author. Fay S. P Blackfoot,! the Relief Society waczzine Volume 53 August 1966 Number 8 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 564 How to Preserve Freedom Bruce R. McConkie 569 Are We Seekers? Helen Hinckley Jones 583 Summer Morning on the Temple Grounds Olive D. Twiddy 584 Songs for Relief Society Singing Mothers Choruses Florence J. Madsen Fiction 570 Run Away Home Jody Shields 576 With These Hands Veronica Blagrove 586 <A Place to Retire Frances Carter Yost 604 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 2 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 562 From Near and Far 579 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 580 Editorial: ''Behold, There Are Many Called, But Few Are Chosen" Louise W. Madsen 582 Notes to the Field: The Relief Society Annual General Conference 610 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 640 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out Serving Apple Dumpling—Favorite Dessert, Asel B. Brodt, 592; Recipes From New Zealand, Ngaio A. Hughes, 594; "Quickie" Recipes and Cooking Hints, Bernice Broderick, 596; Gay Luncheon Cloths, Shirley Thulin, 598; Oh, What a Beautiful Day, Amy G. Bond, 601; Marjorie B. Silver—Maker of Fruit Cakes, 602; Surface Cleaning, Dorothy C. Little, 603. Lesson Department 617 Spiritual Living—Pre-Earth Life Roy W. Doxey 624 Visiting Teacher Message—''Fear Not, Let Your Hearts Be Comforted...." Alice Colton Smith 625 Homemaking—Extending Homey Hospitality Hazel S. Cannon 627 Social Relations—The Sensitive Line Alberta H. Christensen 632 Cultural Refinement—Refinement Creates Beauty Bruce B. Clark Poetry 561 Alien Summer Dorothy J. Roberts Summer Song, Zara Sabin, 567; Brief Tenure, Alice Morrey Bailey, 568; Requiem, Vera R. Holden, 575; For Those Who See, Rose Thomas Graham, 575; Her Hands, May Swenson, 578; Back to the House, Christie Lund Coles, 582; Here... With a Tiny Daughter, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 590; Sparks of Creativity, Pearle M. Olsen, 591; August, Alda L. Brown, 593; Cliffs of Tumurru, Elizabeth M. Lauritzen, 609; Bee Myrtle, Ethel Jacobson, 623; At Conference, Sarah Heron, 638. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in sectién 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. How to Preserve Freedom Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of The First Council of Seventy @ 'Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?" So spake Paul to the centurion as the soldiers bound the apostle with thongs and prepared him for the persecutor's lash. Then said the centurion to the chief captain, "Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman." "Art thou a Roman?" the chief captain asked Paul. "Yea," said the apostle. "With a great sum obtained I this freedom," said the chief captain. But Paul said, "I was free born" (Acts 22:25-28). Free born! Born to freedom! Born to be free! Paul, a Roman— born heir to the freedom of Roman citizenship, claiming his rights and privileges under the law! The chief captain—envious that he had not always been so blessed, yet rejoicing that he was an adopted citizen of the empire, entitled also to enjoy the protection of its laws and the freedom of its established way of life! How like this illustration is the case with the citizens of God's earthly kingdom—some born in the Church, and others adopted through the cleansing waters of baptism, but all inheritors of a freedom, a liberty found nowhere else on earth. God deals in freedom; his gospel is the law of liberty; and it is through the free use of his divinely bestowed gift 564 of agency that his saints inherit the blessings of his kingdom. In the pre-mortal life all of the spirit children of God were endowed with agency—the freedom of choice, the liberty which, if used wisely, would enable them to progress and become like their Father. When the Father presented his plan of salvation to his spirit children, he asked, in effect: "Whom shall I send to be my Son, through whose ministry and infinite atonement the terms and. Conditions of the plan of salvation shall be put in force?" There were two _ volunteers. Jesus, the Firstborn, stepped forward and in thought content said: "Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy Son; I will accept thy plan of agency; and Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever." But Lucifer, a son of the morning, "sought to destroy the agency of man," by proposing: 'Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that not one soul shall be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor." Thereupon the Lord said, "I will send the first'; Lucifer rebelled; "'there was war in heaven"; and those spirits who feared the testings and trials of an agency-centered mortal probation were cast out of heaven. And here on earth they continue the war that began in heaven, the Jesus" (Moses 4:1-4; Abraham 3-22-28; Rev. 42:7-17)- To keep liberty which alone advancement, gression, and salvation can come °_the Lord has given to mortal man his gospel. This gospel, by definition and in its nature, ls "the perfect law of liberty" (James 1:25). Those who receive it are "called unto liberty" (Gal. 5:13); they inherit "the glorious liberty i God" is, there is liberty" (2 Cor. 3:17)- Thus freedom ig inherent ata grows out of, and comes. Because of the gospel. If there were n° gospel of Christ, there would be no freedom. When the gospel cause suffers, freedom is impaired. Liberty is of God; slavery _ And the cause and which strengthens the d to the cause of righteousness. Slavery of whatever degree or kind is not of God, but rather, for that it denies freedom, it is part of Satan's substitute for God's true plan. The divine decree, "proclaim liberty throughout all the Jand unto all the inhabitants thereof" HOW TO PRESERVE FREEDOM (Lev. 25:10), is, in the final analysis, a command to preach the gospel, which is the world's one perfect standard of liberty. In this same sense Christ himself came ''to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are pound" (Isa. 61:1). (See also, Luke 4 practical purposes freedom is the gospel and the gospel is freedom, and quite another to create and preserve that governmental system which, in practice, assures freedom to its citizens. Tt must be recognized that liberty, though i d sole property of the Rather freedom, liberty, agency, choice—all these operate in every field of human life, whether civic or religious, social of sacred, church of state, temporal or spiritual. In fact, when men think £ freedom, they nor- -. Attention t0 foundations which be established if freedom is to exist in any field. In all nations there are political parties, economic extremist pressure groups which are the Pp Communist-inspired courses. Tt is often difficult for people, 565 AUGUST 1966 including members of the Church, to know what trumpet to heed. In the very nature of things, most members of the Church desire to pursue that course which will preserve their freedom and enable them to worship God in such a way as to work out their salvation. But the question is one of how to go about it, what course to pursue, what group to support, what leaders to follow. How are we to apply the principles of freedom, not only in the strictly religious field, but in civic and governmental concerns? Difficult as the problem may seem on the surface, perhaps the real answer is found in a simple recurrence to fundamental principles. Perhaps the problem is not one of determining what political cause to espouse, but of expending our strength and influence in furthering those gospel principles out of which freedom and liberty grow. Asked how he governed so great and diverse a people as the Latter-day Saints, Joseph Smith replied that he taught them correct principles and they governed themselves. Nothing guides men as well as a knowledge of true principles. Speaking in the April 1966, General Conference of the Church, Elder Harold B. Lee counseled Church officers and members to devote their strength and talents to sustaining the gospel cause as a means of preserving freedom. We should all learn that the fundamentals of gospel teachings are the Lord's weapon against evil and sins of all kinds whether they be _ political dangers, immorality, or threatened family disaster, or any other sinister affliction among us. 566 Then Elder Lee quoted these words from President David O. McKay, words which President McKay uttered in the 1962 October General Conference: In these days of uncertainty and unrest, liberty-loving people's greatest responsibility and paramount duty is to preserve and proclaim the freedom of the individual, his relationship to Deity, and the necessity of obedience to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Only thus will mankind find peace and happiness (Church News, April 16, 1966). In other words, there is nothing a member of the Church can do to preserve and strengthen the cause of freedom which will compare in importance with strengthening and preserving the gospel cause. The gospel brings freedom; it begets liberty in the hearts and lives of its adherents; and only when all men are converted to and live in harmony with gospel principles will perfect liberty prevail among all peoples, Others may render their best services in less important fields, but where members of the Church are concerned, the cause of freedom is the cause of the gospel, and the spread of the gospel will bring to pass the triumph of liberty. Those who believe and obey the gospel teachings are freed from the bondage of sin. Jesus said, "Tf ye continue in my word," that is, if you keep the faith after re- ~ ceiving it, "then are ye my disciples indeed; And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." Why? Because, he said, "Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin" (John 8: 31-34). Our concern, thus, should be less on political principles and more on personal righteousness, less on strengthening this or that group, which from our finite viewpoint is one that furthers freedom, and more on_ sustaining those higher spiritual principles which God has said must be accepted if liberty is to live. This does not mean we have no civic responsibilities or that we leave the solution of governmental problems to others. What is involved is a matter of emphasis and perspective, a matter of putting first in one's life the things of God's kingdom, and of letting strictly political considerations step down to a secondary station. God's promise, made of old, was to "set up... A free people by the power of the Father," on the American continent. (3 Nephi 21:4.) This he did by establishing the Constitution, "by the hands of wise men,"' who were "raised up unto this very purpose." This was done, he said, "That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment" (D&C 101: 77-80). Those freedoms which are guaranteed by the United States Constitution are in fact the inalienable rights of ''all mankind," SUMMER SONG Zara Sabin HOW TO PRESERVE FREEDOM the Lord says, not just of people who live in America. Accordingly, the Lord expects his saints everywhere, in all nations, to use their influence for good in selecting wise and honest men to serve in all governmental capacities. (D&C 98:4-10). But neither the American nor any other governmental system is perfect. All present systems of government will be replaced during the millennium. The Lord has promised to make "a full end of all nations" (D&C 87:6), and that men "shall have no laws but my laws when I come...." (D&C 38:22). In conclusion, then, though the saints are expected to let their power and influence be felt for good in all governmental fields, thereby aiding the cause of freedom from a civic standpoint, by far their greatest commission and obligation lies in the spiritual realm. For, in the final analysis, the way to preserve freedom is to preach the gospel, to persuade men to live by gospel standards, for such are the standards of freedom and liberty. Only when the day comes that all men are free born, through the gospel, in the full spiritual sense, will all be free. We can preserve and sustain the cause of freedom by spreading the gospel and making it a living thing in the lives of men. Hear them, the gentle wind-fingers, Caressing the treetops, singing to the night. Even the nightingale, poised high for his trilling, Pauses to listen, his lullaby silenced, And the cicala, hidden in grasses, Tones his shrill cadence until it has ended— The soft summer song in the treetops. 567 Seene in Kamas Valley, Utah BRIEF TENURE Alice Morrey Bailey Outward, banished in rebuke, they went From that lush fruit, that beauty, that lost place, Fleeing wrath, the flaming sword, but bent Against the cold and dreary world's dark face. And each remembering generation seeks Utopia, paradise, but serpentiess, From tropic islands to the timbered peaks Throughout the length and breadth of wilderness. And some have held brief tenure on the soil, Found beauty in a cloud, a river's bend, Reclaimed a garden spot—with trust and toil, Gained weary peace beyond the stern day's end, With fragile fence against the wild, a plough To plant the earth, to fend the weed, Brought forth their daily bread by sweat of brow— Created Eden from an apple seed.. _ _-_— @ 'if there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." With these words the Prophet Joseph ended the Articles of Faith. He envisioned our gospel as not being confined within a limited creed, but as embracing everything of value. He envisioned the saints as ''seekers'' who would obey the admonition to read the best books and to study languages and sciences and all other branches of knowledge. Are we "'seekers''? The Church has sought after the virtuous, lovely, and praiseworthy. Our choirs sing superbly the world's best music; our youth program introduces our young people to all branches of culture; our educational system offers opportunity for everyone to seek knowledge; our Relief Society program offers courses comparable, in a limited way, to college instruction. But what about us individual members? When did you last visit a museum of natural history, an art gallery, a planetarium, a botanical garden, a zoo, even a library? When did you last take your child to one of these places? When did you hear a concert, see a play, listen to a lecture? When did you complete one of the adult education courses that are available in most every area? When did you last read, and share with someone else, a good book? We aren't too busy to be ''seekers.'' The Prophet Joseph wasn't too busy to organize a school for adult men with professors from nearby Hyrum College. He wasn't too busy, with all of his responsibilities, to be the most apt student in the school. Notice that, busy as he was, he didn't put this seeking sometime in the future. He didn't write ''We shall seek after these things'; he used the present tense, we seek. ° We aren't too busy to be seekers after the virtuous, lovely, and praiseworthy things. We just think we are. 569 @ I don't remember now what caused the hurt feelings. It was the summer before I started school and I had just turned six. The day was gloomy and rain dropped steadily from low-hanging, black clouds. Perhaps the dreariness of the weather was partly responsible. (Rainy days are rough when you have to stay indoors and there are five children between the ages of twelve and six.) What I do remember is that I was absolutely certain that no one loved me and that no one wanted me anymore. So I put on my coat and stormed out of the house into the rain. I walked along the side of the house, vowing in my heart that I would never set foot inside the door again. (Well, maybe. Long years from now I would return, a beautiful, rich princess. Like Joseph in the Bible story, I 570 Run Away Home Jody Shields would forgive everyone for driving me out into the rain so long ago.) I opened the gate that separated the yard from the pasture. This was hard for me to do because of my limited size and strength. While I was working on the gate, I heard Mother shout at me from the back door. She had interrupted her housework long enough to follow me. "If you stay out in that rain until you catch a cold, I'll punish you." But I was running away for good. She didn't need to worry if I caught cold or anything. In fact, she needn't worry about me ever again. I walked on through the pasture, past the granary, and across the canal bridge. The path was well worn as we made at least four trips daily going to and from the barn for milking. The gate to the barnyard was something I had not yet been able to master, so I climbed the rail fence and crossed the stackyard. When I reached the barn, I paused and leaned against its rough, gray siding. I stood there, well out of sight of the house, should anyone be searching for me through a window, and contemplated my future. It was obvious that I had to have some place to go—and soon. My hair was already beginning to hang in wet strands against my cheeks, and I could feel rain dripping from the ends. First thing, I must have shelter. I considered the barn, then rejected it and the granary and the calf pens, too, because they were all too close to the house. Then I remembered the little house my sister and I had built between the hills at the far side of the farm. We five children had been herding the cows on the hills and had decided we needed something to shade us from the hot sun. The boys built a lean-to with poles which they lashed together with rope and fence wire. They covered it with leaf-filled branches and wove them in and out to make a dense canopy of shade. We little girls had thought it was beautiful, but, with the natural contrariness of young manhood, they refused to let us inside. In fact, they sent us off to turn the cows while they basked in the shade, talking and whittling with their pocket knives. We grumbled briefly, then Marcia said, "Let's make our own house and leave them to herd the cows." RUN AWAY HOME "Where would we find any poles, or rope, or wire?" I wanted to know. "Over there," she said, pointing to a row of trees growing along the fence that separated our farm from the neighbors. "We should be able to find everything we need," she stated confidently. We turned the cows and trudged back to the _ lean-to. "Since you won't let us have any shade," Marcia told the boys, "we're going to do something about it." Then we circled the hills so the boys would really think we had gone and wouldn't come and make us turn the cows anymore. Tue hollow she had _ pointed out was almost choked with weeds and dead branches that scratched our bare legs as we searched along the tree line. We found no poles, but we did find a limb that had broken from one of the trees. It had caught in the forks several feet above the ground. The branches of the limb spread out across the ground, their leaves still green and fresh. "We'll use this," Marcia announced. We parted the branches closest to the trunk and looked around. It looked just fine to me. Of course we would need to break off some branches that hung down inside, but it was practically a ready-made house as it stood. We set to work and soon had cleared out the excess. Twigs. These we wove into the remaining branches, imitating as nearly as we could the way we had seen our brothers weave their roof. 571 AUGUST 1966 We had to gather a few branches from the other trees to finish it. That was hard work for 'two little girls without even a knife; but at last our shelter was finished. More, I think, as a result of exhaustion than from actually having assumed _ the status of lean-to. But, at least, it was shady, and it was ours. We spent the rest of the afternoon there, talking and dreaming about when we would be grown up, while magpies chattered and screeched above our heads. Thinking of the little house now, with the rain soaking through my old coat, I decided it would be just the place to go while I plotted my next move. I jumped down from the top rail and walked along the side of the pond. I passed the calf pens and tool sheds and walked across the end of the calf pasture to the first hill. This was the highest hill on a farm that was about all hills and hollows dotted with four ponds. There were a few acres of tillable land on the place. At the top of the hill, I paused and looked as far as I could see in every direction. I recalled a conversation Wayne had started last school year about a man named Columbus proving that the world was round. I had asked if he meant round like a pancake and he had said, "No, round like a ball." Now, standing on this highest hill, with my world spread out before me, everything looked basically flat. There stood the mountains far away in the distant purple west, and behind me the Wasatch Range rose towering in the east. Nothing that I could 572 see indicated any sloping sides like a ball. It seemed to me those big old mountains would slide off if they were perched on the side of a ball, so I concluded as I walked down the other side of the hill that he must have been mixed up. He probably meant round like a pancake, after all. I would remember to ask my teacher about it when I went to school this fall. Then I realized that I probably wouldn't be able to go to school, having run away from home and all. That was what my mother would have called "Cutting off my nose to spite my face." I wasn't quite sure what she meant by that, but thinking of her made me almost feel sad that I had run away for good. "She'll probably miss me," I told myself. My coat caught on the barbs as I climbed through the fence to the hay field. I tore it loose and clapped my hand over my mouth as I thought of what Mom would say when she saw the holes that were made. I knew Father would punish 'me if I crossed through his lucerne this near to mowing time, so I skirted the hay field to reach the irrigation ditch that ran along the foot of the next hill. There I had to decide if I should try to jump the ditch or follow it to where a plank bridge crossed it. I was beginning to feel rather cold, so decided to jump. There was just a little water in the bottom, but it was a deep ditch and its sides were steep. I half slid, half fell into the water. The water was cold and it soaked me through. I stood up carefully, half fearing that I had broken an arm or leg, or something. I climbed up the bank, slipping once or twice in the soft mud. Just over the hill and across the hollow and I would be "home." Thinking of the cozy, green-thatched little house revived my spirits and I trudged on up the hill. From the top I could see the hollow and the trees, and I tried to pick out the one where my run-away home nestled at the bottom of its trunk. Being this near, I began to think about other things which I would need. My wet clothes were growing increasingly uncomfortable, and I began to realize I would need more to wear than what I had on. I planned to wait until dark. After everyone had gone to sleep I would sneak back to the house and get the rest of my clothes. I might even get a box to keep them in. And food. I would have to have food. I wouldn't take much, though. I knew we weren't very rich and Mom couldn't spare much food to feed a little runaway child. Just some crackers and a jar of jelly, I decided, as I reached the weed-filled hollow. I was tired and my legs were beginning to ache with the cold. I began to chant, 'Not much farther... We're almost there... Not much farther... We're almost there," as mother often had us do, when we got tired walking to Sunday School. I reached the broken branch lean-to and found, to my dismay, that the leaves were withered RUN AWAY HOME and dead. Most of the branches had sagged or caved to the ground. Inside was a rubble of dead leaves and twigs. I set right to work, clearing out the inside and removing all the dead and wilted branches and leaves. Then I began to tear new branches from other trees to mend the roof. It was harder working by myself and not nearly as much fun. I began to wish I had asked Marcia to run away with me. It wouldn't be nearly as lonesome out here if she were along..— I was tired and cold, and my arms and legs were aching so I sat down inside my hut to rest. It was then I began to think of some of the things I hadn't considered before. Like the coyotes we heard howling on the hills after dark, and the dog packs daddy and the boys talked about that roamed the fields at night. "In a pack like that,' daddy had once said, "those dogs will do almost anything." I shivered, wondering if they would eat little hermit girls. I remembered the mosquitoes. We had slept out in the back yard one night when it was too hot inside and had about been eaten up with bites. Daddy said they breed in the ponds and there was a pond right over the hill. Wayne had said one night when he was camping with the scouts, he woke up and heard two of them talking. One said, 'Shall 573 AUGUST 1966 we eat him here or take him home with us?" and the other had replied, "'Let's eat him here. If we take him home, the big ones will take him away from us" We had all laughed, knowing it was a joke, but somehow, thinking about it now, it didn't seem funny. Before I quite realized what I was doing, and without actually deciding to do it, I found myself returning along the trail I had taken earlier. Only this time I went across the planks instead of through the ditch; and I went through the hay field instead of around it; and I crawled under the barbed wire fence instead of through it. I ran across the calf pasture to the barnyard. There, in the shelter of the tool shed, was my brother Fred, waiting for me. "Where have you been?" he asked. "Out walking,' I answered, trying to sound casual, and not at all cold. "Qh, sure, well, Mom is mad at you." That scared me. I guessed maybe I had been right in the first place. She really didn't want me, after all.. I mean... If she was just mad and not at all worried.... "Then I won't go in." I shrugged, trying not to show how I felt. "You want me to tell her that?" he asked, sounding as if he didn't care, either. "No!" I exclaimed "Just tell her you didn't even see me." He shrugged and started back to the house. I leaned against the wall of the shed and thought 574 about drowning myself in the pond or canal. Instead, I started to follow Fred. I stayed what I felt to be a safe distance behind. I didn't know if he would tell on me and yet in a way, I wished he would. If I could have thought of a way to go in and still save face, I would have followed him right into the house. But, I was stuck. I crawled into a sheltered place between the chicken coop and the granary to wait and think. Ir wasn't long before I heard the door slam, and around the corner of the house came mother. She was buttoning her coat as she walked and her head was bare. That was unusual, because Mom never went out into the rain without a scarf. My heart began to beat faster. I was afraid she was coming after me, but as she drew nearer, I could see the worry lines creasing her forehead. I started to call out to her, then some impulse stopped me. She walked right past me toward the barnyard. I crept along the side of the granary until I could see her again. I watched her walk along the canal bank outside the barmyard fence toward the tool shed. So, he did tell on me, I thought. But, then, instead of stopping by the calf pens or at the tool shed, she went on across the pasture. I watched her as she moved rapidly across the wet grass and up the sage-covered hill. I watched her until she was out of sight and then watched her in my mind as she climbed the barbed wire fence. I saw her as she skirted the hayfield, followed the ditch, crossed the plank bridge, climbed over the other hills. I could see her searching the hollows and around the reed-choked pond. In my mind, I could see her as she returned across the farm that wasn't much good for farming, but was a good place to rear children. When I did see her again, her head was bowed and her shoulders drooped tiredly. I wished and wished that I had called out and had taken a scolding or whatever she might have done to punish me. I thought of her hair getting wet and stringy and of her old coat, worn and threadbare, and RUN AWAY HOME not keeping out the cold. I knew, then, that no matter what else, I loved her. I wanted to be good to her and never to hurt her or cause her discomfort or worry again. Suddenly, I realized what I should have known all along... What I should never have doubted. My mother loved me, too. I knew, also, that for the rest of my life, no matter if I couldn't always agree with what she said, or things she did, we would always have this love between us. I left my hiding place and walked slowly out to meet her. REQUIEM Vera R. Holden Stockport, Cheshire, England Beyond my fence a line of poplars grew, Majestic, stately, reaching to the sky. Their beauty gave enhancement to the view, Invited notice; one could not pass by Without a thought for God who all trees made, To shelter man within their friendly shade. In summer suns they dreamed away the hours, Green sentinels, like soldiers in a row, As though they guarded all the garden flowers. | saw them planted, watched them thrive and grow, Aristocrats of every living tree, That's how the poplars always looked to me. A clumsy human, with ungentle hand, One autumn came before the leaves were brown; What motive | shall never understand, Had prompted him to cut the poplars down. | mourn their passing—miss their lofty grace, They gave so much, yet asked so little space. FOR THOSE WHO SEE Rose Thomas Graham | cannot scale the mountain tops, Nor touch a single star. My foot would falter in the climb, My hand not reach so far. But, oh! | have a grateful heart For these far-seeing eyes, That rocket to the highest peak, Encompass all the skies. 575 With These Hands Veronica Blagrove Headington, Oxford, England @ Sarah waved goodbye as the blue car slid silently away from the end of her driveway. She watched as Lucy swung the steering wheel dextrously to turn into the main road, and then walked through to the front door. They had spent the afternoon visiting three sisters who had recently moved into town. I'm so glad that we went to see them, she thought, they all seemed genuinely pleased to meet us. As she let herself into the. House, all was strangely quiet, and she smiled as she remembered the children's exclamations of glee when they had heard that they were sleeping at Grandma Harris' house that night. Joe's mother had been adamant, "You are going out to celebrate your 576 anniversary this year, and that is final! A present from Dad and me." Out to dinner! It was a long time since Sarah and Joe Harris had spent an evening out together. With three growing children to feed and clothe, Joe's salary just did not stretch to such luxuries. The clock in the hall made Sarah start slightly as it chimed four o'clock. Three hours and Joe would be home. They planned to leave at eight, and it might well be past midnight when they returned. I think I'll wear my blue dress. Joe likes that best of all. She smiled to herself again, then said aloud, "Take hold of yourself, Sarah Harris, you're a grown woman with three children, and here you are behaving like a teenager!" She took off her coat and seated herself at the table where she had left her sewing when Lucy had called to take her visiting teaching. I hope these gathers WITH THESE HANDS will lie flat around Cathy's waist, tidy?" she mused, as she regained She thought. Her balance after Stepping on a Her eyes softened 4s she model Jeep. Bob's bed was litthought of her chubby four-yeartered with books, while Ben had old whose Wide-eyed innocence some odd-shaped Pieces of wood the edge of the table. Snap! Ruebooks, coloring books, storybooks fully Sarah Surveyed the damage he had had for his recent birth- ~——yes—another broken nail. Shall day, and two schoo] exercise ever have nails like Lucy's? She two should not wondered. Her hands always look Sarah. [']] take soft and White, and her nails are Her task comll the Same length. | felt so down to the ashamed of my hands When we visited those Sisters today. And her's fingers my fingers are SO short, Over the pages of one ucy's long Slender fingers fasSupported on its cinated Sarah, and she remem boyish print, ered the effortless, graceful] Nglish Essay." Movement of her hands as she he headSwung the car in and out of the Caught her €avy traffic as they had driven € read her Tough town earlier that day short, not too tion for the expected chaos of the twins' retreat, "Wi]] they ever be 577 AUGUST 1966 thought, amused, but her eyes sobered as she read the next few lines. "What I like best about my Mother are her hands. They are always busy cleaning, washing, cooking, and making new dresses for my sister because she grows so fast. When I was sick she sat by my bed at night and held my hand, and I felt much better. When we fall down, she bandages our knees and she does lots more things with her hands." Sarah's eyes were misty, she could read no more. Hadn't she read somewhere "Out of the mouths of babes...""? Bob was not quite eight. She bowed her head and said silently, "Dear Heavenly Father, I thank thee that I have the hands that my dear ones need. Please forgive me for being ungrateful." Drying her eyes on the corner of her apron, Sarah climbed the stairs to fetch her dress to press, and hummed softly a song she remembered from her own Primary days, "I have two little hands."' Then her husband's photograph smiled at her from the bedside table, and she thought, maybe I won't tell Joe or anybody about reading Bob's book, I'll just try to do all I can with these hands. HER HANDS May Swenson The hands that set wisdom into books, Or capture beauty with a brush Are not so eloquent by far As a mother's fingers are. For it is wonderful to think Her hands must leave their work Of wash and cook and mend for ten, To get the ink and hunt the pen.... The hands that still the babe to sleep, That knead the bread, that turn the seam, That rest at night upon the quilt The wedding ring agleam; The hands so veined and creased with toil, Now raised in joy, now clenched in fear, Now shadowing the eyes to pray— These hands took up the pen today And wrote ''Dear Daughter'' on a page. They made a masterpiece of love, More memorial, more supreme, Than any artist's dream. 578 Ramona W. Cannon Jacqueline du Pré, cellist with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Sir Malcolm Sargent, is considered a performer of ''artistic individuality, as well as technical virtuosity." She was introduced to Carnegie Hall (New York) audiences as cellist in the Elgar concerto. Hedy West, Cartersville, Georgia, is today acclaimed in both the United States and Europe as one of the finest singers of country music. She is particularly effective in her singing of the folk music of the Georgia hill country. Her great-grandmother was a collector of the old familiar songs of the South, and Hedy finds a deep meaning in her heritage. She plays the piano, flute, and banjo, and is a student of musical composition. Sally Katzen, twenty-three, is the first woman ever to be elected editor-inchief of the University of Michigan Law ~ Review, a scholarly journal frequently cited in litigants' briefs and court decisions, which ranks among the top such publications in the United States. In this position, Miss Katzen directs a staff of eight assistants, all men, and supervises the work of twenty-four other staff members. She is a secondyear law student at the university. Mrs. Marianne Bell McConnaughey, widow of Robert K. McConnaughey, Commissioner of the United States Court of Claims, has been named to the five-member Board of Immigration Appeals. She is a lawyer and has worked for the Government since 1938. Dr. Helen Heffernan, formerly chief of the California Bureau of Elementary Education, is an international authority on teaching methods. She has visited schools and conducted education programs in twenty countries. An author of many monographs on education, she is in demand as a lecturer, and has recently addressed university faculties throughout the United States on the subject of ''Pressures on Children and Youth." Hope Sawyer Buyukmihci, daughter of Edmund J. Sawyer, bird artist and naturalist, is herself a well-known animal artist, photographer, and nature writer. She and her husband own and operate a wild-life refuge of 250 acres near Franklinville, New Jersey, U. S. A. Her children are blessed to have such a playground and such playmates. Her writing about animals shows not only excellent craftsmanship but also a rare and beautiful nature. Women in the Federal Service is the title of a United States Government bulletin which lists and describes the types of positions held by women, the salaries paid, and the opportunities for advancement. It discusses job locations, employment trends and _ standards, semiprofessional and professional occupations, as well as administrative positions in many fields, such as health and welfare, forestry and wild life services, social services, statistical work, library opportunities, and requirements for teaching positions in other countries. 579 " Behold, there a w Many are called to do the work of the Father here on earth. The opportunities are plentiful. Provision is made for the service he would have his children give as part of their mortal experience and as evidence of their love of him and their desire to follow his commandments. Response to calls to service is of great importance, S'Wiktianne C. Sitixe, Fema but far more is required than. ' ' mere acceptance. One who re- @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = <nonds as the Savior responded, @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer for the glory of the Father, is both called and chosen. Only those who fulfill their callings, 'sincerely endeavoring to do so righteously, are chosen of the Volume 53 August 1966 MM Belle S. Spafford, President Anna B. Hart lrene W. Edith s. Etiott Irene C. - Lord. (coe Lato Hazel S. Share Some of those who are called, Blanche B. Stoddar Celestia J. J Evon W, Peterson anal 'ame however, are not chosen. And Alcine M. Vung Belva B. Ashton why are they not chosen?" (D&C losie 5. 4 6 niverta H. Christensen a — 121:34) The Doctrine and Covei. Eyrin, Lila B. Walch i. Edith P. Mee Lila B. Nants lists several reasons: (1) a fe 4.. Ues R. Ve ee eeniiens much upon the things of this Mary V. Ca K. Watson ". A. —_ —_— - world (D&C 121:35). As the poet Fanny S. Kienitz Myrtle R. Olson with us.'"' The pressures of life aah i tue F Peterson lead some to begrudge the time Jennie R. Scott E Curtis i i i | gg Ao al a necessary to fulfill their callings in the Church to the fullest extent of their talents and powers. (2) Because they ''aspire to the 580 Winnietred s. Manwaring Marjorie c Weattha S. Mendenhalt Kathryn S. Gilbert Because their hearts are set so has said, ''The world is too much The Relief Society Annual General Conference The Relief Society Annual General Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1966. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 28, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle on Temple Square. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this general session of conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, September 28, from 9:30 to 11:30 in the Tabernacle, the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning, and the Stake Board Meeting Thursday afternoon, September 29, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 28, from 7 to 10 p. M. In the Relief Society Building. BACK TO THE HOUSE Christie Lund Coles You went back to the house, you say? In its rough unpaintedness now, Could you envision what it once was, What it still is, remembering-wise, (Remembering as only the heart does)? Did you think of my young feet climbing The crab apple tree by the door? See me picking lilacs by the gate? (Do their bright plumes bloom there anymore?) Did you see the colored windows in the wall, Where the world took on a rainbow hue For me and my young imaginings, (Imagining as only children do)? Oh, | would have gone backward with you, As the mind goes to the walk, to the street, To the swing, and the picket fence Where reality and memory meet. Yes, | would go backward to the bee humming, And the orchard's fragrant beauty. | would forget the city's tedious rush, And the day's unending duty. | would go backward, with hands seeking, With feet uncovered and young, running Back to the river and to the hills, And the house beneath the sky's sunning. 582 ® During the summer | had the opportunity to stay for awhile with two very dear friends, in a cottage situated on the grounds of the London Temple. It was wonderful to awaken in the mornings and look out on that beautiful building. On my last evening there, | felt saddened at the thought of leaving my friends.! Went to bed but could not sleep, and | lay there for hours listening to the pouring rain. By six in the morning it had stopped raining, and | felt an urge to be nearer the temple. So | washed and dressed hurriedly and went walking in the beautiful temple gardens. How peaceful it was, not another human being in sight, and only the rain dripping from the trees to break the stillness. After a short while, the birds started singing and flying from tree to tree. It was, as if at that moment God opened my eyes that | might see and appreciate the wonderful things he had created. | felt such joy at seeing two young rabbits playing in the grass. Two squirrels came slowly down from a tree, and as | tried to get closer to them they scurried for cover. Two horses in an adjoining field came slowly over to where | stood. They both put their heads over the fence, as if to say ''Good morning." | even felt joy at seeing a water vole, in the little stream that runs alongside the temple. The beautiful flower beds, the green leaves on the trees, the grass, all looked different. | walked in the wet grass oblivious of the fact that | had only a pair of open sandals on my feet, and that my feet were wet. For the first time in my life | saw how beautiful God's earth really is.! Stood on a little bridge over the stream. It was quiet and peaceful, and | felt close to my Father in heaven. | stood there and thanked him for the wonderful things he had shown to me. | prayed right there, that | might always be as humble as I was at that moment. | know, when the time is right that | shall go through the temple, for | have found so much beauty on the outside. The feeling of peace, happiness, comfort, and humility that | felt on that early summer morning, will, | pray, stay in my memory for many years to come. 583 wa © -~ Issued by General Board of Relief Society March 1966 This list of sacred and secular songs will augment the list that j Music Leadership in Relief Societies. These Songs are appropria services or for Singing Mothers concerts. Title Composer The First Star (m) (Violin may play melody with Piano) Come Unto Me (m) This Day Is Mine (d) Prayerful Hour (m) Give to the World, Thy Peace (m) | May Never Pass This Way Again (m) Come, Come Ye Saints (m) Andalucia (d) Teach Me, O Lord (m) Scene and Prayer (Cavallerio) (d) Recessional (m) The Silent Sea (m) When Children Pray (m) Create in Me a Clean Heart (m) He Watching Over Israel (d) Eye Hath Nat Seen (m) S printed in the book te either for Church Publisher Rubinstein-Wilson (No. 6080) Tschaikowsky-Riegger Ware-Stickles (No. 3086) Chopin-Durocher (No. 45,629) Moliter-Grant Wizell-Melsher Arr. By Florence J. Madsen (No. 2123) Leouona-Ellan (323) Hamblen Mascagni-Nilson (2-W2536) DeKoven (No. 322-35019) Neidlinger (7185) Fenner Mueller (9501) Mendelssohn (10086) Gaul-Bliss (312-20293) Lorenz, Dayton, Ohio Flammer, N. Y. Boston Music Raymond Hoffman Co., Wichita, Kansas Belwin, Inc. Long Island, New York Shawnee Press, Penn. Belwin, Inc. Ed. B. Marks Music Corp., N. Y. Chappell Witmark & Sons, N. Y. John Church Co., N. Y. G. Schirmer Shattinger G. Schirmer G. Schirmer Presser -. Bryn Mawr, Pa. 585 Prairie Lullaby (m) O My Father (m) Younger Than Springtime (m) (from South Pacific) Still As the Night (m) Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring (m) He That Keepeth Israel (m) Sheep and Lambs May Safely Graze (d) The Heavens Are Telling (m-d) The Omnipotence (d) Thanks Be to Thee (m-e) The Lord Is My Light (d) Worthy Is the Lamb That Was Slain (d) The King of Glory (m) My Heart at Thy Sweet Voice (d) Onward Christian Soldiers (m-d) The Twenty-third Psalm (d) (The Lord Is My Shepherd) My Soul Is Athirst for God (m) Dawn (d) My Heart Is a Silent Violin (m) Evening Brings Us Home (m-e) Code Gladys Rich (1006) Arr. By Luacine C. Fox Hammerstein-Rodgers Bohm-Oliver Ditson (14093) Bach-Treharne Schloesser-Parks (1233) Bach-Treharne (9529) Haydn-Read (PT 2658) Schubert (1093) Handel-Lefebure Allitsen-Samuelson Handel-Deis J. A. Parks Saint Saens (10688) Sullivan-Simeon Schubert-Saar (CM 5106) Stickles Stickles Curran (7040) Fox-Andrews (CM 5217) Moore (1788) Pioneer Music Co., 975 S. West Temple, SLC Luacine C. Fox Williamson Music Co., New York Presser Co. G. Schirmer Kjos Music Co., Park Ridge, Ill. G. Schirmer Carl Fischer, N. Y. G. Schirmer, Boston Galaxy Music Corp., N. Y. Boosey-Hawkes G. Schirmer Kjos Music Company Presser Co. Shawnee Press Carl Fischer Schroeder & Gunther G. Schirmer Carl Fischer A. J. Paris or Kjos Co. D-difficult m-medium e-easy A Place to Retire @ "The trouble with most of us is that we are brought up to believe that happiness is a goal, like a motel at the end of a vacation drive. Like a luscious dessert after a skimpy dinner. Life isn't that way at all, Sadie." "T guess you're right, Vic." Vic McGuire was driving the car. Sadie, his dear little wife, age sixty-five, was seated beside him. It has been a long drive. Vic knew he had driven too far for a man of his age, with no one to take a turn at the wheel. All day he had had a wishful thought that perhaps he could make their destination tonight. Now he realized it was asking too much of nerve and sinew to push on further. Sadie, no doubt, was as tired as he, but she never complained. It seemed to Vic that they had been traveling for six months. 586 Frances Carter Yost True, they had started last fall when the leaves turned yellow and red, and the crystal wind whirled through their little orchard. Friends had begged them to come and make their home close to them and enjoy the fruits of city living. It had been rather enjoyable. There was something always exciting going on, that was for sure. He and Sadie had had some most interesting experiences, he couldn't deny that. "What do you say we stop at the next cosy little motel that has a vacancy sign out, Sadie?" "T'm sure it would be wise. You are probably very tired. I had hoped we would get there, but there's always tomorrow." Sadie smiled up at him affectionately. "Yes, there's always tomorrow," Vic murmured. Then he started wondering about their tomorrows. He wondered how many tomorrows there really were ahead to count on. Someone had said to stop trying to carry the past around on your shoulders. The past is set clay, nothing can change it. We don't need our yesterdays. And who would want a clean slate of yesterdays, even if things did work that way? Here and now is where to start, one can't go back. Look ahead and plug along as best you can. A person retired as I am, Vic McGuire thought, no daily job to work on or worry about, has a lot of time on his hands. Yet time is what life is made of. If you don't have time you don't have anything. Vic started thinking about their friends, Martha and Harvey Slater. "You're kind of quiet, Vic. You're not getting drowsy at the wheel, are you?" "I was just thinking about Martha and Harvey, Sadie." "It was mighty nice of them to invite us to come and be neighbors, to renew our friendship and live close by, Vic." "Yes, it is mighty nice of them. Can't think of anyone I'd rather be near than the Slaters. How would you like city life, Sadie?' "Well, it's as Martha said. They can go to the best theater, and see live stage plays. They have advantages living close to the university. But, somehow, it isn't for me." "That fighting traffic isn't for me. I prefer an easy drive to Church on a Sunday morning and live close enough to walk if...." "If I am not able to go to Church." Sadie laughed. ''You're always so thoughtful. If you are A PLACE TO RETIRE going to Priesthood meeting, you walk, but if I'm going anywhere you get the car out." "A fellow needs the exercise and the fresh air, Sadie."' As they traveled along, the sky turned gold, then silver-blue. And the moon came up behind the black trees. The McGuires were driving on a lonely road now. Vic knew he should have stopped at the last city; but when a person is headed someplace, it seems sort of natural to push ahead. That is what he had done all his life... Push ahead. Ir was hard to remember now, just to meander with no real purpose. Too bad they couldn't have had a big family, like most folks. But that was something he didn't even mention. Sadie couldn't help the fact that she could never be a mother. There wasn't any use dwelling on that. He wouldn't trade Sadie for any mother that he had ever seen. Vic wondered if... Perhaps in eternity... They might be parents... Have a family? But one must not think that far ahead. '"This life is the time to prepare to meet God." Scripture was so much a part of his life that even in his daily thoughts... Scripture seemed to pop into his mind.... "Vic, I'm afraid that you are overly tired. We should have stopped back at the other town. Do you think it would be wise to pull off the road for awhile?" "Perhaps I should, Sadie, just for a moment. My eyes are tired." Vic knew it wasn't a safe idea to stop along the wayside, especially in a dark, unknown area. But 587 AUGUST 1966 there wasn't any need to worry Sadie by mentioning that. "Just a moment of shut-eye, and then we'll drive on. Ho... Hum." Vic McGuire stretched out his legs and slumped. Under the steering wheel. But thoughts still kept going through his mind. He recalled the visit they had made to their other best friends, John and Emily Kunz who had chosen to retire on the coast. They had accompanied them to Mexico City for the bull fights and swimming at Acapulco. Why, from their front-room window, they could watch the surfing. They also went deep sea fishing frequently. Vic liked that. Real sport. He smiled. John had purchased a little motor boat and taken a few sailing lessons. Vic wondered if sailing was wise at their age. He and Emily out there in a bay alone. If a wind should come up suddenly, they could be washed out to sea, and no on would miss them until it was too late. Vic turned restlessly. "You're not sleeping, Penny for your thoughts." "Oh... Huh? I was thinking about John and Emily." "It was nice of them to invite us to their lovely seaside home." "Yes, it was nice of them, Sadie. But the traffic is heavy there, too. Why, John and Emily Vic. 588 have to fight traffic to get to Church as much as Martha and Harvey back east. And when a person gets too old to drive, people in the city probably wouldn't be interested in helping elderly folks get around." "I thought of that, too, Vic." "Well, I believe I have rested my eyes. It's better if we move on and get to a town where we can put up for the night." "Y'm rather tired, Vic. A good bed will be welcome." Vic started the motor, drove the car back on the highway, and started humming a tune: "Tumte-tum-te-tum-te-tum-te."' "Oh, Vic, there's the Shady Rest Motel. It looks inviting. Shall we stop there?" "Good idea, Sadie, and there's a little cafe right next door. Hope they have a little cook that can cook half as well as my Sadie girl." "Oh, Vic, you say the sweetest things." It was eight o'clock the next morning when Vic folded himself again in the driver's seat, with Sadie at his side. "With luck, we should make it in good time today, Sadie." "T'll be glad to get there, Vic. The trip has been quite exhausting." They traveled along for sometime, with only the bridge of sound between them. Off to the. - CFT north Sadie saw a faint cloud of dust that marked the progress of sheep. "Do you suppose those sheep are looking for greener pastures, Vic?" "Could be, Sadie. Could be. Then, too, they might be headed home." The tires going round and round ate up the road before them. And as the wheels turned, Vic kept humming the song which was always on his mind. "Look, Sadie, there's a retirement village. How would you like to take a look inside and see the set up? Perhaps that is just what we might like. You know, friends right under the same roof. Church within walking distance... Village shopping center." "But...." "Let's take a look. I need to stretch my legs anyway." "In that case, Vic, we surely should look around." It was a half hour later when the McGuires came back to the car and started down the road again. "Well, what did you think of the rest home, Sadie?" "Tt was nice, Vic, but...." "They had nurses and doctors right there, if a person should need them." "Yes, they did, Vic, but...." "And the food looked mighty tasty there in the kitchen." "Yes, the food did look good. But I'm used to just looking at you over the table, Vic. All those older people. I'm sure they are kind and lovely persons, but they looked lonely, even among other folks." "Well, here we are wending our way onward. Look at the sun A PLACE TO RETIRE shining like a brand new tendollar gold piece. Did you ever see a ten-dollar gold piece, Sadie?" "Why, yes, my father had one when I was a child." "There wasn't any money like that in our family." Vic chuckled. "T stem from poor, but honest folks." They traveled along in silence for a time, sharing a lovely view here and a point of interest there. Vic found himself thanking God privately that money, or he should say, the lack of money, wasn't too much of a problem to them. He had seen to it that they had enough money put away to keep the wolf from getting past the doorman. Vic started whistling the same tune he had had on his mind for the past three days. "That's one of my _ favorite songs, Vic. I love the words, they are so meaningful. "Makes no difference where I wander, any place that I may roam. When the golden sun sinks in the west, then I think of home."' "Very pretty, Sadie. I always did say you had a good enough voice you could have gone far in opera." "Flattery will get you nowhere, Vic." But he could see that she was pleased. "Well, what do you know! We're almost there! I could shut my eyes and drive it the rest of the way." "Victor McGuire, don't you dare shut your eyes, while you're driving," Sadie chided. "Don't believe I will. Too much to see." 589 AUGUST 1966 "Oh, Vic, look at the climbing roses. They've never been so beautiful!" "Sadie, someone has watered and mowed our lawn while we've been gone. Can you beat that?" Vic McGuire turned into the driveway so automatically anyone watching would know he had done it hundreds of times before. As he did so, people came out of the houses up and down the street. Vic brought the car to a stop and unfolded himself and got out. "Mr. And Mrs. McGuire, you're back! We missed you!" "Can we help you with your luggage?" The children gathered closely around Vic, and he stooped down to listen to each one. "The wheel broke on my bicycle and Dad's to busy to help." "Bring it over in the morning, Jerry." "Look, Mr. McGuire, I painted my wagon. Do you like the color?" "Fire-engine red is my favorite color, Billy." "Mr. McGuire, I want to help you prune the apple trees again this year." "It's rather late, but better late than never, Dicky boy." "You weren't here to plant a garden, Mr. McGuire, so I planted three extra rows special for you and Mrs. McGuire." "Why, that's mighty thoughtful of you, Tom." At last Vic and Sadie were in the house. Each piece of furniture seemed like an old friend. When their things were put away, they sat down in the comfortable chairs in the living room. It was far too warm for a cosy fire in the fireplace, but still the same cosy warmth of enjoyment was there for them. "God has been good to us, Vic, guiding us home. Home is the best place to be when old age sets in. Here among good friends and neighbors.... Among familiar trees and flowers." "East or west, home's best," Vic said. Then he added: "Only the future can be to our shaping, and now we know for sure we want to shape that future right here on Elm Street." HERE... WITH A TINY DAUGHTER Mabel Jones Gabbott It is not very far from where I've been: Out in the playhouse playing with dolls, Under a pear tree reading a book Or at the neighbors throwing balls. It doesn't seem long, but it took some time To climb through digits, quotients, and sums, To run around predicates and proper nouns, And investigate land maps and why the bee hums. It is not very far, from primping and proms, From balancing toe shoes and basking in sun, From looking at moons with star-dusted eyes And falling in love with dozens—then one. It is not very far from where I've been, But now you are here, we can do it again. 590 Garden House Photograph by Don Knight SPARKS OF CREATIVITY Pearle M. Olsen Fine sparks of creativity, expressed in various ways, Exist in all —- to some degree When we stop to appraise. Not only on a paper, canvas, screen or on a stage— Or through an instrument or voice Do artists best engage. More often with a salad, or fashioning a dress— In managing a loving home Real artists find success. The neighbor who rejoices or grieves along with you Releases sparks and sometimes flames of love—— Creating, too! In all human relationships, artistic skill of some Will kindle charity of heart For many years to come! 591 Serving Apple Dumpling Favorite Dessert Asel B. Brodt @ When I was a child, serving Father's favorite dessert was a function we children enjoyed. The pioneer Grandmother had taught my mother to make apple dumpling, and it was one of the few dishes which Father thought his wife could cook as well as his mother did. In our home, it was served on all special occasions. The dumpling was prepared and put into a cloth bag, usually made from a square of cloth laid flat, then the ball of dough and spiced apples were placed in the middle. All the edges of the cloth were brought up together and tied tight with a string, leaving plenty of room for the dumpling to expand. It was cooked in deep boiling water. When done, it was taken from the hot bath and placed on a warmed platter. Mother would always put the bread knife and a large spoon on the platter beside the steaming dumpling, and set it before Father to be served up in the sauce dishes piled beside his dinner plate. But never do I remember seeing Father use either the knife or the spoon. The ritual always began with his lifting the platter, in both hands, and holding it up for all to see as he sniffed the spicy aroma of its contents. We children would all squirm with anticipation and grin back at his smiling eyes peering at us over that delicious heap. Setting the platter down, he would turn to one side, leaning his body back at an angle, and stretch his leg out straight. This made it possible to get his hand into his pants pocket and bring forth the pocketknife. Sitting up again, he would open out the long blade and wipe it back and forth on his pants leg. Ignoring the bread knife, Father would cut the string and fold back the cloth with all the ceremony of unveiling a great work of art. Then completely unmindful of mother's irritation about the pocketknife, he would cut the dumpling to serving size and scoop it into the sauce dishes, which he then handed to mother who flooded the dumpling with dip and passed each sauce dish to the upraised hands around the table. RECIPE FOR APPLE DUMPLING Slice 3 cups peeled apples into a bowl. Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon to taste, stir well, and set aside. Now make a shortcake dough. 2 c. Flour 4 tbsp. Shortening 4 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Milk 1% tsp. Salt Mix and sift dry ingredients and work in the shortening. Add the milk and mix as for biscuits. Roll out to about a half-inch thickness. Pile the apples in the middle and fold the edges up together and seal well, cutting away any 592 excess dough. Put the dumpling into a cloth bag, keeping it right side up. Leave room for expansion, and tie the bag tight. Place into deep boiling water for 45 minutes. Then take it from the water, remove the bag, and place dumpling on a platter. (If the oven happens to be hot, slip the dumpling in for a few: minutes to dry. If not, serve as it is.) A modern method of cooking this dumpling is to place it in a greased bowl or shallow can, cover tightly, and place in a pan or kettle of boiling water. Boil for 45 minutes, being sure to keep the water boiling and about half way up the side of the bowl. The dumpling can also be baked in a 375° oven for 45 minutes. SAUCE NO. 1 Melt 1 cup sugar in a heavy pan, then add 234 cups cold water. Stir until it boils and the sugar is dissolved. Add a dash of salt and 2 tbsp. Flour to 4 cup water and blend until smooth, then stir into the boiling sugar-water mixture and cook for two or three minutes. Add a walnut-sized lump of butter and flavor with lemon extract or juice. Serve hot over the apple dumpling. SAUCE NO. 2 Dissolve one-half cup sugar in two cups warm milk. Flavor with vanilla and a dash of nutmeg. Serve on apple dumpling or other puddings. AUGUST Alda L. Brown Recipes from 7 New Zealand i Ngaio A. Hughes Napier, New Zealand ICE CREAM SQUARES 4 ozs. Sugar 4 ozs. Butter 4 ozs. Flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Cocoa 2 ozs. Coconut Y% tsp. Vanilla Mix sugar and butter, add flour, baking powder, and cocoa, then add cocoie nut and vanilla. Spread this mixture into a greased square cake tin. Bake for 20 minutes in a moderate oven (350°F). Top with the following mixture: 2 tbsp. Butter 4 ozs. Coconut 2 tbsp. Milk 6 ozs. Powder sugar Put ingredients into a pot and bring to boil, then beat till thick. Spread this mixture while hot over the cooked cake, leave to set, and ice with chocolate icing made with powdered sugar and melted chocolate, or use your favorite chocolate icing recipe. Cover with chopped walnuts. Cut into squares. KHAKI CAKE 4 ozs. Butter 2 eggs 1 moderate tbsp. Cocoa 4 ozs. Flour Method: Cream butter and Sugar, add cocoa which has been mixed to a smooth paste with the boiling water. Beat well. Beat eggs and add alternately with dry ingredients. Bake 25 to 30 minutes in 6 or 7-inch greased cake tins at 400°F. When cold, fill and ice with a chocolate butter icing. 594 4 ozs. Sugar 2—3 tbsp. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tbsp. Coconut THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT MACAROON CAKE 4 ozs. Butter 6 ozs. Flour 4 ozs. Sugar pinch of salt 3 egg yolks 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Vanilla 5 ozs. Milk Method: Cream butter and sugar, add egg yolks and vanilla, beat well. Add sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Spread in a greased shallow tin and cover with the following macaroon mixture: Macaroon Mixture: 3 egg whites, 4 ozs. Sugar, and 10 ozs. Coconut. Beat egg whites until quite stiff, fold in sugar and coconut. Bake about 1 hour at 400°F. CHOCOLATE BUTTER ICING Use amounts of powdered sugar according to thickness of icing desired for cake. For each cup (8 ounces) of powdered sugar, add two level tbsp. Softened butter, and 4 level tbsp. Melted unsweetened dark chocolate or 4 level tbsp. Unsweetened cocoa. Mix to desired consistency with canned milk or fresh cream. Add 1 tsp. Vanilla flavoring to mixture for each 1 cup of sugar. Variations in amounts of butter and chocolate may be made as desired. AFGHANS 7 ozs. Butter 1 oz. Cocoa 3 ozs. Sugar 2 ozs. Cornflakes 6 ozs. Flour Method: Soften butter, add sugar and beat to a cream, add flour, cocoa, and fastly, cornflakes. Put teaspoonfuls on a greased oven tray and bake about 15 minutes at 350° F. When cold, ice with chocolate icing and put walnuts on top. VANILLA WAFER CAKE Alice Best lc. Butter - 1 c. Chopped pecans (more if 1 c. Sugar. Desired) 6 eggs _ 7 1 c. Raisins (seedless or ground) 1 12 02. Box of vanilla wafers ' Y, tsp. Alispice % c. Milk; (if desired) 1 17 oz. Pkg. Flaked coconut Cream butter, add sugar and beat well. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla wafers, which have been crushed, alternately with milk. Bake in a tube cake pan at 275° F. For 1% hours. After cake has cooked enough to hold cherries or other candied fruit you may decorate the top.: 595 Quickie Recipes and Cooking Hints Bernice Broderick We mothers who must cook for families are always on the alert for new and tasty dishes. When there's an especially good lunch served at Relief Society work meetings, naturally we want the recipes. The cooking committee in our ward often uses the recipes from The Relief Society Magazine, and they tell us in which issue the recipes can be found. They are generous with other recipes, too. ' One of our cooks gave me the recipe for '"Porcupines," explaining that it has been in her family for years. PORCUPINES (We call them Porkypines) 1 Ib. Hamburger 14 c. Rice (uncooked) onion, as desired 1 can tomato soup (grated or chopped) 34, can water garlic salt, oregano, sage I use my own home-canned tomato juice instead of the soup and water. I add garlic salt, oregano, and sage. Mix hamburger, rice, and onion to form balls the size of walnuts. Place in a skillet large enough to avoid crowding. Pour soup and water over the balls, and cook over medium heat for 45-60 minutes, or until rice is tender. Occasionally turn the meat balls carefully, during the cooking, so the meat will not scorch. Be prepared to double or triple the recipe, for your family will love these Porcupines. I improvised a dish one time from sheer necessity. I was out of bread and had very little hamburger. I reasoned that I would have to do something with the meat to stretch it, and provide some kind of bread to go with it. Result: Burger and Dumplings. BURGER AND DUMPLINGS Use the same recipe as for Porcupines, but omit the rice, and add extra moisture. Brown hamburger, add onions, seasonings, and liquid. Simmer for a few minutes, then drop in dumplings from your favorite recipe. Steam about 10 minutes. Delicious! For an extra-special taste treat, try adding oregano and Parmesan cheese to the dumplings. Superb! If your family is onion-shy, try grating the onion, but be careful with it. It seems to go farther that way. 596 QUICKIE RECIPES AND COOKING HINTS Here's a recipe to adapt to your own needs. SKILLET DINNER Peel enough potatoes for your family, and cut into cubes. Add chopped onion, salt, and other seasonings to taste, and enough water to half-way cover. Steam until potatoes are tender. Add cubed bologna, ham, or canned lunch meat, and enough canned milk to make the dish creamy. Allow to stand for several minutes before serving. Grated cheese enhances the flavor and nutrition. Or, fry some bacon and add potatoes and corn for a delicious meal in a skillet. TRICKS WITH INSTANT PUDDINGS Try serving instant pudding in an ice-cream cone for a children's surprise. Banana flavor is especially good with sliced bananas. Sprinkle with nuts, cake candies, coconut, or top with a cherry. If you have a blender, use it to good advantage. Prepare your instant pudding according to directions, then freeze in your ice tray. When ready to use, spoon the frozen pudding into your blender. Add sugar, flavoring, a little milk (whole, canned, or skim, depending on how calorie-conscious you are) and blend to desired consistency. USING YOUR BLENDER Speaking of blenders, don't let yours sit idle, especially if you have a freezer, too. I prepare powdered milk as for drinking, then freeze several trays. The frozen milk is then ready for milk shakes at a moment's notice. Half a tray will make a blenderful. Add about 4 c. Sugar, 4% c. Fluid milk, bananas, frozen peaches, strawberries, raspberries, cantaloupe, and flavoring. Vanilla is good, but for something special, try orange or some other fruit flavor. Canned fruits can be used, too. Use the same recipe, substituting canned fruits for the frozen fruits. FREEZING FRESH FRUITS If you are in an area where fresh fruits are easily available, freeze your own fruits. Add sugar as desired to crushed strawberries, peaches, apricots, raspberries, etc., and freeze in plastic bags or milk cartons. Frozen peaches will turn brown when thawing, so use them immediately. Did you know that you can freeze rhubarb with no preparation but cutting it in pieces? When ready to use, prepare as for fresh rhubarb. SUGGESTIONS FOR MAKING PRESERVES When I make preserves, I cook plums, apricots, peaches, in a small amount of water (after pitting), and cook until tender. I pour off all the juice I can, then mash the fruit with a potato masher. Usually it is necessary to pour off the juice again. Then I continue with the jam in the usual manner, but I seldom use pectin because the fruit is so free from juice. I don't use as much sugar as the recipe calls for, which gives the jam more of a fresh fruit flavor. But I don't waste the juice. Oh, no! I sweeten it and bottle it for use in fruit punch. For extra flavor and to help it set, add flavored gelatin to jam. USE OF THE HOME FREEZER Don't let your freezer sit idle during the canning season. Many kinds of vegetables can be frozen very well. I have successfully frozen asparagus, beet greens, chard, beets, corn-on-the-cob, and corn cut off the cob, as well as other foods. During the hot weather, I freeze my bread to keep it fresh. Also, other baked goods freeze well and are like freshly baked products when they are thawed. Freezing leftovers is a good economy procedure, and will provide meals when you don't have time to cook. 597 Shirley Thulin st re - eo pees teh rie Serres) geese ane. Hest; ies; Pent — 20h) etal ere eres Same -)* ~ @ Here's a new recipe! Not a food recipe, but one for two smart luncheon cloths with napkins to match, that are almost pretty enough to eat. They are so fresh looking and eye pleasing, you will want to invite your neighbors in for an impromptu luncheon to show them off. The first one has realistic fruit appliqued in each corner of a gaily checked cloth. The material needed is just 114 yards of any good cotton check, 36 inches wide. Make the cloth 36 inches square and make four napkins from the remaining half yard. If you don't have bits of plain colored material from which to cut the fruit, get a fourth yard of each of the following: yellow for the pears, red for the cherries, green for the leaves, and lavender for the grapes. Cut your patterns from paper first. Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4, will give you the general shape to enlarge. When tracing them on your material, be sure to leave a small margin all around each piece to turn under. It is best to press the edges under and baste them on in place before stitching to the cloth. If you have a zigzag machine, you can applique the brightly colored fruit on in a jiffy. Be sure to baste in place and use matching thread. Then just zigzag all around each piece. If you have the stitches close together, it will never fray no matter how much washing it undergoes. You may want to make big red apples or oranges in place of the fruit suggested. Now, to finish, pull the threads to make a fringe about an inch wide on all four edges of the napkins and cloth. Run a machine stitch close to the edge to insure against further unraveling. 598 | AUGUST 1966 pull another thread. This ensures your cutting evenly. Fringe the cloth and napkins all around and machine stitch with matching thread close to the fringe so threads will not pull out. For running stitches, take three strands of brightly-colored embroidery thread and without breaking and knotting the end, make a running stitch by hand in a design all around the cloth about 6 inches from the edge. (fig.5) You can be as fancy or as plain with the design as you wish. Keep pulling the thread through so that there is one continuous thread all around with only one starting or stopping place. Do not use yarn, because it will shrink and pull or may fade when the cloth is laundered. Run another color of thread near the first one, and then a third and fourth one if desired. All stitching could be the same color, or all different, as you want. Make the napkins to match. (figure 5) Running stitches at edge of cloth GARDENER'S NOTE Enid F. Woolley Judbury, Huon, Tasmania Australia Love is a precious plant which needs the sunshine of humor to keep it constantly in bloom. It also needs the weeds of selfishness to be continually cleared from its roots, lest the gentle watering of forgiveness cannot moisten the soil sufficiently to permit new shoots to burst through. Regularly mix and apply equal measures of the fertilizers of trust and loyalty each time you spray the leaves with tolerance. This treatment, along with the careful pruning of any branches of self-pity, will ensure lifelong joy in the growth of your plants and endless delight in the beauty of their blooms and the perfume they send forth. 600 What a Beautiful Day « G. Bond ~~. R _ ~*~ ~- — 5 ew" ©. Ae ee eee w It was the first time since my illness I felt I could walk the one block from our home to the chapel. As I returned home from Relief Society several of the sisters offered me a ride, but I kindly refused. I just wanted to take in the beauty of the day and reflect on the soulstirring lessons and testimonies we had just heard. The sky was blue, with not one cloud, and the air was balmy. I stopped to watch three jets as they maneuvered high above the earth. The white streams made a lacy pattern against the azure sky. It made me think of ruffled lace. How thankful I was that I had eyes to take in all this beauty, and ears to hear the songs of the birds. The very air breathed "Wake up and live." There is so much beauty all around us, yet we are usually in too much haste really to enjoy the things we take for granted. How grateful I am to be alive and able to enjoy these wonderful things around me. As I continued on my way I thought of the things that could give me happiness and didn't cost much except a little effort. Some women need a new hat to make them happy, but I need only to have the windows of my home washed so I can really see the beauty outside and inside, too. Yes, inside. Everything looks brighter inside and outside when our windows are clean. This suggests to me that we should also keep the windows of our souls washed clean so we can truly see the beauties of the gospel. If these windows are clean, the light of the gospel can shine through from the outside in, as well as from the inside out, and fill our lives with all its radiance., Let us take a few minutes each day to enjoy the beauty around us, keeping our windows bright and shining to appreciate and magnify the beauties of the gospel and of life. Let us thank our Father in heaven for the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ and the opportunities it gives us for development and service. 601 he AUGUST 1966 MARJORIE B. SILVER — MAKER OF FRUIT CAKES Marjorie Blake Silver, Newark, California, is an expert at making — fruit cakes. It all began thirteen years ago, when the Centerville Ward was in need of funds for building a chapel. Sister Silver was given five dollars ''to develop her talents." Thus began a baking career. Sister Silver made the cakes from an old recipe brought from Scotland, her native country. From the sale of the first cakes she received several hundred dollars for the chapel building fund. Then the Centerville ward was divided, and in the new ward, Sister Silver repeated her previously successful project. In October she again began making fruit cakes, and before Christmas she had used over 150 pounds each of sugar and flour, 100 pounds of walnuts, seventy-five pounds of margerine, and large amounts of raisins, glazed fruits, and spices. She made 1,098 fruit cakes in 1965, and donated $1,000 to the building fund for the Newark Chapel. Many of her cakes were sent to faraway places, including Florida, France, and Germany. This project occupied the mornings of her busy days. Four afternoons of each week she spent in the Oakland Temple. 602 Surface Cleaning Dorothy C. Little Never tackle any project like Sewing or caiining, until] the house has been surface-cleaned. If toys and Dapers are Picked up and the rugs are Straight, gs! Very woman needs a "miscellaneous drawer," and the bigger the better! Whether you have a harvest crew trooping in for dinner, or you just saw Aunt will usually be able to cram it shut before anyb sort things out later! Bout that harvest crew again—if you ever find yourself at the Stroke of twelve with no dinner ready, just hurry and set the table, including the milk and bread. No one will Complain as they wait in the living room and you will have about fifteen minutes in which to get something together. (Don't try this n! Table is not Set, someone is likely to ask if he has time to grease the tractor before he eats. Believe me, it's a good idea to set the table as soon as the Potatoes are Peeled! 603 of Love Chapter 2 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle asking her to fly home at once due to an emergency in the family. Her friend Betz Condon goes with her. While traveling, they meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. @ The heat was stifling and heavy, even at five o'clock in the morning, as they edged through the crowd at the airport on Fiji. "Oh, look at my feet!" Betz moaned. "They are swollen twice the size of my shoes." "You can expect that,' Miss Bridges explained. 'We have dropped down to a low altitude. But it is extra warm here for September. This is the beginning of our springtime." "But Julie's feet aren't swollen,' Betz said. 'Neither are yours. Why mine?" 604 TellMe "© = 2 Rosa Lee Lloyd "Sometimes mine swell," Miss Bridges told her. "There's no rule. Maybe we can buy some straw sandals somewhere." "T'll need a size twelve!" Betz laughed. "Look, the big bus is crowded." "There's an old jeep with a 'for hire' sign on it,' Julie pointed out. "The driver looks real elegant, with his white trousers and red sash." "Would you rather ride a bicycle?" Julie suggested, pointing to a rack of them nearby. "Let's do it!" Betz agreed. Then they both looked at Miss Bridges. "T'll take my chances in the old jeep,' she said, smiling. "'We'll go ahead up the trail. Follow closely so you won't get lost. I want you to meet someone I know at a fruit stand." The trail was a dirt road leading upward through lush tropical plants six feet high on either side. The sun beat down mercilessly on their heads. Flies and insects buzzed around them. Julie pedaled in a slow, steady rhythm, but Betz raced off ahead of her. When Julie finally caught up with her she had thrown herself on the side of the path in an exhausted heap. "Oh, Julie!" she wailed. "I can't go on. I'll wait here for you." "Not here!" Julie said. ""You're in an ant bed." She pulled her up and brushed her off, but she was already burning with bites. "Let's go back to the plane," Betz demanded. "This heat is ghastly." "Would you like a nice cool drink of pineapple juice?" Julie asked, gently. "Sure, I would. You get it for me, Julie. You haven't been in an ant bed." "Righto," Julie agreed. "You look like a painted clown. But now, you look at me. My head is ready to pop. My eyes hurt with the glare, but I know we've got to go on if we get that pineapple juice. So—let's get on with it." "I can't make it up there, Julie," Betz said. Julie gave her a push. Little glints were in her eyes. "You can make it," she said. "Tf you're going around the world you better start right now to prove you can take it." Betz bit her lip. "I didn't know you could be so—so utterly...." "So utterly what?" Julie laughed. 'You know I love you, Betz, but quit acting like a baby. TELL ME OF LOVE We're just wasting time. Maybe they'll have some eucalyptus oil for those bites." Reluctantly, Betz got on her bicycle again. Five minutes later they saw the old jeep parked beside a thatched hut. There was a wide counter holding huge containers of pineapple juice. Dozens of people were quenching their thirst with the luscious drink. Miss Bridges was talking to a sweet-faced woman her own age and an older man, very tall, with a sandy-colored beard. "Well, hello!" Miss Bridges greeted them. The tall man handed them gay mugs of the fruit juice. "Drink well, girls," he said with a true Australian accent. Julie was sure she had seen him somewhere before. "This is my friend, Lucile Clark," Miss Bridges explained, "and her uncle, Dan Fargo." "They call me Big Dan," he said with a grin that showed his fine white teeth. "That is what you both shall call me." 'He is a real character," Betz whispered back. "'T'll bet he knew Captain Kid and Long John Silver." "Did you ever taste such juice?" Miss Bridges asked them. "Umm!" Betz smacked her lips. "Now, if I can buy some eucalyptus oil I'll be okay. Look at these bites!" "You are a sight." "We might have a drop or two left," Big Dan said. 'We've nearly hit the bottom of the barrel I sent over from Australia. Those are just little ant bites. They come and go like ripples on the sea. Shall we tip the barrel?" 605 AUGUST 1966 Big Dan said to Lucile as they disappeared inside the hut. Miss Bridges said quickly: "I wanted you to meet these wonderful people. I didn't know Big Dan was here so this is a privilege. He is always in demand somewhere as he is an expert on water conditions in Australia. He is a self-taught man, but his opinions and experience are sought after by top engineers. He has just had a message to return to Australia, so he will be on the plane with us." "Then he can ride my bicycle back down the hill," Betz said. "T']l go in the jeep with you." "Shall we wait and see?" Miss Bridges asked. "We can trust Big Dan." "J would like to know your friends better," Julie said, hoping Miss Bridges would overlook Betz's suggestion. "Big Dan has been a father to Lucile and her three sons," Miss Bridges went on. "Her husband was killed in a willie-willie out in Camarvon twenty years ago. Big Dan brought them here to Fiji. He owned this property and the boys worked hard with the pineapples. Lucile took care of this fruit stand. Now the boys are in the University at Sydney. As soon as they are graduated and earning their own living, Lucile will return home. She is very proud of her three sons." "Three sons!" Julie repeated. "Flow wonderful." "Yes, isn't it?" Miss Bridges answered with a lonesomeness in her voice. "It wasn't easy for any of them way out here. I always stop every trip so I can keep in touch. Lucile and I went to school together in Perth." 606 "I'm sure she's glad to see you," Betz said. "You've traveled all over the world and can keep her up-to-date." "Lucile gives me more than I give her," Miss Bridges answered quietly. "True, I have been all over the world, but the world has come to Lucile Clark. Her life has been one of fulfillment in spite of hardship. Sometimes -. - I almost envy Lucile." Big Dan came out of the hut with a battered old suitcase and his guitar slung over his shoulder. Lucile hurried to serve the new customers. Big Dan handed Betz Betz dabbed the oil on the swollen bites. "Oh, it really does help," she breathed gratefully. Big Dan put his suitcase and guitar in the back of the jeep and came back to the stand. He wore a colored plaid shirt and a big hat almost like an American cowboy. "Pll ride one bicycle and wheel the other," he said. "The girls can ride back with you, Carolyn. There's only twenty minutes till take-off." Miss Bridges looked at Betz with a significant smile. "He is a real gentleman," she murmured. Betz smiled, too. She's really a good sport, Julie thought. Then Betz said, "Why don't we call you Carolyn, Miss Bridges? Let's not be so stuffy." Julie caught her breath. Lucile held a glass of juice in mid-air as she looked at Carolyn Bridges who drew herself up straight and tall and every inch the hospital matron, for a long, silent moment. Big Dan lifted one eyebrow a half inch above the other one, waiting for Carolyn's answer. AT last a smile edged her lips, and she put her hand on Betz's shoulders. "Quite right!" she said. "Let's not be stuffy. You may call me Carolyn from now on." Julie relaxed. The words "'quite right" instead of "righto" kept Carolyn up on a pedestal with Grandfather and Aunt Isabelle. "Time to go!" Big Dan called out. He patted Lucile and pinched her cheek. "Take it easy," he said. "I'll be back when the job is finished." Then he was off down the hill with the bicycles. "Goodbye Fiji Islands," Betz sang out as they crowded into the jeep. "The paradise of the Pacific." Carolyn laughed. ''They say that about every island we pass. But each one is a little paradise. Goodbye, Lucile," she waved again. "See you next trip." Breakfast was served ten minutes after they took off from Fiji. Julie was hungry and, in spite of her anxiety, she enjoyed a thick TELL ME OF LOVE slice of ham, sweet rolls, milk, and a banana. They were flying high now, far above great cotton-puff clouds. Julie took Ron's last letter from her purse and read it dreamily. Grandfather considered one letter a month enough. This letter was dated August seventeenth, a month ago. Julie, My Love: The first year at the University is almost over. I am glad that Grandfather will be pleased when he sees my number in the paper. Being separated from you is beyond measure in loneliness and yearning. Last week end I went up north into the bush with a group of hydraulic engineers from school. As you know, it has always been my dream to help make this wilderness green and productive, so people like our own parents can live in comfort. The ride up the coast in Bob Stouffer's old car was very cold and miserable. We nearly froze at night, although we wore our socks and kept a fire burning. As you know, Western Australia has only two seasons, winter and summer. Our winter came in April, and now it is August, and spring is just breaking through without much success. The scenery was a lonely stretch, mile after mile. I was depressed and lonely and resentful because we are forced to be separated. I can quit school, I thought, and go to the United States where Julie is. I was tired of the bush without you there. And then, just before we reached Dongarra, and about ten miles from Grandfather's station, we unexpectedly came upon fields of flowers— pink and blue and yellow. I have never seen such gorgeous color. It was like driving through the rainbow. Bob and I knew they were the "Kverlastings."' The petals were crisp and transparent. It was a 607 AUGUST 1966 feast of beauty. I wished you were there with me. I decided to ride the ten miles to our station. Anyway, I wanted to see my kelpie, Casey Jones. I love that old sheep dog and it's always a big day for him when T can get up there. But that's ahead of my story. As I stood there in that field of flowers, T decided again that I would give up school and hit out for the United States. No one can keep me from Julie, I thought. Then, as though someone touched my shoulder, I felt the presence of Grannie, and something she had said to me during her last illness came back to me. What courage she had, Julie. What faith in spite of her pain. I was eighteen again. I had come from the tennis tournament dragging my feet because I had lost. As usual, I went upstairs to say goodnight to Grannie and to tell her about the game. "I know," she said. "Tt is hard to lose when you have worked so hard to win; but the work and the striving are never lost. That effort is always yours, and takes you one step upward on the stairway of life. Learn this, my boy, and remember it always—to live is to know both bitter and sweet. No one, rich or poor, escapes that. The wise ones cherish the sweet, and the bitter fades away." "Grannie,"' I asked her, "are you reminding me to count my blessings?" "T am, indeed,' she smiled back. So, right there, in that field of flowers, I thanked our Heavenly Father for beauty and life. I filled my heart with gratitude for all the years of our childhood together with the Ridgehaven family. I asked him for courage and intelligence to carry out Grandfather's demands. Peace came to me, Julie, and strength to carry on toward completing my course at the University. So we must wait patiently for that golden day when we will be to- 606 gether again. Always remember that my love for you is a field of everlasting flowers, brightening the long, lonely road. Love always, Ron P. S. Yes, I saw Casey Jones and had a beaut of a time to make him stay on the ranch. Next month we are going further inland to inspect some sites for possible development of underground water. It should be interesting and instructive. WJULIE folded the letter and put it back in her purse. Grannie was right. You had to cherish the sweet in this world. Big Dan, seated beside Julie, looked down at her and said, "The sea looks as vast and lonely as the Australian bush." "Yes," Julie said, "I remember." "You have lived in the bush country?" he asked. "T lived out there until I was nine years old," Julie told him. "My mother taught me to sing and play the banjo. She said every girl should carry her own music with her." Julie pointed to the banjo. "The man I am going to marry plays the guitar, so we will have our own music. He is out in Perth learning to be an hydraulic engineer. Someday we will live in the bush, because Ron's work will be there." The smile faded from Big Dan's lips. A deep frown puckered his brows together. "Ron? The boy's name is Ron?" he questioned. "Why, yes!" Julie beamed. "Do you know him? His name is Ron McLaren." Big Dan looked at Carolyn. Their eyes caught and held, and a message passed between them. Semtretgas FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Activities Edmonton Stake (Alberta, Canada) Singing Mothers Present Concert April 29, 1966 Marie C. Burnham, President, Edmonton Stake Relief Society, reports: "April 29th was a thrilling evening for 130 Singing Mothers of Edmonton Stake, as they presented 'Magic of Melody.' Under the direction of Beulah Doney, chorister, accompanied by June Holden, organist, the Singing Mothers sang sacred and secular music to an audience of 900 people. Six of the wards each sang one number, and the combined chorus delighted all with five selections. Ilean Begieneman was the narrator for the evening. Three guest artists: Anne Harris (soprano), Heather Sills (flutist), and Donna Lowry (organist) added variety and enjoyment to the recital. This was the first Singing Mothers recital attempted in Edmonton Stake, and was very successful. It was an effective missionary tool for Relief Society, as well as stimulating the interest of many nonmembers in attendance." San Fernando Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 18, 1966 Ina Easton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society, reports: "In honor of the anniversary of Relief Society, and to share in the missionary effort that is being accelerated in this stake, approximately eighty-five Relief Society sisters from the eleven wards presented a concert under the able direction of Alta Hansen, chorister, and Hazel Holmes, organist. "Lucille Pack, Education Counselor, was in charge of the program, which inckuded an original narration written by Tamara Burnham and Delilah Outram, portraying the story of the organization of Relief Society and its place in the life of a Latter-day Saint mother. Ali sisters who participated felt a sense of achievement and joy from this experience, and were not only thrilled with being able to share it with their families and friends in the Church, but with the added opportunity for teaching the gospel to nonmember friends who were in attendance." Mount Jordan Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention April 14, 1966 Front row, left to right: Wilmirth Simmons; Selma Hyde and Ellen Allgood (twins); Sadie McGuire;. Ethel Kemp; Lovina Harrison. Back row, standing, left to right: Matilda Smith; Ruth Davidson; Emily Blair; Annie Smith; Louise Riska; Mina S. Mickelsen; Melissa Smith. LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: "Eaeh of the departments of Relief Society, including the nursery, was featured at the convention. Following a program, for which the stake Singing Mothers furnished the music, a fashion show was held. The sisters who had taken basic sewing courses in each of the wards modeled the dresses they had made. "Special recognition was accorded the visiting teachers. Honored guests were the sisters who were eighty years of age, or older, or who had given forty-five years or more of service in visiting teaching. The number of years of visiting teaching of the eighteen sisters in this group totals over seven hundred years. Many of the sisters are still serving." 610 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50.: AUGUST 1966 Spanish-American Mission, Llano Branch (Pefiasco, New Mexico) Bazaar and Luncheon, March 17, 1966 Elizabeth D. Matthews, Supervisor, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society, reports: '"'To commemorate the birthday of Relief Society, the sisters of the Llano Branch held a bazaar and enchilada luncheon. They sold hand-embroidered dish towels, table covers, aprons, pillow cases, and hat-shaped pincushions. Many people came from far away to attend the celebration, even from as far away as Taos. The delicious enchilada luncheon was pleasing to everyone. English, and now they will have the benefits of this wonderful Magazine Scottsdale Stake (Arizona) Presents Awards in Poetry Writing Contest March 17, 1966 Juab Stake (Utah) Presents Fashion Show for Anniversary Observance March 16, 1966 Blanche B. Brough, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, reports: "A spring fashion show and Relief Society anniversary was held at the stake center, Nephi, Utah. The fashion show was under the direction of Counselor Jean D. Westring and work meeting leader Georgia P. Carter. The theme was 'Home Sewing Can Be Easy, Fun, and Profitable.' Each ward held sewing classes under the direction of the work leaders. "There were 158 sisters who sewed articles for themselves and their children. Suits, coats, best dresses, house dresses, formal evening dresses, and nightwear were modeled, and a number of articles were attractively displayed furnished appropriate music. Prizes were presented to the wards having the greatest percentage of members participating, with each ward being recognized for its efforts. "Light refreshments were served to over 400 in attendance. There was much enthusiasm created throughout the stake, and many learned new skills and 612 NOTES FROM THe _ AUGUST 1966 Torrance Stake (California), Rolling Hills Ward Relief Society Conducts Anniversary Essay Contest, March 29, 1966 Dorothy S. Keith, Education Counselor, is shown presenting a Relief Society bracelet to Joyce G. Potter, Secretary-Treasurer, who won the essay contest. Mary Jane Rahlf, President, Torrance Stake Relief Society, reports: "The contest was held so that the sisters could express and share their feeling about Relief Society in conjunction with the 124th birthday of the Society. The subject was 'What Relief Society Means to Me,' and many sisters participated. Excerpts from all the essays were read, after which the winning essay was read in full, and the award made to Mrs. Potter. Stake board members Mary Jane Rahlf, President; Donna Powers, Education Counselor; and Peggy Puffer, literature class leader, served as judges for the essays. Mary A. Huyck, President, Rolling Hills Ward Relief Society, conducted the meeting, at which Nadine Newland, Work Counselor, gave a very interesting talk on the Relief Society emblem, and the history of the sego lily. "A skit was presented, featuring Sister Just Moved In, Sister Just Too Tired, Sister Much Too Busy, Sister Full of Joy, and Sister Happy Life. The Rolling Hills Singing Mothers presented 'Why a Singing Mother Sings,' and 'I Whistle a Happy Tune.' A delicious luncheon was served at tables decorated in Relief Society colors. The occasion was one of our most wonderful events. The message and spirit of Relief Society reached many, many sisters this day." East St. George Stake (Utah), Fifth Ward Relief Society Presents Pioneer Theme Birthday Party, March 15, 1966 Left to right, former presidents: Fern Musser; Leila Atkin; Emma McArthur; Wanda Snow; Mae Nielson; Roma Esplin; Mildred Heaton; Annette Foremaster; Leila Sullivan; Virginia Knell, now serving as ward Relief Society president. Seated in front, in pioneer costumes: Dianne Jennings, chorister (left); and Arline Huber. Mildred Heaton, President, East St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: "Pictured are nine of the ten past presidents of the Fifth Ward Relief Society. All of them were honored and a special tribute was paid to each one. Corrine Bowler, the other former president, could not attend the social or be in the picture. Sister Atkin and Sister Esplin have served, also, as stake Relief Society presidents, and Sister Heaton is now the stake president. A pioneer theme was carried out for the social both in refreshments and in table decorations. Pioneer relics and furniture were displayed." South Bear River Stake (Utah) Three Generations of Relief Society Presidents Carry on the Tradition of Devotion to Relief Society Gene to right: Joan Francom Smith; Angie Cottle Francom; Zina Garner ottle. Ruth J. Hunsaker, President, South Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: "A young Relief Society president is following in the footsteps of her mother and grandmother in that activity. All three have been members of the Elwood Ward in South Bear River Stake. The youngest president is Joan Francom Smith, President of Tacoma Sixth Ward Relief Society, Tacoma, Washington, who served 1964-65. Her mother Angie Cottle Francom is presently serving as president of Elwood Ward Relief Society. The grandmother Zina Garner Cottle was president of Hooper First Ward Relief Society in Lakeview Stake, Utah, from 1952-1955." 614 NOTES FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1966 North Davis Stake (Utah), Sunset Ward Holds Annual Birthday Party March 17, 1966 Sixth and seventh from the left in the front row: Nora B. Stephens, President, Sunset Ward Relief Society; and Secretary-Treasurer Ann Marie Hirschi; Education Counselor Kathryn Shelton stands at the right in the back row; Work Counselor Patricia Perkins stands at the left in the back row. Lillian W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports: 'These four sisters (the officers) are mothers of nineteen children, ranging in age from five weeks to twelve years. The young mothers of this ward certainly have the Relief Society spirit, as they gather each Wednesday morning at ten A. M., to receive the spiritual guidance which comes from Relief Society meetings. In addition to the thirty-seven sisters and twenty-six children in the picture, there were twenty-seven pre-school children present in the nursery when this picture was taken. The large attendance of babies and children at a Relief Society meeting is typical of many of the wards in North Davis Stake, | which have a majority membership of young families. "At the annual Relief Society birthday party, Sylvia Smith, fourth from the right in the front row, was presented a corsage and honored with a program of music and narration depicting her life and service in Relief Society. Sister Smith was a counselor in the presidency of the first Relief Society in Sunset Ward, then became the second president, and was again president at a later date, having a total of fourteen years service as Relief Society president. She has been a visiting teacher for thirty years, and is still active in this calling. She is a faithful member and an inspiration to all. "The sister in the front row in the wheel chair has five boys and a little girl. She has taught the social science lessons for several years, and has taught the theology lessons for the past two years. Her cheerfulness, faith, and testimony are an inspiration to all the members." 616 SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy w. Doxey Lesson 74 — Pre-Earth Life (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 93:21-23, 27-29, 33-34.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman receives added strength for daily living from enlightenment on the purpose of earth life. FAITH IN CHRIST data of the survey revealed that In the Christian world many most Americans regarded religion theologians teach that Jesus 4° "a private, painless pathway Christ was not literally the Son to heaven"; that about three of God, that he was only mortal quarters of them did not consider not divine, that his excellence God as being related to their was only in his teachings. This daily living: that a similar numfalse teaching regarding Jesus ber did not associate their ideas seems to be increasing in a of religion with their attitudes Christian world committed by toward right and wrong. This the Bible to the acceptance of survey also disclosed that stuJesus as the literal Son of God. Dents in higher education receive (John 3:16, 18; Matt. 28: 16-18.) "adult" training in secular fields In a comprehensive survey but "snfant" education in reliconducted a few years ago, it was gion. Knowledged belief in God by over Class Discussion: ninety-six per cent of the people In a world without a true in the United States, there was knowledge of Jesus Christ and of little real vitality 17 their belief. His divinity, what does the con" Three leading theologians of tribution of the Doctrine and the Jewish, Protestant, and Covenants regarding this knowlCatholic faiths who analyzed the edge mean to you? 617 AUGUST 1966 Suggestion: Have a dialogue in which one sister (could be a convert) tells what the Christian world, in general, teaches about the Godhead, and a second sister representing the Church tells of our true knowledge of the Godhead. In the Lord's Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, purposes for the restoration of the true Church and gospel are given. An important reason for the restoration of the gospel is that faith shall increase in the hearts of men. (D&C 1:21.) Fundamentally, this is to be accomplished by an awakening of the spirit within man to recognize the truth as taught in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Without the true knowledge of the Godhead, consisting of the Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, it is impossible to come to the faith that saves mankind. (John 17:3; I Cor. 2:14.) Class Discussion: How does the true knowledge of the members of the Godhead and of other restored teachings kindle faith in you as a Latterday Saint? Elder Orson F. Whitney eloquently expresses an answer to this question, using Latter-day Saint pioneers as an example: There is no more eloquent preaching than when men and women will forsake their native land, their homes, their parents, their children, their material possessions—every earthly thing, and cross the stormy ocean, the heated plains, the frosty mountains, many of them laying down their lives, to be buried in lonely graves by the wayside; pulling hand carts, wading rivers, crossing deserts, climbing mountains, and settling in a barren waste—all for what. Was 618 it for gold and silver, houses and land, flocks and herds, and the betterment of their temporal condition? Was it for the honors of men and the applause of the world that they did these things? No, it was because they loved God and wanted to build His kingdom. They had heard the voice of the Shepherd; they were His sheep, and a stranger they would not follow. [John 10:1-5]... There is no more eloquent preaching of the gospel than is found in their toils and privations, in their struggles and achievements (Conference Report, April 1915, page 101). Class Discussion: How do faith and love for Christ encourage one to be righteous? If you are a convert, relate the power that faith in Christ had on your conversion. If you were born under the covenant, relate how faith in Christ has helped you overcome temptations contrary to Church principles. (It might be the Word of Wisdom, speaking evil of others, etc.) In last month's lesson we learned several reasons why we should worship Jesus Christ as the Son of God. What further knowledge is available to you in the modern revelations to increase faith in Christ and to give meaning to the earth-life? JESUS THE FIRSTBORN Jesus Christ is proclaimed by the prophets, ancient and modern, as the literal Son of God in the spirit and, also, in the flesh. Jesus is the Firstborn of all the spirit sons and daughters of God. And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the Firstborn (D&C 93:21; see also Col. 1:15). Because he was the Firstborn, we know the Savior as our Elder Brother. The First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles, on June 30, 1916, expressed a word of caution to the members of the Church concerning the status of the Redeemer and our relationship to him as our Brother. It is as follows: There is no impropriety, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind. That He is by spiritual birth Brother to the rest of us is indicated in Hebrews: "Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliations for the sins of the people." (Hebrews 2:17.) Let it not be forgotten, however, that He is essentially greater than any and all others, by reason (1) of His seniority as the oldest or firstborn; (2) of His unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glorified, Father; (3) of His selection and foreordination as the one and only Redeemer and Savior of the race; and (4) of His transcendent sinlessness (Talmage, James E.: The Articles of Faith, pages 472-473). In order that none might be mistaken in his understanding of the relationship of Jesus to us mortals, The First Presidency continued: Jesus Christ is not the Father of the spirits who have taken or yet shall take bodies upon this earth, for He is one of them. He is The Son, as they are sons or daughters of Elohim ([bid., p. 473). The important truth is given that only through Jesus Christ may one be a partaker of the glories of the eternities. The expression "through Jesus Christ" is significant in its meaning, for to understand this, is the key to eternal life. One must be begotten through him. (D&C 93:22.) To LESSON DEPARTMENT be born of Christ, is this sense of begetting which is to accept him literally as one's Savior and follow him devotedly. (Mosiah 27: 23-27.) This acceptance must be total, unqualified, as stated in the following by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.: Jesus is the Messiah, he is the Savior of the world. Through his atoning blood, his sufferings, his death and his resurrection, we may become perfect beings, and in no other way and by no other means. That is the great truth which permeates everything which God has said to his children on this earth. Without that we would be as dead bodies and dead spirits, shut off from true salvation, from exaltation, from eternal progression, the great new truth of modern revelation. We must never forget that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world. There is no escape from this... Turn, twist, philosophize, mass sophistries as we will, this truth remains (Conference Report, April 1934, page 93). YE WERE IN THE BEGINNING In Section 93, there are two verses that reveal a doctrine which has tremendous meaning for Latter-day Saints. They are: Ye were also in the beginning with the Father.... Man was also in the beginning with God (Verses 23, 29). In this message about man, an entire vista of information is revealed. The written information about man's pre-earth life is found in the Pearl of Great Price. (Abraham 3:22-23; Moses 3:5.) Upon the basis of the modern scriptures, the prophets of this dispensation have provided sufficient information about preearth life to clarify its principles and implications for the earthlife. 619 AUGUST 1966 Basic to an understanding of the plan of Salvation js man's relationship to God. Concerning man, we learn that he is a writer of Hebrews speaks of the (Hebrews 19. Class Discussion: Why is Fatherhood of God you? (1) The highest measure of salvation, exaltation or godhood, the concern for the well-being of the child by earthly parents is Many times Magnified with our eavenly Father; meaning jg attached to prayer and the assurance answered; (4) knowing the Father's plan and the meaning of life's experiences, give us security, MAN'S CREATION great Progenitor, "the _Was, like Christ, q preod 4 man, and go "living soul." The doctrine of the preexistence, — revealed go Plainly, Par- 620 from the foundation of the world to redeem my People. Behold, I am Jesus Christ,,. ES My spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will [ appear unto my people in the flesh (Ether 3-14-16). We have learned that man was in the beginning with God. Latter-day Saint theology also teaches that man is eternal. Lf there was 2 peginning to man in spirit form, and man is eternal, without beginning Of end, then, how is this possible? The spirit form of man had a beginning, put not as to conscious existence. He Prophet J oseph Smith taught, in this manner, the truth that man is eternal: upon, which is calculated to exalt the immortal spirit. Where did it come from? All learned men and doctors of divinity say that God created it in the beginning; put it ls not so: the with God himself. - - - J am dwelling on the jmmortality of the spirit of man. Is it logical to say that the intelligence of spirits is From the same gource—revelation—that Abraham received his knowledge of man's eternity. (Abraham 3:17-18.) Section 93 points out that, LESSON DEPARTMENT. _ Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created OF made, And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy (verses 99, 33, These passages suggest the same idea expressed by the Prophet when he used the expression "the intelligence of spirits" in the above quotation, that is, the spirit of man co sists of spirit and intelligence, the ce. Also President J oseph Fielding once wrote this observation concerning intelligence and spirit: ored to explain what an intelligence 15, but to do so is futile, for we have never been given any insight into this mentarily revealed. We know, howis the real eternal part of man, which was not created Or made. This intelligence combined with the spirit constitutes a spiritual jdentity or indiviFOREORDINATION Without the knowledge of the pre-earth life, Latter-day Saints would be unable to understand many phases of this life. One's AUGUST 1966 tremendous value in_ shaping one's life. Class Discussion: Discuss what foreordination and the knowledge of pre-existence mean to you as an individual. The life in the premortal world has conditioned us in this life. Elder James E. Talmage wrote: In the antemortal eternities we developed with individual differences and varied capacities. So far as we can peer into the past by the aid of revealed light we see that there was always gradation of intelligence, and consequently of ability, among the spirits, precisely as such differences exist amongst us mortals... Every spirit born in the flesh is an individual character, and brings to the body prepared for its tenancy a nature all its own. The tendencies, likes and dislikes, in short the whole disposition of the spirit may be intensified or changed by the course of mortal life, and the spirit may advance or retrograde while allied with its mortal tabernacle.... The spirit lived as an organized intelligence before it became the embodied child of human parents; and its preexistent individualism will be of effect in its period of earth life. Even though the manifestations of primeval personality be largely smothered under the tendencies due to bodily and prenatal influence, it is there, and makes its mark. This is in analogy with the recognized laws of physical operation—every force acting upon a body produces its definite effect whether it acts alone or with other and even opposing forces (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 edition, page 232). There were among the spirit children of our Father many who had excelled in that world. One who was recognized as among his "rulers" was Abraham. (Abraham 3:23.) Others who were foreordained to positions of respon- 622 sibility in this life were: Adam (2 Nephi 2:22-26); Jeremiah (Jer. 1:4-5); John the Revelator (1 Nephi 14:18-27); and Joseph Smith (2 Nephi 3:14-15; D&C 124:1). Our Father's knowledge about these servants and all of his children was such that he could "see the end of their earthly career even from the first' (The Articles of Faith, page 191). Elder James E. Talmage also stated that, ""Everyone of us was known by name and character to the Father, who is 'the God of the spirits of all flesh' (Numbers 16:22; 27:16), in our antemortal or primeval childhood; and from among the hosts of his unembodied children God chose for special service on earth such as were best suited to the accomplishment of His purposes" (The Vitality of Mormonism, page 229). The foreknowledge of God does not hold that people are designated for glory or condemnation or demerit. Elder Talmage wrote that "God's knowledge of spiritual and of human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet that knowledge is not of compelling force upon the creature" (The Articles of Faith, page 191). We are thus able to see that the Lord is directing the affairs of men not only in religious events but also in other areas of the earth life. The Prophet Joseph Smith once said:... Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before the world was (DHC, VI:364). The mission of Columbus was foreknown. (I Nephi 13:12.) The Lord also raised up men to write the Constitution of the United States. (D&C 101: 79-80.) It will be remembered that unto Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob (Israel) the promise was given that their posterity would have special privileges in holding the Priesthood and being custodians of the gospel through the ages. These values and others afford Latter-day Saints considerable advantage in understanding not only their own place in this life but also the Lord's purposes for all men. The doctrine of premortality sheds a flood of light upon many questions which confront us in life. SUMMARY We have learned that in a "Christian" world that has generally departed from faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, modern revelation has given Latter-day Saints the following concepts: (1) Christ is the literal Son of LESSON DEPARTMENT God in the spirit and in the flesh; (2) Christ was the Firstborn of all the spirit sons of God; (3) all men lived before birth into this life; (4) man is eternal as to his nature because of the uncreatable intelligence which is a part of his spirit entity. Many benefits are received by man in this life by knowing of this relationship to God. The knowledge of this relationship provides the Latter-day Saint with the motivation to become exalted in the celestial kingdom. To attain this blessing demands full obedience. And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things (D&C 93:27-28). FOR CONSIDERATION Consider thoughtfully your conviction that one can do whatever one is called to do in the Church, if one has sufficient faith in the Lord. Relate this to the principle of foreordination. BEE MYRTLE Ethel Jacobson Like foam Cresting this grassy sea, Are whitecaps of bee myrtle. Petal spray trembles And tumbles against undulant green Ruffled by wind That has a thousand miles to go To reach that other sea, The restless Gulf, To mingle with its briny tang The memory of bee myrtle, Fragrant On a sun-washed inland plain. 623 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 74 — "Fear Not, Let Your Hearts Be Comforted; Yea, Rejoice Evermore, and in Everything Give Thanks" (D&C 98:1). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To be joyful and cultivate gratitude and courage. @ In August 1833 the threat of persecution hung over the saints like a summer thundercloud. The air was full of foreboding. Yet in spite of the disaster that autumn would bring, the Lord called on the saints to rejoice and give thanks. Repeatedly during that year of heavy trial and, often, of death, the Lord called the saints his friends and said to them, "Be comforted." He revealed to them that he had heard their prayers and that if they would endure to the end, all would be well with them. It must have been an amazing experience to them to be called "friends" by the Lord whom they worshipped. To be a friend implies a confidence, a companionship, a respect, and an intimacy that one does not ordinarily associate with one's relationship to Deity. "I will call you friends, for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me'"' (D&C 93:45). In the face of trouble, one can indeed be comforted and courageous if one thinks of the Lord not only as the 624 Master of the universe but as one's personal friend, sustaining and loving. While at supper on that fateful night before his crucifixion, Jesus said to another band of saints that was to know persecution, "Let not your heart be troubled.... Peace I leave with you" (John 14:1 and 27). The year that the Church was organized through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery testified of their knowledge, '"'that there is a God in heaven" (D&C 20:17). The saints, then as now, were to rejoice. They were to look beyond the troubled present toward a glorious fulfillment. God has a great plan for man on this earth. Although man knows evil and evil befalls him, yet, through it all, one has the assurance of God's love and compassion as stated in the scripture message: "Fear not, let your hearts be comforted; yea, rejoice evermore, and in everything give thanks." So, in the midst of peril, of trouble, of grief, or death, one should give thanks for life, for the earth, for man's eternal soul, and for God's great plan. We should be comforted by the assurance that God hears our LESSON DEPARTMENT prayers. We should rejoice and be thankful and take courage in the knowledge that we may have an inheritance with our Lord and that he is our friend. HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon Extending Homey Hospitality Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To discuss the joy which can come to a homemaker and her family through extending hospitality, and to show INTRODUCTION Hospitality, be it ever so simple, is one of the creative joys of life, and Aeschylus, 'Father of Greek Tragedy," gave us a true reason for entertaining when he said, '"'Pleasantest of all ties is the tie of host and guest." Customs in hospitality vary in different countries. Some adaptation of this discussion to suit different customs or foods may be necessary. TRUE HOSPITALITY Our pioneer grandmothers and great-grandmothers wore an aura of true hospitality with distinction. Though food preparation was laborious, the savory stew, the plump wheaty loaves, the hoarded dessert (so called because the table was "deserted" of everything else) were shared often. They found entertaining exciting and adventurous and satisfying, the role of food in entertaining. And a chance to be together. To share the heart of the home with no thought of "keeping up with the Joneses" was their pattern. How often you have heard: "My house is too small for entertaining; I'll ask the bishopric over for homemade ice cream when we can afford to redecorate," or "T'd like to let Stephen invite his teenage friends to our house, but I don't have the energy for preparing all that food." Let your heart speak! Sharing with others should be part of your family's training. Give your house a shiny, clean face and forget that which you cannot do. Ten years from now those bidden to your home will not remember the faded wallpaper, but they will remember with unforgettable delight the good food and the fun they had in a relaxed atmosphere. Hospitality does not mean spending next week's food budget in 625 AUGUST 1966 one fell swoop, upsetting the household unduly, or completely exhausting the homemaker. The goal of the hostess is to have each guest enjoy the warmth of companionship, the shared interests, and the congeniality of refreshment. TO DISCUSS 1. What kinds of homey hospitality might families who are living in small apartments extend to their friends? Stipulate the occasion, the service, and the food to be served. (One young couple seats their friends on huge cushions on the floor and on homemade hassocks.) 2. What kinds of enjoyable entertainment might you plan for teenagers in your home? State ways in which you might simplify the food and the serving of it (be sure it is appealing to young people and that there is enough). HOSPITALITY HINTS 1. Do not invite guests to your home merely to repay an obligation. Someone has said, "Your motive will show." Duty is never compatible with true hospitality. 2. Food need not be expensive to be delicious. On cold winter nights one family serves a hearty corn chowder, ladled from a cherished old bowl, a crisp tossed salad, crusty homemade bread sticks, and for dessert they pass big bowls of caramel corn and fruit. One of their guests exclaimed, "It is far more interesting than filet mignon." 3. Do let guests feel that they are worth extra effort and consideration, but try to let them feel also that it was accomplished easily. 4. Do stock a little corner for entertaining on your pantry shelf, buying items a few at a time when the food budget is not strained. 5. Do prepare food sometimes when you are lonely or depressed. It will not only lift your spirits, but it is said that food prepared at these times is sure to have those "tastetingling ingredients" of true hospitality. 626 6. Do not apologize for the food, the service, or your home. Chances are that the things which bother you pass unnoticed by your guests. TO DISCUSS Case study—Jean and John are entertaining John's manager and his wife at dinner. The guests have arrived and the meal is ready to be served. While Jean answers a call from her two young children, who are supposed to be asleep, her featherlight rolls, her pride and joy, have become too brown—edible and not burned, but certainly not up to her usual standard. Which of the following should Jean do? (Justify your answer.) A. Quickly make muffins or baking powder biscuits. B. Send John to the little store a few blocks away for brown and serve rolls. C. Serve the overly-brown rolls; say nothing. D. Serve the rolls; casually mention that they are over-baked. MENU REMINDERS 1. Menus are very personal and the right menu depends upon many factors; create your own' individual food patterns, suited to your needs and the occasion, provide flavor zest and eye appeal without the menu's being bizarre. 2. Do you have a food specialty, one dish which you prepare easily and can depend upon every time? One hostess makes an excellent chicken casserole; another prepares delightful lasagne; another bakes salmon to a gourmet perfection. Capitalize on that which you do best. Build your menu around it. You don't have a specialty? Then find one; it will be fun and rewarding. 3. Do not experiment with a new dish for your party. Some pitfalls may lurk in that foolproof recipe that looks so glamorous in the picture. 4. Do not undertake too elaborate menus or foods requiring much lastminute attention. A made-the-day-before dessert and left resposing in the refrigerator may be far more desirable to serve than a baked Alaska. 5. Do-ahead foods are an undiluted joy, and ease the work of entertaining —the succulent meat dish ready to be popped into the oven, the quivery fruit mold waiting to be released on its enhancing bed of greens, the icebox rolls, pleading to be shaped by deft fingers. Especially if you do everything yourself, plan a number of quick-fix and day-before foods. 6. Plan your menu with the things you have te do with in mind. SUMMARY There are no hard and fast rules for extending homey hospitality—no definite party foods. If the hostess sighs with relief as the last guest departs, you can ke quite certain that her guest is doing the same thing. The relaxed hostess who loves people, plans well, executes her plans, and does not undertake too much, will remain the "hostess with the mostest."' She will find the tie that binds host and guest stimuLESSON DEPARTMENT lating and fun and a made-formemory time. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. The little touches and garnishes can transform your old favorites into conversation pieces. Try to create or use others' ideas for garnishing food, excluding maraschino cherries and parsley. One member of the class or a. Committee might display some simple garnishes they have made. Something as simple as an autumn leaf on a plate with a cup of soup is attractive. Garden flowers or leaves also add a piquant touch. 2. Study your own cookbooks and recipes. Begin a menu file for different occasions and seasons. Create menus with an eye to your budget, advance preparation, ease of preparation, and fine points of menu making. Market orders and even recipes may be attached. SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 7 (Lesson 19 in Series) —- The Sensitive Line Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons — 1966: Lesson 25) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband and in being sensitive to other human relationships. FOLLOW-UP—LESSON 6 In rereading the conference addresses of President Hugh B. Brown and the General Relief Society Presidency, what spiritual truths did you discover anew and apply in your daily living? Discuss briefly. Cite any of the teaching methods Jesus used that you found effective in teaching in the home. INTRODUCTION An important goal of the Relief Society lessons entitled 'Teaching the Gospel in the Home" is the improvement of family relationships. Many of these lessons bring to our attention home-problem situations. Though these are often small, they may be irritating, and build barriers and cause misunderstandings. The lessons 627 AUGUST 1966 offer suggestions and ideas which may diminish, remove, or, even, prevent such undesirable situations. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum lessons likewise aim to better family _ relationships. Special emphasis, in some areas of these lessons, is placed upon the husband-wife relationship. The husband has been offered suggestions for helping him understand the desires, aspirations, and emotional needs of his wife. Assignments have been made to implement these suggestions, such as being more helpful in the home, restraining criticism and showing affection and appreciation for his wife's efforts to make their home a happy place in which to live. It is the objective of this lesson to remind the wife that she shares equal responsibility in making their marriage union a satisfying and rewarding one. The lesson will also suggest some ways and occasions where her feminine sensitivity may lead to a gracious acceptance of his increased consideration, and motivate her to reciprocate with increased consideration for his particular problems and emotional needs. WHAT DOTH IT PROFIT? For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift? Behold, he rejoices not in that which is given unto him, neither rejoices in him who is the giver of the gift. The foregoing quotation is found in the Doctrine and Covenants, 88:33. When in context, it refers to the glories of eternity which are gifts from our Heavenly Father to those who, by their 628 righteous living, are willing to receive these blessings. The underlying truth of this scripture is universal in its application. It applies not only to the spiritual blessings which our Heavenly Father offers us, but may apply to small and mundane details of everyday-living. Note how applicable it is to a city, as indicated in the words of the Savior, '"'O Jerusalem, Jerusalem,... How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" (Matt. 23:37). This basic principle seems particularly applicable to this lesson, for it is of no profit to a woman to receive a gift from a child, husband, or friend, if she receive not that gift. To make us aware of this fact and to stimulate us to make constructive use of an increased sensitivity, is the goal of this lesson. THE UNEXPECTED GIFT Discuss the following contrasting reactions to unexpected gifts, small though they be: Woman A: Fred reorganized our storage room Saturday to surprise me, but I don't like where he put some things and I told him so. Woman B: Without any suggestion from me, Fred reorganized our storage room Saturday. It looks neat as a pin. While some things aren't in the most convenient places for me, he beamed all over when I _ told him what a wonderful surprise it was. Woman No. 1: John doesn't often buy gifts for people, but recently he purchased something for me as a surprise. It was a very pretty red scarf. I think blue is a better color for me, but I'll enjoy wearing it because of the love that prompted his thoughtfulness. Woman No. 2: John rarely buys a gift for me, but recently he saw a very pretty red scarf in the store and purchased it for a surprise. I seldom wear red, so I said, "For goodness sakes, John, while you were at it, why didn't you get a blue one instead?' Tl probably never wear this red one. Discuss the probable reactions of Fred and John. FRIEND TO FRIEND Neighbor No. 1: I'm driving to the grocery store this morning, is there anything you'd like me to purchase for you and save you making the trip? Neighbor No. 2: No, I don't think so. I need a few things but I wouldn't like to bother you. Might Neighbor No. 2 have a valid (although unexpressed) reason for not wishing her neighbor to make a purchase for her? If, however, her reason for declining her neighbor's sincere offer is merely a false pride in being independent, is she not denying herself a relationship enrichment which a proffered service might have brought her? Discuss briefly. Suggest and discuss other examples. Today we hear much about empathy — that ability to put oneself into the position of another, to know his feelings and point of view. Empathy is thus the result of a developed sensitivity. If we are sensitive to the point of view of another person, we will be sensitive to his effort to please us, and we should show gratitude for that effort. When this sensitivity is reciprocal, the relationship is a more satisfying and rewarding one. Class Activity 1. Comment on the rewards which come to married children who assist their parents even in such small services as a. Frequent telephone calls or letters to see that the parents are all right. LESSON DEPARTMENT b. Driving the car on a stormy day for mother or elderly relative. Name other situations. 2. Comment on the efforts of parents to assist their married children in— a. Emergencies in housing, etc., b. Times of illness, c. Caring for grandchildren. Name other situations. SUNDAY EPISODE The following Sunday morning episode appears in Lesson 25 of the Melchizedek Priesthood lesson manual for 1965. It is reprinted here in essence. Charles K. Is a counselor in the elders' quorum presidency. He is a full tithe payer, keeps the standards of the Church, is active in all his assignments, and is also quite a successful business man. Linda is the mother of several small children. She is active in both Primary and Relief Society. She has some difficulty in budgeting her time and welcomes constructive suggestions. Coming home from Priesthood meeting one Sunday, Charles found that his wife and children were still not ready for Sunday School. Walking into the house, he was greeted by his two youngest children still in their underclothes. "Hi, Daddy," they said. "Aren't you kids ready yet?" Then looking for his wife, he found her combing their oldest daughter's hair. ''What's the deal —aren't you ready yet?" "No, I'm not ready yet," replied his wife. "You wouldn't be ready either if you'd had my problems this morning."' "It seems to me that your whole problem is - that you're never organized," said Charles. 629 AUGUST 1966 "We're always late for Church. It never fails!" "Not always, Charles, and if you'd come home and help instead of just standing there, we might be able to make it on time," retorted Linda. "Tf I ran my business the way you run this home, we'd have been broke long ago." Linda's eyes were now filled with anger. "If I ran the home like your business is run—" She couldn't finish as the tears came. Exasperated, she finally blurted out, "I've had it! I've just had it. All you have done lately is complain about things you don't see done or lecture on things you think should be important to me. You never notice the nice things I do. Do you ever stop to consider the kind of morning I've had? No —you don't notice how clean the children are! — Especially after spilling shoe dye all over themselves. Do you ever notice when we are on time to Church? No." At that she was cut off by Charles: "All right, all right, Linda. I'm sorry. You've made your point now. You don't need to nag." "When you complain you think it's constructive criticism," she said. "When I complain you call it nagging." Charles didn't say any more as he hustled the children out to the car. Finally, Linda joined her husband and family. As_ they walked in the Church together, they were greeted by the Sunday School superintendent. "Made it,'"' said Charles. "If all the families in the Church were like yours, Charlie, we wouldn't have any worries," the superintendent replied. If 630 only he knew, Linda thought as she sat down, if he only knew. CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION A It is evident that both Charles and Linda are responsible for this increasingly unpleasant Sunday morning episode. Aside from the fact that there is value in Linda's knowing how Charles feels about being prompt for Church functions, and about her need for improving her organization practices, let us consider the episode from the viewpoint of personal reactions. 1. Could Linda have reduced the tension by responding in a different manner, even though Charles made essentially the same statements? How? 2. How could the shoe dying incident have been avoided? 3. Even if the shoes had been polished the night before, would that have guaranteed a peaceful and happy atmosphere? 4. Would a sense of humor have been materially helpful? If so, how? When? CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION B Suppose Charles, through discussion in his quorum meetings, had decided that he would be more considerate in his attitude, courteous in his speech, and more helpful to Linda. Although he feels strongly about being at Church on time, he does not want her to be humiliated, especially before the children. He wants her to feel secure in her role as wife and mother, and to know that he appreciates her. When he returns from Priesthood meeting on a Sunday morning to take the family to Sunday School, he finds that they are not ready. (The situation is thus the same as given in Situation A—the youngest children are still in their underclothes. Linda also reacts essentially as she did in Situation A. Only the response of Charles is different.) Charles is about to make a critical remark about being late, which Linda really anticipates, but he _ restrains himself. Instead, he says, "I see you're not ready yet, honey, and we haven't much time. Is there anything I can do to help out?" Charles stands silently for a moment and then asks again, "Is there anything I can do to help?" Linda, being unhappy that interruptions have thwarted her plans to be ready on time, but apparently insensitive to Charles' unexpected offer to help, says, "No, I'm not ready yet, and if you'd had my problems this morning you wouldn't be ready either. I know what you are thinking and that you'd like to say— we are never on time, but don't say it, don't. I'll get ready as fast as I can." His offer to help ignored, rather than graciously received, Charles, in disappointment, says, "Well, all right, but don't dally. We're almost late now." What doth it profit a man [woman] if a gift is bestowed upon him and he receive not the gift? QUESTION Will Charles be as likely to proffer his help should a similar incident take place on a following Sunday? What might he do? CASE STUDY 1 ANALYSIS, SITUATION C Linda, having been an interested participant in the discussions in Relief Society as to how to better family relationships, has been made aware that all members of a relationship share in the responsibility to make that relationship rewarding. She has come to realize the value of organizing her time wisely and of planning ahead. Consequently, the children's shoes have been polished on Saturday night. The older children have been given specific assignments, such as dressing the younger children early. All family members aim to be ready when Daddy gets home from Priesthood meeting. All has gone smothly until the unexpected happens. The twins, LESSON DEPARTMENT having decided to feed the kitten, overturn a dish of grape jelly in their attempt to get the bottle of milk from the refrigerator, spilling both on their Sunday clothes. Linda has rushed to the kitchen disaster just as Charles enters the house. "Everybody ready?" he calls. No answer. Quickly he surveys the crying scene. Linda, disciplining her emotions, says, ""We thought we were, dear. We really tried, didn't we, children?" She manages some light laughter, and Charles, too, cannot resist the humor of the situation. Their laughter relieves the tension, as Linda adds, ""The unexpected is sure to happen." "Well, is there anything I can do to help out?" Charles asks. "There certainly is something you can do. You are the 'stitch in time that saves nine,' "" Linda replies gratefully. "If you will sponge out George's hair and take off his suit, Nancy will get him another one. I think I can quickly spot Margie's dress so it won't need to be changed." Within a few minutes all are in the car and Charles, surveying his happy family, says "You did a fine job, children, helping mother. I think we'll make it on time in spite of the milk and the jelly." And Linda, relieved, says "Thanks for your attitude and your help, Charles, we might not have made it otherwise. You're a dear." This is cooperation, resulting from the correlation lessons being taught the husband in Priesthood meetings and the wife in Relief Society. SUMMARY In order to maintain a satisfying relationship, both husband and wife need to learn to communicate understandingly _ together. The woman should strive to develop an awareness of her husband's needs and point of 631 AUGUST 1966 view. She should be sensitive to and grateful for his efforts to improve their relationship and to meet her needs and problems. While the major episode (case study) discussed in this lesson involves a home where there are small children, the basic principle is equally applicable in homes of middle years where the children are married or where there are no children. This is not a lesson for young mothers only. It is for all Relief Society women. DISCUSSION 1. Questions that appear in the lesson. 2. Make full use of discussion: possibilities calling for additional examples applicable to "Friend to Friend" relationship, and the unexpected gift. FOR HOME-DOING 1. Evaluate your own reaction to some difficult situation in the home to see if a more sensitive approach to the other person's point of view and needs might improve the situation. 2. Profit by this evaluation. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume II: Love, Marriage, and the Family, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Lesson 2 — Refinement Creates Beauty 'Refinement creates beauty everywhere." William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: Refinement gives to a woman the desire for creating beauty in WOMAN'S GOAL OF CULTURAL REFINEMENT Cultural refinement should be one of the goals for all Latter-day Saints, as individuals and as members of a family. To achieve this refinement a woman will conscientiously try to be wellgroomed, creative, genteel. She will be sensitive to the individual temperaments of other people so that she does not offend. She will cultivate a pleasing personality and good taste in all that she says and does, as well as in the clothes that she wears. Finally, 632 her marriage and family relationships. She will be aware of the loveliness of beauty and will strive to grace herself and also her home with beauty, not just physical beauty, but also beauty in language, in action, and, above all, in character. From the beginning the Church has encouraged participation in the creative arts—the reading of good books, the singing and playing of lovely music, the participation in artistic drama, the enjoyment of graceful dancing, etc. We need great literature, great music, great painting within the Church, and those women who desire to be creative should do everything possible to allow time for the expression of their creative interests. It is important, however, to remember that highquality thinking and characterbuilding are also beautifully creative. As President McKay has often reminded us, the greatest creative role available to women is motherhood. In all of these creative activities, and including motherhood, good taste and refinement need to be emphasized —the cultivation of gentleness and mature mellowness. LITERARY SELECTIONS The lesson for this month centers attention on two poems, Elizabeth Barrett Browning's "Sonnets from the Portuguese" and John Keats's "The Eve of St. Agnes," and two short stories, Katherine Mansfield's "Marriage & La Mode" and Willa Cather's "The Sculptor's Funeral'—all of which are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Two of Volume II of Out of the Best Books. Class leaders and Relief Society sisters who have access to the text should study the selections there because space permits only very brief treatment in this Magazine lesson. Also, class leaders should realize that the selections are too long for all four to be covered in one lesson. Therefore, each leader should choose those selections she feels will be most valuable for her group. Many leaders will undoubtedly decide that Mrs. Browning's poem and the Mansfield story combine to make an excellent lesson in_ contrast; others will probably prefer to concentrate on the Keats poem or on the Cather story. LESSON DEPARTMENT (Note to class leaders: The two short stories are still under copyright and should not be re-copied without special permission from the original publishers. The two poems, however, are out of copyright and may be recopied without special permission.) Sonnets From the Portuguese: The first selection and the one to which we are giving principal emphasis in this lesson, is Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Sonnets from the Portuguese. We have chosen this selection for emphasis because it reflects a love and marriage that are beautiful in their tenderness, genteel purity, and spirituality. To understand the sonnets, we need to know something about Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning. In real life, as in their poems and letters to each other, theirs was a_ truly beautiful courtship and marriage in spite of the fact that she was six years older than he. (She was forty years old, he thirty-four when they married.) They were deeply and permanently devoted to each other, and their marriage was rooted in all the enduring bonds of emotional, social, physical, intellectual, and spiritual harmony that combine to make an ideal companionship. In fact, their romance is more beautiful than most fictional love stories. In her own lifetime Elizabeth Barrett (1806-1861) was generally regarded as England's greatest poetess and one of the world's truly great poets. Now, a hundred years after her death, most of her poetry is forgotten. But she is still remembered as the wife of the great Robert Browning, and her letters and poems to him are still lovely in their devotion, especially the forty-four poems 633 AUGUST 1966 in Sonnets From the Portuguese. We also need to know a little about the childhood and family life of the young Elizabeth. As a result of a spine injury, weakened lungs, and various other ailments, from her fifteenth year onward she was in delicate health and in-- creasingly withdrew from the world, spending most of her hours reading and writing in her darkened room, a pale, fragile, and famous semi-invalid poet. Her father was wealthy and domineering, which encouraged this most sensitive of his daughters to lead a life of pampered seclusion. Then, because he had read and admired her poetry, the robust exuberant Robert Browning came into her life. For several months before they met they exchanged admiring letters. Finally they met. From that day Browning's visits were regular, at first weekly, then semi-weekly. Gradually his attentive devotion and his energetic masculinity transformed her life. Even her health improved so that she could lead a more normal existence. Within a year they acknowledged their love; within two years they were married. Browning was, in fact, in love from the beginning; but Elizabeth was slow to hope that romance could enter her middle-aged life and especially reluctant to burden her poetlover with the care of a semiinvalid. Browning and love won, however, and fifteen years of idyllic marriage followed, spent mostly in Italy, until her death in 1861. "Robert and I are deep in the fourth month of wedlock; there has not been a shadow between us," she wrote to one of her close friends, and similar letters 634 were written to other friends indicating the growth of their love during all the years that remained. She even recovered her health sufficiently to bear two sons. Although her early life is reflected in the sonnets, and her years of happy marriage are anticipated, all forty-four of the sonnets were actually written in the secrecy of her bedroom, during the sixteen months of courtship prior to their marriage on 12 September 1846. They are extremely personal poems, intended at the time for no one to see, not even Browning. It wasn't until three years after their marriage that anyone knew she had written the sonnets. Then one day she timidly gave them to Browning, telling him she had written them in secret before their marriage, and suggesting that he might destroy them if he found them unworthy. Instead, with her hesitant consent, he published them as a record to the world of their love, thinly disguising their personal nature under the deliberately misleading title Sonnets From the Portuguese. Written as they were in secret, the sonnets record Elizabeth's varying moods and feelings as she gradually moves through courtship towards marriage, at times terribly afraid and apprehensive, at other times feeling that she is completely unworthy of Browning's love, and, at still other times, caught up in the ecstasy and rapture and glory of love that is fully given and fully returned. As poetry the sonnets have weaknesses. Some of them, especially the early ones, are marred with tinges of sentimentality and self-pity, and others are somewhat "arty" and artificially overrhetorical in their wording. Also, at times there is in them an intimate piety that makes a modern reader somewhat embarrassed and ill at ease. But, in spite of these weaknesses, throughout the poems one senses a love and faith that are genuine, spiritual, enduring, and, above all, refined. They will undoubtedly seem rather oldfashioned both in their wording and in their sentiment; but they have much to say about the nature of wholesome, refined, faithfilled love that modern readers should hear. Especially is this true of the best of them—Sonnets 1, 3, 14, 22, 25, and 35. In this mid-twentieth-century world of broken marriages, earthly realism, and cynical despair surrounding us on all sides, we can profit from reviewing a love story as spiritual and idealized as this one reflected in Mrs. Browning's sonnets. As samples of these sonnets we here print as many as_ space allows: 14 If thou must love me, let it be for naught Except for love's sake only. Do not say "I love her for her smile—her look— her way. Of speaking gently—for a trick of thought That falls in well with mine, and certes brought A sense of pleasant ease on such a day" — For these things in themselves, Beloved, may Be changed, or change for thee—and love, so wrought, May be unwrought so. Neither love me for LESSON DEPARTMENT Thine own dear pity's wiping my cheeks dry— A creature might forget to weep, who bore Thy comfort long, and lose thy love thereby! But love me for love's sake, that evermore Thou mayst love on, through love's eternity. 22 When our two souls stand up erect and strong, Face to face, silent, drawing nigh and nigher, '= the lengthening wings break into ire At either curved point—what bitter wrong Can the earth do to us, that we should not long Be here contented? Think. In mounting higher, The angels would press on us and aspire To drop some golden orb of perfect song Into our deep, dear silence. Let us stay Rather on earth; Beloved—where the unfit Contrarious moods of men recoil away And isolate pure spirits, and permit A place to stand and love in for a day, With darkness and the death-hour rounding it. This sonnet (No. 22) is perhaps the strongest poetically of the entire 44. In the vigor of its imagery and thought it stands above all the others as an expression of the enduring power of their love, which is both earthly and heavenly. 43 How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight; For the ends of Being and ideal Grace. I love thee to the level of everyday's 635 AUGUST 1966 Most quiet need, by sun and candlelight. I love thee freely, as men strive for Right; I love thee purely, as they turn from Praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with a love I seemed to lose With my lost saints—I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life!—and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death. To round out the beautiful, refined love story in the life and poetry of the Brownings, we need to be aware that Robert Browning loved his wife as deeply and permanently as she loved him. He was more reluctant to express his personal feelings in poetry, however. Even so, there are a few little poems and pieces of poems which, scattered throughout his long career, let us inside his heart to witness the deep, beautiful, enduring love he felt for his wife, both before their marriage, during the fifteen years of marriage, and for long years after her death—poems such as "A Woman's Last Word," "My Star," "By the Fireside," '"O Lyric Love," and several others. Browning believed with unwavering confidence not only that life continues beyond death but also that married couples may reunite in love after death, to find a fulfillment more glorious than any earthly relationship. His most robust expression of this confidence appears at the end of "Prospice." In this poem, written shortly after Mrs. Browning's death, he vigorously looks beyond death to an eternal companionship with his wife, assert- 636 ing "O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, and with God be the rest!" Because "Prospice" was printed and discussed in Volume I (pp. 459-460), it will not be repeated here, but readers are invited to review the earlier discussion because the poem is surely a clear, beautiful, and powerful expression of the eternal union lovers may have in marriage. Thoughts and Questions for Discussion: 1. In what specific ways do these sonnets reflect refinement in love and language? 2. How does a study of these sonnets help to show that love at its best is rooted in religious faith? Notes on Other Selections: The three remaining selections for this lesson are as important as Mrs. Browning's poem and will be preferred by some leaders, but space does not permit more than a brief mention of them here. Class leaders who wish to teach these selections will need to study them in the text, where they are printed in full, with detailed comments and questions for discussion. In contrast to the refined love of Sonnets From the Portuguese, Mansfield's "Marriage a La Mode" presents a love and marriage that are unwholesome and frivolously pleasure-filled, heading for disaster. This selection should be used only as a contrasting story to the Browning sonnets. Keats's, "The Eve of St. Agnes," is one of the most beautiful poems ever written. In its refinement and exquisite loveliness of language we have pure artistry, and in its idyllic narrative we have one of the tenderest, most beautiful love stories ever told. The poem is culturally rich from beginning to end, not only in its musical language but also in its vivid descriptions, like the paintings of a great artist. A beautiful hour could be spent with this poem alone. The final selection is another short story, "The Sculptor's Funeral" by Willa Cather. Here we see the conflict between those who appreciate artistic culture and those who are insensitive to it as well as to refined understanding in human relations. All of the cultural arts are intimately related to the extent that sensitivity in one usually accompanies LESSON DEPARTMENT sensitivity in all. Sensitivity in art usually encourages sensitivity in spiritual values as well as in human relationships. Again, a rewarding hour can be _ spent studying this story for those groups who feel it will be especially valuable and appropriate for their needs. MUSIC ENRICHMENT In connection with the literature in this lesson, designated music from the recording should be heard to give emphasis to the refinement which a woman receives from an awareness and appreciation of music. (PZ The New Magna-Vu! Glass! Bags plus 32 cents postage. A little marvel for reading. Crocheting, and knitting... %& Hangs around your neck and sits on your chest comfortably. %& Leaves the hands free for working. %& Comes in a vinyl case. % Magnifies a large area Name...........-.....2----05. Address.........0.20.0.0-02.0 0002 eee eens Ciilh). OS ocoabac-Zone. State.....-.... J Deseret t Book Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. Please send me a Magna Vu Glass. Residents of Utah include 342% sales tax. ST COMPAN 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE euneg ee LAKE CITY ——= == = 44. East South Temple, Enclosed is 637 Meiiuily... Ideal for fine work and for looking at detail. $5.27 in money order_......, check.........1 have an account, please charge. SACRED MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES (SSA) a. ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS ie | EVENTIDE—Madsen......-..---.25... COME, COME, YE SAINTS —Madsen...........2-: eeeeceeeeee 25 aGOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner _.........30 S.-sHEAVENS ARE TELLING —Haydn.25 _.. LORD BLESS AND KEEP THEE—Madsen _............--.------.25 esNO MAN IS AN ISLAND Ringwald...2........ E eee.25 —PRAYERFUL HOUR—Chopin...25 nlOH, MAY | KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND—Madsen.........20 aONWARD CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS—Simeone.............30 a, THIS DAY IS MINE—Ware.......20 [J Money Enclosed Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC CO. ' 145 SOUTH STATE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84111 | Please send the music indicated above:! [1] On Approval Ul Charge _] Money Enclosed f ' ' { { 1 { City and State The totally new Daynes i, a8 | HALUTLALILLILL La South State om. FREE in the spacious lot just east of our new Store... Or in any of the downtown lots. WE VALIDATE So ee ce ee es ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee AT CONFERENCE Sarah Heron Paisley, Scotland The Cannon girls look wonderful, White blouse and black, black hair. Their faces are so radiant! No beauty can compare. Their eyes so dark, but full of light, A picture to behold, As their lips, they part in song, Make sounds like tinkling gold. All our girls are beautiful— Each one without compare; Heather Macrae with auburn hair, Smiling face with radiant glow; Two rows of snow white blouses! Adorned our girls so pure! It makes one think of heaven With light of a bright azure. A Few Reservations Available on PAGEANT TOURS Bus: July 16—18—23 Air: July 19 — Start $245.00 SEE UTAH CANYON LAND TOURS (Labor Day Holiday) MEXICO — $99.00 ALASKA — $280.00 HAWAII — From $399.00 Depart July 12 — Aug. 12 — Sept. 3 Oct. 15 — Nov. 18 ORIENT HOLIDAY Summer and Fall — WEST INDIES Fall and Winter — CARIBBEAN AROUND THE WORLD IN 80 DAYS Europe Auto—Europe COLORAMA — NEW ENGLAND 35 Days DON'T FORGET ROSE PARADE TOUR! Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 i \ | | '! SEE THE WITH Cleon Skousen OCT. 11 DEPARTURE = MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR HOLYLAND TOUR... NAME MURDOCK ADDRESS TRAVEL — BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY TOUR August 21 SOUTHERN PARKS Labor Day Tour September 3 NEW ENGLANDCANADIAN FALL TOUR September 3 HAWAIIAN ALOHA TOUR October 15 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 27 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2..... 55 Zone 6.......... -90 Zone 5.......... 8 —_ DESERET [PEws PRESS 639 one 3...........60 Zone 4......... 65 Zone 8 Zone 7..........1.05 1.20 Lirthday Congratelalions 100 Mrs. Annie Erickson Benson Logan, Utah Mrs. Needa Johnson Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amanda Crum Angle Glendale, California 99 Mrs. Sarah Francis Hendon Warren, Arkansas 98 Mrs. Mary Flint House Brigham City, Utah 95 Mrs. Chelnecha Damron Barron Inkom,! Daho 9 Mrs. Anne Kerstena Nielson Busk Monroe, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Rahing Regh Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emma Rigby Jacobs Williams Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. -Lauretta Mattison Borup Layton, Utah Mrs. Mary Francis Robinson Kirtland, New Mexico 640 93 Mrs. Louie Burt Evans Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Ammar Elizabeth Pi Burley, Idaho Mrs. Olivia Malmquist Montebello, California 9 Mrs. Mary Ann Mitchell Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Cottam St. George, Utah Mrs. Carola J. Wurzbach Fullerton, California 90 Mrs. Millesant Wheelock Mountain View, Wyoming Mrs. Lorena Mahoney Oates Paradise, California Mrs. Irene Smith Merrill Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Spring Gessel Logan, Utah Mrs. Harriet E. Butler Pulsipher Eagar, Arizona Mrs. Ellen Kap Hansen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Daisy Burt Reeder Brigham City, Utah INSPIRING REACING TAKE HEED TO YOURSELVES $4.95 Gospel Discourses of PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Deseret Book is proud to present this significant new volume as part of the 90th birthday anniversary celebration of President Smith. A choice compilation of sermons and writings, this book includes the warning voice that President Smith has raised to members of the Church during his 56 years as a General Authority. PLEASE TELL ME $2.95 By Elizabeth and Stanley Schoenfeld Contrary to the old statement, today's children seem to be heard as much as they are seen, and they ask a lot of questions. Here is a book by parents, written for parents and teachers alike, to help answer many of the Gospel questions which children constantly ask. Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, Or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me (1 TAKE HEED TO YOURSELVES (] PLEASE TELL ME I enclose a check/money order to cover cost of purchases. Total cost to include 32% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store, Or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange Store. Or, I have an account — please charge me. COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA RS. AUG. 66 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah a. Birthdays are fun... And this is our 75th! Yes, U and I Sugar built its first factory in Lehi, Utah, in 1891 — 75 years ago. And to help celebrate our anniversary, we had Cynthia Scott, our U and I home economist, create a U and I Sugar 75th BIRTHDAY CAKE... Especially for you. Here's the recipe: Uand I 75th Birthday Cake U AND | SUGAR Y% cup boiling water 1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda Nl p 4 egg yotks Y% cup buttermilk A 2% cups flour, sifted 1 teaspoon vanilla Cream sugar and butter until light and fluffy, add egg yolks one at a time and beat well after the addition of each. Add flour and salt alternately with % cup buttermilk. Melt chocolate in boiling water, dissolve soda in tiered cake pans, greased and floured on bottom. Sprinkle the tops of two layers with sliced almonds. Bake ina moderate oven (350 degrees) 25 to 30 minutes. Cool. Use your favorite frosting and filling. 2 cups granulated Y% teaspoon salt % cup buttermilk % cup buttermilk and mix these two until smooth. Add vanilla. Fold into creamed mixture. Fold in beaten egg whites. Pour into three 9" layer cake pans or a set of 1 pkg. German sweet chocolate 4 egg whites, beaten until stiff 34 cup sliced almonds PURE Fi NE GRANULATED ba Ad SAREE ¥ oad oa o My f father doen upon. His PES lt a Wah When summer thrust. Its fulness, green and dense, In leaf and 'root' and spear. His keen | 'Survey - From hill to river-bed, from fence to. Fence, || Encompassed more | than ripened grain, the field | The, Cover: Frontispiece: Art 'Layout: Illustrations: | Of sun-striped corn, the lucerne's emerald square, | He saw his furrowed acres sweet with yield, | His handiwork in all things growing there. _ He said no boasting word, but quiet pride Was. In the sudden straightening of his stance. — _ His, winter-nurtured plans seemed satisfied = And. Met the sternest measure of his glance. In such a way | think God must have stood And looked upon the world and called it good. Autumn 'in American Fork Canyon, Utah Transparency by Claire WwW, Noall Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Harvest Field Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Dick Scopes Mary: Scopes 2 nee aa age ~— - - 3 We are presently serving as missionaries in a small town in El Salvador. Several weeks ago we organized the Relief Society here in our branch. Every month when we receive the Magazine, the sisters are anxious to have us translate new recipes into Spanish so they, too, may enjoy the wonderful food ideas that are found in the Magazine. Of course, the missionaries receive their share of the benefits, as the sisters always want to try out their new dishes on us. We just received the good news from the mission president's wife that the Magazine will soon be available in Spanish for the sisters here in Latin America. We have received several subscriptions already, and the women here are really enthused about the idea of having the Magazine written in their own language. David F. Corrigan Erick Ronnie Soto Sonsonate, El Salvador In the May 1966 issue, Sister Leah Green expressed beautifully the "Thoughts of a _ Latter-day Saint Mother."' May | add my agreement to her heartfelt prayer. We are truly blessed sisters to have the opportunity to seek and receive guidance through the Holy Spirit towards being good wives and rearing our children as our Father in heaven would have us do. Being a convert of three years, and mother of four precious spirits, | am thankful for the gospel plan. Mrs. Laretta Johnson Napa, California | must thank Sister Margery S. Stewart for the heart-warming, inspirational story ''Wheat for the Wise"' (serial concluded in July 1966). | am sure if she realized the joy she has given so many, she would know, indeed, that she has stored up rewards in heaven. Verna V. Rogers Barstow, California 642 ea V4 be a hom Near aul Uf | am delighted with the lessons outline (in the June Magazine) for the coming season. | stand to be improved 100 per cent this year through the lessons. Every lesson is just what I have been needing. Mrs. B. V. Peterson Ottawa, Canada They say everyone has a '"'look-alike," and after reading in the July Magazine the article "Songs My Mother Sang," | realize we may have, also, ''doalikes." The way this mother sang and the songs she sang were identical to the favorites of my family. | recall at Christmastime, | was training my daughter to dry the silverware, and the tune ''Silver Bells" was very popular. My lyrics went like this "Silverware.... Silverware.... It's drying time in the kitchen...."" These melodious tones brought my young one running and smiling. Song had made work a joy. Mayda Reeves Idaho Falls, Idaho | thank you with gratitude and happiness for the article on "The Gleaners' (June 1966, by Floyd Breinholt). It was one of the bright spots of my day, and | have turned to it many times since. One need of the women in the world today is a re-emphasis of the cultural aspects in this life of ours. We truly need to ponder more deeply the gentle beauty found in art. Kay Peterson Los Angeles, California Every month a Relief Society Magazine is being sent to me since years ago. | do love it, and today | fee! Overwhelmed with joy receiving the Magazine from unknown sisters. Reading it improves my English language, and best of all, it leads me into a fine garden of heavenly flowers. Margarida Christina Larsen Londrina, Parana, Brazil Tne Relief Society Magazine Volume 53 September 1966 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 645 The Testimony of a Prophet 647 International Council of Women Conference Belle S. Spafford 669 Hawaii—Land of Flowers Claire W. Noall Fiction 655 Always Be Near Me Frances C. Yost 663 Tell Me of Love Chapter 3 Rosa Lee Lloyd 693 Bird Dramas Rose A. Openshaw General Features 642 From Near and Far 659 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 660 Editorial: Development Through Service Marianne C. Sharp 662 Notes to the Field: Visual Aids—Spiritual Living Course Cultural Refinement Textbook and Audio-Visual Aids 696 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities The Home - Inside and Out 677 A Family Tapestry Carolyn Durham Peters 678 Blossoms for Lasting Beauty Myrene T. Alvord 682 Mexican Holiday Bazaar 684 A Feast From Florida Olive W. Burt 686 The Bath (La Toilette) Mary Cassatt 688 Woman With Plants Grant Wood 689-690 Commentaries on Paintings Floyd E. Breinholt 690 Aunt Nellie's Raisin-Rice Custard Alta Williams 692 Ellis F. Nielsen—Maker of Toys, Pillows, and Quilts Lesson Department 703 Spiritual Living... Light and Truth Roy W. Doxey 709 Visiting Teacher Message... "Obtain a Knowledge of History..." Alice Colton Smith 710 Homemaking... A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Hazel S. Cannon 713 Social Relations... From Virtue to Virtue Alberta H. Christensen 717 Cultural Refinement—No Lesson for December Poetry 641 His Furrowed Acres Alice Morrey Bailey Arrowhead, Peggy Tangren, 654; First Day at School, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 668; Stature, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 680; Young Child, Christie Lund Coles, 681; Comfort During Stress, Kathryn Kay, 690; September Snow, Beulah Huish Sadleir, 695. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section'1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. THE TESTIMONY OF A PROPHET Birthday Congratulations to President David 0. McKay September 8, 1966 Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a seer, and a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church (D&C 107: 92). On this ninety-third birthday of President David O. McKay, Relief Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend to him their love and their appreciation for his prophetic counsel. With gratitude and rejoicing, the women of the Church recall at this birthday time the teachings and the testimony of the Prophet who dwells among us, and who has traveled to the continents and the islands 645 SEPTEMBER 1966 of the sea—to the many nations—declaring his steadfast faith in the restored gospel. As a special witness, ordained as prophet, seer, and revelator, he has spoken with authority and inspiration as one called in these latter-days to declare that the Redeemer lives and has placed upon the earth a knowledge of his plan of salvation. President McKay's testimony is a light and an illumination for all who are striving to perfect their own understanding of the gospel and to plan their lives in accordance with divine direction. Throughout the years of his ministry among the saints and during his world-wide journeys, he has widened the horizons of those who have heard his voice, and has lifted to higher aspirations the spiritual yearnings of those who seek a true and eternal knowledge of the gospel. Many of these treasures of truth — words of testimony — have become a heritage of wisdom and spiritual direction. On this occasion of President McKay's birthday, we consider again a sparkling garland from his prophetic gems of truth, and we are strengthened anew by his testimony of belief in Jesus Christ and the restored gospel: I know he lives and his power is potent; that he is the Son of God, and that he has restored in this dispensation the complete plan of salvation. As surely as you can tune in on the radio and hear voices from afar, so sure am I that God our Father lives, and the soul of man can commune with him through the Holy Spirit. I give you that as my testimony; I know it. I testify to you that God lives, and that he is guiding this Church, that he has inspired those at the head, and that he will continue to inspire them and lead them.... It is in this sense of unwavering trust that I refer to faith in Christ as the most important need of the world — a belief that determines a man's religion. It is more than a mere feeling. It is power that moves to action and should be in human life the most basic of all motivating forces.... I commend you to think seriously about these matters. They give comfort and solace which can be obtained in no other way.... God has spoken. The day of Israel is here, and the coming of the Son of Man is not far off. How many years it matters not. It is nearby. We must do our part and prepare for it. The greatest event of the nineteenth century was the appearing of two heavenly Beings to the boy Prophet Joseph Smith, revealing the personal identity respectively of God the Eternal Father and of his Son Jesus Christ. As Relief Society women who have been privileged to hear and bear record of the counsel and the testimony of President McKay, we wish for him on his birthday much happiness and contentment and the prayers of the saints for his welfare. Truly, we are thankful that a prophet dwells among us. 646 REPORT International Council of Women Conference May 14-26, 1966 ee ee ei a Cae ree FCO OL LL LLL LIT, President Belle S. Spafford @ The International Council of Women (ICW) held its 26th Triennial Conference May 14-26, 1966, in Teheran, Iran, at the invitation of the Princess Ashraf, chairman of the High Council of Women of Iran and twin sister of the Shah. Queen Farah, the beautiful wife of the Shah, was patron of the conference. She gave the opening address, followed by an address by the Princess. The Queen and the Princess attended a number of the meetings and entertained the delegates at an elaborate buffet dinner at the historic and lavish Golestan Palace. The dinner was followed by a colorful program of native music and dancing, presented from a glittering stage in the palace gardens, with participants dressed in native costume. The invitation to hold the conference in Teheran had been accepted by the ICW in recognition of the Iranian women having been granted suffrage in 1963. Prior to 1936 the women were veiled. The liberation of the women is regarded as one of three major programs of the Shah, Reza Pahlavi, designed to promote progress and advance the nation. The other two programs are land reform and a crash program to correct illiteracy. Today several women are in the Iranian Parliament. Iran is predominantly a Moslem country, with Friday observed as the Sabbath. The United States delegation arrived on a Friday and had difficulty getting someone to help with luggage. Iran is a country of sharp contrasts. Teheran, the capital city, retains much that is ancient in character; yet amazes one with much that is new and modern. Many women still wear the Chadorr (a shawl-like wrap which covers the head and body). It is not uncommon to see students with their books and papers studying at night under the street lamps. Yet the city boasts a modern airport, modern hotels, and new _ business __ buildings. Much of the intricate and beautiful ancient Persian arts and crafts has been preserved, such as carpet weaving and ornamental engravings on beautifully designed brass objects. Iranian women are pretty, intelligent, and socially gracious. The conference was attended by approximately 600 women representing national councils of 647 INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN CONFERENCE sixty nations. During the conference, seven additional councils were accepted as members. Each participating national council is allowed a number of voting delegates according to the size of its membership. The National Council of Women (NCW) of the United States, one of the largest councils and the oldest member of the ICW, was allowed ten voting delegates with ten alternates. Distinct recognition was accorded the Relief Society and the YWMIA in the appointment of the presidents of these two auxiliaries of the Church as voting delegates. President Spafford was assigned to the section on Social Welfare and President Florence S. Jacobsen to the section on Youth and the Family. Other sections and the voting United States council delegate assigned to each were as follows: Education—Judith S. Randall Health—Dr. Katherine Merritt Housing—Edythe F. Bull Music—Dr. Grace H. Spofford Handicrafts—Vanderbuilt Webb Migration—Valodejmyr Pushkar Finance—Hope Scherry Cinema—Dudley Seldon Press and Public Relations— Countess Alicia Paolozvi International Relations—Mrs. Talbot, wife of Ambassador to Greece Trades and Professions—Dr. Dorothy Gregg Home Economics—Mary B. Wood The announced theme of the conference was "Ancient Values in a Changing World." As the conference progressed, this theme seemed to become submerged, however, with a new _ theme, of "Community Development," gaining ascendancy, spearheaded by an impressive address by the chairman of the Danish delegation in which she advocated programs and action that would afford greater opportunity for women in community life, indicating a need for this even in the developed countries. She pointed out that women, in turn, would then be able to make more constructive contributions _ toward community development. The ICW, at its triennial conferences, has always aimed to present factual data in its efforts to focus the attention of organized women on matters related to family and community life and to encourage efforts to correct unfavorable conditions, as well as to chart courses aimed toward improving family and community life. Resolutions designed to aid in the accomplishment of these purposes are drawn up in the respective sectional meetings and adopted, amended, or rejected in the plenary sessions. No national council, however, can be committed to any cause or project recommended by the ICW except by its own vote. The right to vote or abstain from voting on any resolution is an inherent right of national councils holding ICW membership. The delegates were informed, public-spirited women, holding positions of distinction and influence in their respective countries. Many were members of General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford and President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association departing from New York City to attend the meetings of the International Council of Women. 649 SEPTEMBER 1966 their parliaments. Each seemed eager to understand the problems of the others and to work unitedly in a spirit of friendship for goals of common _ importance. Traditions, cultures, degrees of development, differing social, economic, and political conditions made it difficult, at times, for delegates to come together on resolutions that all could fully support. In the plenary sessions, program participants spoke feelingly of the importance of good home and family life; but, at the same time, they advanced ideas and made proposals for programs that would increase the participation of women in community life and take them more and more from their homes and their children. The discussions in the Social Welfare Section assumed a definite aspect of moral welfare, with the varied social implications. The Convenor, Madame Droin of Switzerland, summarized reports of the participating councils on birth control and prostitution, which had been designated areas for study and factfinding for the last three-year period. The study of birth control had been initiated at the Washington Conference three years ago because of the inadequacy of production and economic resources in some countries to meet the demands of a rapidly growing population. Prostitution seemed to be of importance to organized women in view of the increases of venereal diseases in many countries, and the problem, in some of the developing countries, of girls being attracted from rural areas to urban centers by the seemingly better opportunities there, only to find themselves in- 650 adequately equipped to take advantage of the job opportunities and to cope with life in the cities while separated from families and friends. Under these circumstances, a number of them were turning to prostitution. Reports of participating councils indicated that prostitution is declining. Delegates admitted, however, that sex promiscuity appeared to be on the increase, creating serious social problems in its wake. The Social Welfare Section discussions led to a motion, in the section that the study of birth control be no longer pursued by the International Council of Women. It was the opinion that this matter would be best left to the respective national councils to deal with in their own countries according to needs and circumstances, taking into account religious viewpoints. It was further decided no longer to pursue the study of prostitution. A resolution finalizing the study of this subject was adopted. Delegates were aroused over the increase in sexual promiscuity. It was agreed that recommendation be made to the plenary session that the next three-year study center around the following general divisions: Promiscuity—contributing factors, and related social evils and treatment programs. Community Development, including emphasis on productive leisure-time activities. Also, the legal aspects of child placements would be considered by the Laws and Suffrage Section. Delegates in the Child and Family Section talked of ways of making the home the honored Her Majesty Queen Farah; Mrs. Erwin M. Schuller of Great Britain, President, International Council of Women; Princess Ashraf of Iran. Place in the community, how to establish family stability, and home problems arising where a mother works outside the home, and the need of care for children. Three codes of conduct worked out by parents and children in three United States communities on standards of dress, dating, morals, driving, and school studies were presented, President Jacobsen said. The Section of Health was of particular interest and national health and medical programs, including the Medicare program of the United States, were explained. Discussions followed, which pointed up a need for more hospital and nursing home facilities; more nurses—both professional and_ semi-professional (licensed practical nurses); more effective use of available nursing resources; more training programs in home nursing; more intensive public health education programs. The variance in nurse training programs was very pronounced, ranging from a few weeks in one of the developing countries to four years in some of the developed countries for socalled registered nurses. On the whole, the resolutions passed in the plenary sessions were based on factual information, thoughtfully prepared, and worthy of the support of the international women. The entire conference had excellent official recognition. Delegates were entertained, in addition to the dinner given by 651 SEPTEMBER 1966 the Queen and the Princess, by the Mayor of Teheran, and by distinguished Iranian women in their homes. A highlight of the visit to Iran was the party given by the wife of the American Ambassador and the American women attached to the Embassy. The party was held in the American Embassy garden where Persian rugs were spread over the lawns. The tables were beautiful and abundantly laden with American food. Each American delegate was assigned an American woman attached to the Embassy as hostess. Mrs. Preston Cannady, the wife of Colonel Cannady, Chief of the Iranian Gendarme Mission, was hostess for President Spafford and President Jacobsen. She proved a blessing to us— generous in providing a car and driver for our convenience, entertaining us a number of times in her spacious and beautiful home, advising us regarding food and water, and showing countless other considerations. A _ Protestant herself, she took us to the Protestant Church on the Sabbath (Sunday). Later, she located for us, through the Catholic priest, a branch of our Church, which gave us the opportunity to attend sacrament meeting and to meet with Relief Society and MIA sisters. This was a great joy to us. One especially interesting experience came during the conference when an Iranian woman, Mrs. Hadjar Tarbiat, a member of the Parliament, privately told Sister Spafford of her efforts on behalf of unveiling Iranian women and later in achieving suffrage for them. She said she did considerable research on the sub- 652 ject of suffrage. In her research she read of the activities of Utah women (Mormon) in obtaining national suffrage in the United States. She gave Sister Spafford her card and urged that they communicate with one another in the interest of the proper use of the franchise. It is impressive to contemplate the power inherent in the conference through its connection with so many important organizations of women of the world. Participation was a great experience for Sister Jacobsen and Sister Spafford. Our trip was made more pleasurable and profitable through our visits en route home to the Southern Far East, the Korean, and also the Northern Far East Missions. We had opportunity to meet with the Relief Society and MIA leaders located conveniently near the meeting places in Hong Kong, Taipei, Korea, Tokyo, and Manila. We attended Sunday School in Taipei in a beautiful and comfortable new meetinghouse. We also attended a district quarterly conference in a beautiful new meetinghouse in Manila. Generally speaking, we found the Relief Society and MIA functioning well. We were pleased with the good quality leadership of these two auxiliaries. We had a number of choice and deeply moving personal experiences, which bore witness to the fact that the Lord is watching over his work in these faraway lands; that his protective care was about us, and that the gospel and what it does for the individual who accepts and lives it, is the greatest miracle on the face of the earth today. Korean Mission Relief Society District Board | Beaill (Korea) May 30, 1966 Seated, left to right: Sister Lee; Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford; Shirley Palmer; President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association; Louise Roos; Sister Kim. Standing, left to right: Sisters Choi, Pak, Kim, Chung, Chung, Kim. Ape UN yp»: =A -~ | 7 « a. - My ~~ | a.. 7 &. Tlhaereananti Southern Far os Mission, wo (Philippine Islands) Branch Bazaar May 28, 1966 Left to right: Aida Huliganga; Susana Hiyon; Ceil Jenson; Wilma Galimba; = ee a J GSawiane iy Tuesita Colar Gams Nt a —— del a ' Hes, of Northern Far East Mission, Tokyo (Japan) Branch Relief Society Assembled at the Mission Home, June 2, 1966 Second row, beginning third from the left: President Florence S. Jacobsen of the Young Womens Mutual Improvement Association; Judy N. Komatsu, Supervisor of the women's auxiliaries, Northern Far East Mission; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Toshiko Yanakido, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society. a | « This tured stone 'Has told me what |. Should have While listening in this quiet wood To sounds | have not understood; Fo the stealthy pad of a hunter's feet «On vanished trails. And now we meet Beneath this ancient witness tree That shadowed him, and shelters me. The measured bending of the bow, The zinging as the arrows go Straight and final, the heavy breath Of fallen deer, the gasp of death — | hear — - How could | not have known? 'orest's memory is my own. ae AN 2 Always Be Near Me € Frances C. Yost R ee AN |; Va VG Way,; Yan @ PSEC OS @ Maurine Martin opened her eyes to a perfect morning. But her own day couldn't be perfect, unless she could iron out one great big problem between herself and Con. Tomorrow she wanted to leave for a three-day art convention. That is, she would if Con would give his consent for her to go. She surely wasn't going without his good wishes... And his blessing. Maurine had looked forward to the convention since the first day she had read about it, oh, just months ago. Everything she had done, every article of clothing she had bought or made since then, had been with the idea of the convention in mind. She had even stocked the deep freeze with goodies and main dishes to be used in her absence, even though Con was mighty handy as a cook himself. Con could manage alone, that wasn't the problem. It was simply that he never wanted her to go, to leave him. Maurine's very soul hungered to go to this art center for instruction. She saw herself as a rare painting not yet finished, needing a bold, understanding brush to bring out its three dimensional reality. Attending this art show, these study classes where she would meet other struggling artists, she thought, would be helpful. There she would not only be able to study the finest paintings which would be on exhibit, but some of the finest instructors were scheduled to be there and hold classes. Yes, Maurine thought, she had worked and planned and _ prepared and hoped and dreamed, but she hadn't prepared Con for her going. Maurine folded her arms over her breast in a prayerful attitude as she snuggled under the covers. Her voice whispered, '"Three full days of art study, if only I can go." It had been a restless night for her. When Maurine had mentioned the art convention, a strained silence ensued. Maurine had hoped for a chance to talk things over before the day began; but when sleep came to her toward morning, Con had slipped out without waking her, and no doubt had started his busy day. Con was always busy. Maurine realized: she should have told Con about the art con- 655 SEPTEMBER 1966 vention months ago. She would have, but Con never liked her to leave him, even to see her folks for a few days. When she returned he welcomed her warmly and everything was heavenly until she mentioned going some- ~ place again. So Maurine had dreamed of this art convention and made minute, detailed preparation without bringing up the subject. Yesterday, on Monday, she had finally found courage to mention it. Tomorrow, Wednesday, she would have to leave, if she were going. Con didn't know how important art was to her... Deep inside. Last night when she had brought up the subject of going, Con had been annoyed. He became stoney. Maurine wondered what the day would bring. Well, she must pull herself from the warm bed and meet the day, whatever its problems. The Martin home was attractive. It was the farm home that Con had always known. It was a good farm, and, since Con was an only child and his father and mother were both dead, it belonged to them entirely.... No mortgages, no debts. They had much to be thankful for, and they still had their youth, and the hopes of a family of their own. Maurine slipped on a pretty housedress, primped a little in front of the mirror, and went to the kitchen. The old farm kitchen resembled a cheery Currier and Ives print, fragrant and wholesome. Maurine started making French toast. Con especially liked her French toast. Someone 656 had said the way to a man's heart was through his stomach. A person could try. But Maurine was rather certain it would take more than food to break through Con's cocoon of silence. "Maurine glanced out of the window. Con was coming toward the house swinging the milk buckets, but he wasn't whistling as he usually did. She went to the back door and held it open for him. "Good morning, Con darling." Maurine smiled with affection. Con washed and sat down at his place. Usually he showed her the courtesy of holding her chair for her. "How is everything outside this beautiful morning?" No reply. "Any new little calves?" she asked with sparkling eye transmittance. No contact. "No." Con's eyes reflected the sour grapefruit before him. "T made French toast!" "Didn't need to put yourself out."' Mournful facial expression. "Why no trouble at all. I simply love to cook for you," she said with a wasted smile. "Are you plowing today?" with deepest interest. "No. Planting." Sulkiness darkened the depths of his eyes. "Then you'll be really hungry at dinnertime. What would you like?" "Too busy to stop," he mumbled. "Then I'll bring lunch to the field!'"' Her voice was helpful. "Don't bother. Too busy to stop to eat." Con took his hat from the hanger behind the door and was gone. Maurine stood in the doorway and watched until he mounted his tractor and rode off. Arms akimbo, she muttered to the great outdoors in general: '"What does one do when a man just won't communicate?"' Maurine did the dishes and made the bed, and tidied up in general. Since she had neither a chick nor a child to wait upon, and since she had planned her going away step by step for weeks, her housework was completely caught up. Why, there wasn't a speck of dust to be seen. Her clothes were ready to pack, but she didn't plan on doing that until she had the "go" sign from Con. Why did men... Her special man, make life complicated for her? Maurine tried to settle herself to knitting a sweater she was ALWAYS BE NEAR ME making as a surprise for Con, but the hours straggled on, instead of lilting as they usually did. As she sat in the tiny genuine Early American rocker that had been Con's mother's when he was a baby, she wondered what the older Mrs. Martin was like. Con's mother had died when he was just a slip of a boy, Con had said. Con had been reared by his father. He had taken him out in the winter to feed the cattle, and night and morning to milk the cows. He had taught him manners, saw to it that he had a fine education. Con had learned 'how to do household tasks as well as farm tasks. There wasn't anything Con couldn't whip up in the kitchen, if he decided to do so. Then why was he so balky about her going away for a few days? Maurine glanced at the quaint china closet with the Bavarian china service with gilt rms and faded rosebuds. Con said he had a vague recollection of his father saying it had been a wedding present, but they had never used the dishes. Maurine walked across to the china closet and turned the key and opened the glass door. She brushed her finger across a fine teacup. There was a film of dust that she hadn't noticed before. The china closet was supposed to be dust-proof. Even though the house was shining clean, this china closet needed a bit of tidying. Carefully Maurine lifted the china out of the closet, piece by piece, shelf by shelf. She polished each piece carefully. It was as she moved a large platter at the back that she found the picture. There was no mistaking it. It was a picture 657 SEPTEMBER 1966 of Con's parents. No doubt it was their wedding picture, for his mother wore a lovely white satin dress, and held a single rose. Had someone deliberately hidden this picture? She must talk to Con. It should be framed and hung out to be enjoyed, instead of hidden away behind the china platter like this. Had Con hidden the picture? Or had his father? Could it be that this house, the whole house was too humanly vacant, too lonesome for Con to bear when she was gone? Was Con too much of a man even to mention it? No wonder he was always unhappy at her leaving. Time like a weaver's shuttle had woven the morning into past tapestry. She must hurry and prepare the finest hot lunch that could possibly be carried to the field. Con, too busy to stop working, would, nevertheless, be hungry as a wolf. Maurine hurried like a nimble little housewife should at eleven-thirty on a week morning. "T brought a hot dinner," Maurine announced, when Con stopped the tractor. "Good girl! I'm hungry as a hungry miner." "T brought the card table and folding chairs." "Tl help you get them. We can set them up here in the shade of the tractor." Maurine saw the change in Con. Had he come to an understanding of her as he worked in the field, as she had come to a clearer understanding of him as she had cleaned out the dear old china closet? For some time they sat in 658 silence enjoying the food Maurine had carefully prepared. Then Con spoke: "Maurine, last night you mentioned some sort of art convention. What was it, a three-day course that you wanted to take? I believe you said it started Thursday morning and finished off sometime Saturday?" "Yes, I did mention it, Con." Maurine studied his face. Con was a handsome man, even with the dirt of the day upon him... His lean brown face under thick waves of dark, unruly hair. He had won his callouses as an honest, hard-working farmer and enjoyed the fruits of his labor. "You mentioned going on the bus tomorrow, so that you would be there for classes Thursday morning." "Yes, I did, Con." "Well by nightfall, working as I have, I can have the spring planting all done. Would you like me to drive you into the city?" "Why, Con, that would be wonderful!" "There's a stock show I'd kind of like to take in." They laughed together heartily. "Maurine, I did a lot of thinking this morning. I believe I planted all my sulkiness under this deep loam, and I'm sure it's too cussed to grow." He laughed. "T've had a lot of attributes of a mule, but I believe, with your patience, I can overcome most of them. Ill try to treat my pretty wife better, be more considerate. But I have to admit the whole place seems like a grave when you are away." Suddenly she realized that Con's hating to have her go was one way of showing his love! Ramona W. Cannon Birgit Nilsson, Swedish soprano, is rated by world-renowned critics as one of the greatest living vocal artists. She has sung in most of the world's famous opera houses, and her roles have included a wide variety of impersonations: Salome; Leonore (in ''Fidelio'); Amelia (in ''Ballo''); Lady Macbeth; Isolde; Brunhilde; Electra (in "Idomeneo"'); Elektra (by Richard Strauss); Elisabeth (in ''Tannhauser''); Agathe (in ''Freischitz''); and many others. She has mastered several languages, and her voice has been described as ''soaring and dramatic, supreme in tone and emotion.'' She has been placed in classification with such artists as Lehmann, Fremstad, Flagstad, and Nordica. Helen Klos, Long Island, New York, is noted for her driving skill and for her high safety record. Each school day she drives a bus with sixty kindergarten children aboard. She insists that all the children sit quietly and keep their hands inside the car or bus. She is careful to adjust her speed to road and weather conditions. "If you are late, you can make it up,'"' she says, ''but if someone is killed or injured, there will be no chance to make it up." Stephanie Sebastian, nineteen, Hollywood, California, is a featured pianist for the New York Philharmonic Young People's concerts, with Leonard Bernstein conducting. Carolyn Sadow, a librarian at the reference desk at the New York Public Library, is enthusiastic over her work in the field of ''facts and knowledge."' She contrasts her present career with her former position in fashion advertising, as a change from a ''make-believe"' world to the challenging realm of reality. The Life of Emily Dickinson, by her brother Austin (Atheneum Press), is a delightful account of the home life and characteristics of a well-loved and much-admired poet, a biography '"'intended for all kinds of intelligent, perceptive people."' Austin's appraisal of his sister is intensified by his consideration of her ''not only as a writer of poetry, but as a speaker of instant poetry." Nancy Larson, formerly of Magna, Utah, is assistant press attaché at the American Embassy in Rome, Italy. In order to improve herself for her position, she studies Italian two hours a day. Before going to Rome, Miss Larson was a White House secretary. Mary Hemingway, formerly a war correspondent in England, is a journalist of wide experience. Having lived in many parts of the world, she has concluded, about her fellow American women, that they are not 'gentle enough.'"' She feels that they would succeed better if they gave their menfolk ''more affection, support, and admiration."". She also feels that all women should become expert cooks. 659 EDITORIAL Volume 53 September 1966 Number 9 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner trene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Development @ At the organization of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith said, ''... It is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms." Some Latter-day Saint women looking at the work of Relief Society decide, ''I'll not join Relief Society for they expect too much of the members."' It is true that membership in Relief Society, whose motto is ''Charity never faileth,'' does impose on all members a dedication to service. Wise is the woman who joins Relief Society joyfully, who has accepted the obligations and is prepared to perform the duties requested of her, whether it be calling on sisters in the homes as a visiting teacher, comforting the sorrowing and assisting at funerals, accompanying someone to the doctor's office, caring for children whose mother is sick or hospitalized, serving in the Relief Society nursery, cooking, or decorating tables, washing dishes, visiting the sick and homebound, sitting up at night with the sick, sewing for a | Through Service | bazaar, demonstrating teaching a skill she may possess, singing in a Singing Mothers chorus, canning or sewing for Welfare, or teaching a class. These and other duties come to members as directed by the Relief Society president. They all involve work, some of it hard work, some wearisome. Some duties tax the abilities of the giver and cause her to go beyond herself. But after the work come the blessings. A warm glow of satisfaction for the work accomplished, a deepened awareness of the viewpoint or even suffering of others, a fulfilling of the need of another. Greater understanding leads within the door of wisdom. The grand key words for the Society to act upon, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, are, ''Said Jesus, Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'' Can one imagine any service which the Lord, who gave his life for man, would refuse to give — the Savior who said ''... Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant'' (Matt. 20:26)? Experience teaches that the best way for a woman to overcome her own sorrows and trials is to turn her attention to one less fortunate, to serve others. Service brings healing to the heavy heart. The sympathies which God has planted in his daughters' bosoms are enlarged through serving the organization which the Lord has given to his daughters. Sympathy expressed in a tangible way buoys up the spirit of the giver. Each unselfish service, each comforting assurance, each labor of love to lighten the load of the unfortunate, distressed, sorrowing, needy, the disheartened, strengthens character and raises a bulwark and a safeguard against sins so prevalent in the worid today — sins of indifference, insensitivity, callousness, and selfishness. Consecration to service brings personal growth and refines, develops, and nourishes the soul of a woman. —M. C. S. 661 NA ~ (NY VISUAL AIDS—SPIRITUAL LIVING COURSE A picture kit has been prepared to correlate with the Spiritual Living lessons at a cost of $1.25 postpaid (not air mail). Orders are to be placed direct with the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110. CULTURAL REFINEMENT TEXTBOOK AND AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS A one-year textbook, Out of the Best Books, Volume II: ''Love, Marriage, and the Family,'' by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas is now available for use with the Cultural Refinement course. Orders for the textbook should be placed direct with the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, and will be filled as soon after the first of September as possible. The price of the textbook is $2.95 postpaid. (not air mail) A kit (containing four colored pictures 11" x 14') and a 33-¥% LP record, which will contain musical selections that correlate with the Cultural Refinement course, are available for purchase at the Division of Communications Services, 291 HRCB, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84601. The combined price for the picture kit and the record is $3.50 postpaid. (See advertisement on page 718 of this magazine.) ERRATA—ERRORS IN PERCENTAGES—MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1966 Through an oversight, subscriptions for Middleton Ward, Nampa Stake, were omitted in total for the stake. Subscriptions should have been 1,000, with 980 members, resulting in 102% instead of 96%. This would place them with the ten stakes with the highest number of subscriptions. Also, Melbourne Stake (Australia) was erroneously listed with 72%, and it should have been 87%. Also Juarez Stake should have been listed as 100% instead of 74%. 662 Chapter 3 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle asking her to fly home at once, due to an emergency in the family. Her friend Betz Condon goes with her. While traveling, they meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. During a brief stopover in Fiji, they are introduced to Dan Fargo, an engineer, and friend of Grandfather Ridgehaven. Mr. Fargo goes with them to Sydney, and Julie learns that her fiance Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. @ The big airplane circled over Sydney Harbor preparing to land at Kingsford Smith Aerodrome, five miles to the south. "Oh, look!" Betz exclaimed. "Tt's like San Francisco, with all those ships and beaches!" "More magnificent," Big Dan said. "The water is a brighter blue. Notice those two craggy cliffs that let the ocean in. And those beaches have hard white sand, like crystal. There's only one bridge across our harbor. We Rosa Lee Lloyd call it old Coathanger's Bridge. And we have a whole fleet of ferries to take our people back and forth. Magnificent!" he repeated, looking at Betz. "If this is your first glimpse of the eastern part of Australia you must be awe-struck." "T am," Betz said. "As you say, it is magnificent." He turned to Julie. "Look below," he said. "Let pride in your home lift your heart. Your grandfather's house is out there to the left on Rushcutter's Bay. What a poetic spot that is. Many tourists compare it to the Riviera, but..." "But you think it's grander," Betz cut in, laughing. "T do!" Big Dan nodded. "And so do I," Carolyn agreed. "This is our home," Julie murmured. "Forgive us, Betz, if we brag a little. Big Dan, that ultra modern structure. Down there must be our new Opera House. It looks different from up here." 663 SEPTEMBER 1966 "It is,' Carolyn chimed in. "They say it is the largest cultural building in the world." They circled the harbor again, then flew to the south and landed gently at the aerodrome on scheduled time. "Remind me to compliment that pilot,' Big Dan said to Carolyn as they walked down the steps and out across the tarmac toward the gate where people were waiting to greet passengers. Julie was weak and sick at heart. Her feet dragged and her eyes stung with tears. How could she greet them? What could she say? Sue saw Grandfather _ first, head and shoulders above the crowd, even though he was very elderly. Then she saw Aunt Isabelle beside him, so pale and thin she hardly recognized her. Oh, Aunt Isabelle, her heart cried silently, what has happened to you? Uncle Geoffrey and Wally stood with Aunt Tricia between them. Uncle John and Aunt Cleo were there, too, with Brown and Kip. Aunt Cleo was_ holding Brown's hand, and Kip was high on Uncle John's shoulder. Tenderly, feeling his wrinkled cheek against her own. He held her tenderly for a long moment without speaking. "My child," he said at last in his fine old English. "I can see that Big Dan has told you about Ron. We are all here, ready to help." "Julie...." Aunt Isabelle touched her shoulder. Her head was high but her voice was tight and her breathing was labored. Little Brown said in his piping voice: ''We've made a special treat. Big secret. Something you will like." "Oh, you darlings!" Julie bent to kiss him, and when she stood up again Uncle John gave her a good hard squeeze. "We'll have to fatten you up," he said. Julie noticed Aunt Cleo's hair was brilliant yellow again, but she told her how pretty she was, anyway. Then she was in Aunt Tricia's sweet motherly arms and Uncle Geoffrey was patting her shoulder. Wally, standing close by, said: "Hi! Monkey Face." "Hello, Redhead!" Julie answered. Then she turned to Betz, Carolyn, and Big Dan. Julie's heart lifted in spite of "< 'This is my family," she said her grief about Ron. This was her family. These were her dear ones who shared her worry and heartbreak, and who stood willing and ready to go with her through any hardship to bring Ron home again. She looked from one dear face to another. She saw the love and compassion in their eyes. Then she ran through the gate with outstretched arms to meet them. "Grandfather," she whispered 664 proudly. "Even this punk redhead is my own cousin. And these are my dear friends—Carolyn Bridges from Perth, and my roommate Betz Condon. You all know Big Dan." A flicker of apprehension came to Aunt Isabelle's eyes when she saw Carolyn. But why? Julie wondered. Aunt Isabelle had never been afraid of anything or | anybody. Grandfather's eyebrows lifted quizzically as he looked at Betz. "Betz will be our guest," Julie said candidly, deciding that it was best to tell them at once. Aunt Isabelle's eyes widened in surprise, but Grandfather said in his grand old manner, bowing slightly: "Welcome, Miss Condon. Thank you for coming with our Julie." Betz answered, smiling: "Julie has told me so much about each one of you I feel that I know you all. So please call me Betz." "Fair enough," Wally said. "Dinner is at our house," Aunt Cleo said brightly. "Big surprise,' Brown chanted again. "Mummy made cream sponge cake 'cause Julie's here." "Will you ride with us?" Aunt Tricia asked Betz. Julie sighed with relief. Aunt Tricia always knew just what to do to make anyone feel welcome. "I'd love to," Betz answered. "This way," Wally said, taking her arm. "The family chariot is parked a block away." GRANDFATHER and Big Dan sat in the back seat of the Ridgehaven car. Julie sat in front with Aunt Isabelle, who drove. It is strange, Julie thought as they started through the heavy traffic, how good it is to be back. Busy with the traffic, it was understandable that Aunt Isabelle would be silent on the way to Uncle John's and Aunt Cleo's house. She didn't speak at dinner and ate very little. Julie wondered if she were very angry because she had brought Betz at this time. But that isn't like Aunt Isabelle, Julie thought, with a nagging worry. Aunt Isabelle isn't herself at all. TELL ME OF LOVE Aunt Cleo, in her generous, good-hearted way, had cooked everyone's favorite dish, whether or not they went together. There was a beautiful cream sponge, because Julie liked it; Grandfathers' favorite roast beef, mashed potatoes and gravy, and Yorkshire pudding; Wally's favorite sweet apple dumplings and cream, and then fresh fruit to finish off. Betz looked at Julie when she saw the two desserts, but Julie shook her head before she could say anything that might hurt Aunt Cleo. Just for this one time, Betz could forget her figure was a size ten. After her second mouthful, Betz whispered to Julie: "I've had enough starch to stiffen my spine!" "IT know," Julie whispered back. "But this is Aunt Cleo's © way of showing that she loves us." When dinner was over, Grandfather asked everyone to join him in the living room. He was a man of action, and plans were already being carried out in the search for Ron. "Search parties from Perth have been on the job for three days," he explained. "But the Ridgehavens will have their own search party. Julie, I know you remember that it was your Aunt Isabelle who found you and Ron years ago after the fire, when all others had given up the search. Women, sometimes, have a sixth sense concerning their loved ones. Some call it intuition. Your Grannie called it love. Ron belongs to us. We will never give up until we find him." He paused for a moment, and 665 SEPTEMBER 1966 Julie noticed, for the first time, that his hand trembled as he touched his forehead with his handkerchief. A moment later he went on in his clear, steady voice: "I wish I could go with you, but Dr. Longworth says I would only be a liability to you at my age. Brown and Kip would be liabilities, too, for the same reason. So they will stay here with me. Aunt Tricia will come to my house and take care of us. The rest of you will fly to our station in Conderra in the morning. I have contacted Dr. George McGregor to meet the plane at the aerodrome twenty miles from the property." There was silence. Everyone looked at Aunt Isabelle, who sat like a statue as though she would break in two if she moved. Her hands were clenched in her lap, and her dark eyes were too big for her pale face. She seemed too shocked to speak or make any sign of protest. Julie's heart reached out to her. Surely Grandfather could see she was not able to go with them and live outback at a station where you had to haul your own water and kill most of the food you ate. Had Grandfather's eyes become so dim he could not see clearly? Julie saw the look that passed between Uncle John, and Uncle Geoffrey, but, as usual, they did not openly question Grandfather's wisdom. Betz was seated beside Julie. Now Grandfather looked at her. His brows drew together, quizzically. "You must make your own decision," he said. "You are welcome to go, but it will not be a pleasure trip. The women will 666 stay at the station house and do the cooking for the searchers. There is no plumbing, and you will have to help with the scrubbing and the washing and sleep on a bunk. But you look well enough to help out. The Amer- - icans I have known have never lacked for courage." Julie held her breath as she watched the conflicting emotions in Betz' face. This was a chance for her to see a part of the world she didn't know existed. But she had made such a fuss over a few ant bites, how would she hold up in the bush? Betz wet her lips as she looked from one person to another, seeking her answer. She ran her fingers through her blond hair and took a deep breath. "I'm sort of a sissy," she said at last. "Julie called me a baby on Fiji—but I want to go. I want to help Julie—all I can. That's what I came for—really. I want to go." "A very good girl!" Grandfather beamed at her. Wally was looking at Betz with his red head tipped to one side, sizing her up. He leaned over and pulled a blond curl at the back of her head. "Ouch!" she yelled, jumping to her feet. "Just testing," he laughed. Big Dan called out: "We'll get even with him, Betz." Grandfather motioned for them to kneel beside their chairs, and all were reverently quiet as his low, cultured voice asked Heavenly Father for his guidance and protection on their journey into the outback in search of Ron. Back in her own bed in Grand- father's house, Julie lay staring into the darkness. Aunt Isabelle had seemed to revive after Grandfather's prayer. Her eyes were brighter, and a slight color had come into her cheeks. She talked a little about the properties on the way home and was gracious to Betz when she took her to the guest room. The moonlight made lacy patterns on the wall and a spring breeze whispered through the branches of the big white-trunked gum tree that she remembered so well. Julie loved everything about this old home with its nineteenth century architecture and elegant period furniture that her grandparents had _ brought from England sixty years ago, when they decided to make Australia their home. She could not sleep. The house was full of memories. She and Ron had grown up here; they had gone to school together and played together; and last year in the garden where the big gum tree grew, they realized they loved each other and wanted to marry. The family had always gathered here throughout the years, on every occasion, weddings, birthdays, and always on Christmas. Grannie had been the most gracious hostess in Sydney, and everyone, rich or poor, loved her. Oh, Grannie, Julie whispered in tender yearning, we need you so. We all need you. Julie had never gone to bed in her growing-up years, without first going to Grannie's room for her goodnight kiss and kindly word of cheer. All the family did this, and no matter what time of night it was, Grannie seemed to TELL ME OF LOVE be waiting for them. Grandfather had kept her room just as she had left it five years ago. Julie wanted to go there now. Looking at Grannie's old four-poster bed and her dressing table and that quaint old chest of drawers would be a comfort. Dear, familiar things might ease her heartache. She stepped into her slippers, pulling her robe over her shoulders. Her feet made no sound as she tiptoed down the hallway. Halfway down, she opened the door to Ron's room; his tennis racket was still in the corner beside his desk, his cricket pennant was on the wall above it. There was the picture of the team that had won honors for Australia. Ron was tall, and his dark hair made him look even taller than the other boys. Wally was in the picture, too, grinning wickedly. Wally was such a cut-up, no one was ever quite sure what Wally would do next. 667 SEPTEMBER 1966 There was a blank space above Ron's desk where her own picture had been. That had gone with him to Perth. Her throat pinched in and she knelt down beside his bed asking Heavenly Father, in her own humble way, to guide her to Ron again. There was nothing she wouldn't do for Ron, no sacrifice she wouldn't make, she promised faithfully. She wept silently and alone for her love. She arose, feeling relieved, and went on down the hallway to Grannie's front bedroom. She had stepped inside before she realized she was not alone. Someone was in the chair by her bed. She could see the figure in the moonlight coming through the window. It was Aunt Isabelle. "Come in, dear," she said. "I guess—I've been halfway expecting you—sooner or later.' Julie sat down on the stool and held Aunt Isabelle's hand in both her own. "Aunt Isabelle,' her voice caught. "It's—so good to be home. Even with all the heartbreak about Ron, I still have a joy about being here I can't quite explain. Peace and memories all blend together. I guess—it's just being home." "T understand,' Aunt Isabelle murmured. "I'm so glad you're home, Julie. I didn't want you to go to the United States, but, of course, I could not interfere with Father's plans." "Yes, I know," Julie agreed. "Grandfather always has a reason for what he does. He wanted me to see something of the outside world." Her voice trailed off. Silence hung between them. She wanted to say that this time no one understood why he was sending Aunt Isabelle to the ranch with them in the morning. But she did not speak. "Julie..." Aunt Isabelle drew a long quivering breath. "I've wanted to tell—I should have told you before. But the time has come. Now you must know." Hardly daring to breathe, Julie listened while Aunt Isabelle told her why she had not married Dr. George McGregor a long time ago. (To be continued) FIRST DAY AT SCHOOL Mabel Jones Gabbott Now her hands that loved her doll Reach for learning, and she looks With eager pleasure at the shelf And carefully selects her books. His hands, that baited worms on hooks, That lightly curved around a ball, Now must grapple with a pen To trace the letters short or tall. Be patient, teacher, guide these hands To want the feel of book and pen, To understand the worth of words, Their power and their beauty... Then World-wide doors of wonder and joy Will open to this girl and boy. 668 Latter-day Saint Chapel on Punch Bowl Boulevard Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii This chapel, one of the earliest meetinghouses in the islands, was built of lumber imported from the mainland. The designer and architect was missionary Matthew Noall, who also did much of the actual work of building the structure, which was dedicated April 29, 1888. The small building at the right originally occupied the site of the chapel, but it was moved to one side and became the mission home. Both buildings have been torn down. King Kalakaua and Queen Kapiolani attended the dedication of the building, and the Queen addressed _ the saints and visitors present. Ms — Claire Noall w Hawaii, the fiftieth State of the United States, more than two thousand miles westward across the Pacific Ocean from the mainland, is the longest island chain in the world. More than twenty-four islands comprise the group, and eight of these are major islands called the Leeward group. The islands, all of them volcanic in origin, form a sort of crescent, with Kauai at the northwest and Hawaii, the largest island, at the southeast. 669 SEPTEMBER 1966 Honolulu, the capital city, 102 miles by plane from Kauai, borders a magnificent harbor area on the southwest coast of Oahu. Near Laie, on the northeast end of Oahu, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has erected the beautiful Hawaiian Temple and established the Polynesian Cultural Center and the Church College. In 1850, ten elders, who were temporarily working as missionaries in California, were called to "open'' a mission in Hawaii, then known as the Sandwich Islands. Hiram Clark was designated as the mission president, and with him were Henry W. Bigler, Thomas Morris, John Dixon, William Farrer, James Hawkins, James Keeler, Thomas Whittle, Hiram Blackwell, and George Q. Cannon. The missionaries arrived in Honolulu Harbor on December 12th, after a voyage of twenty days from San Francisco. The next day they built an altar of stones on "Punch Bowl Hill," and dedicated the islands to the preaching of the restored gospel. The first baptism was performed on February 10, 1851, when Elder Clark baptized a boy about sixteen years of age. Other baptisms followed, performed principally by Elder Cannon on the island of Maui. The first branch of the Church in the islands was organized at Kealakou, Maui, August 6, 1851. The Book of Mormon was translated into the Hawaiian language, in 1854, by Elder Cannon, assisted by several educated Hawaiians. The Church has progressed and grown rapidly in the islands. Today, there are three stakes on Oahu: Honolulu, Oahu, and Pearl Harbor, as well as many active and growing branches in the Hawaii Mission. My husband Matthew had long wished to bring me to these islands where he had spent his childhood as the son of a Latter-day Saint mission president. Finally, in January 1966, we stood at the crater's edge at Haleakala, on the island of Maui. MAUI Up, up, through nearly ten thousand feet of altitude, we had driven from the shore with our guide. As we passed beneath the blue sky and against the white cloud forming in the crater, a page of history appeared before our eyes. We remembered the account of the missionary travels which Matthew's father had written in his memoirs. He and his companion had climbed up through the giant fern forests above Hana to the opposite side of the crater, each one taking a turn at riding the mule while the other walked, a distance of thirty miles. As they reached the highest point of the rim— opposite the place where I stood—they were suddenly engulfed by dense fog, below, above, and around them. A wrong step forward could plunge them nearly 2,000 feet into the extinct crater. A blind step to either side or backward might hurtle them down the mountain they had climbed. They dared not move; they prayed; and, finally, the fog lifted. Haleakala is wedded to another volcano (Hanakauhi) by a narrow isthmus of land. Lower and older, the second peak forms the western end of the island. As on the moist side of Haleakala, whose 670 NIIHAU Fl _ OAHU aie WAH KAAAWA a HONOLULU Vo Cau Ss" Lan Eien ZAIN, so — $ "Oy; JONOKAA © O precipitous green face is deeply grooved and wooded, the eastern slopes of the western range are luxuriously green. A core of a former cone, Iao Needle, rises 2,250 feet above the valley floor. We left the isthmus to drive along the coast toward the drier side of Maui, only to find long hedges of bougainvillaea, like a glorious rainbow, defying drought. On the sands of the inn where we stayed, the breeze was never softer, the sun more radiant, or the sea a lovelier shade of deep green-blue. For, although the trade winds dry the islands, the cool currents from the Behring Sea modify the temperature and promote the growth of tropical vegetation. We took the trolley from the inn to Lahaina, a city which once was the residence of King Kamehameha I and the center of vast mid-Pacific whaling activities. Here, too, we found flowers at our feet and rainbows in the sky. HAWAII From Maui we flew to the island of Hawaii (the Big Island)— land of contrast, home of five major volcanoes and many lesser ones. After visiting exotic orchid nurseries on Hilo Bay, we arrived at Kilauea's bleak crater—a mere half hour's distance away by car. Anciently, this volcano's 4,000 foot summit collapsed to form a twoand-one-half mile wide pit that now receives flow after flow of molten lava. At times, one of its craters surfaces glowing red, then again sinks from sight and becomes crusted until the fire once more breaks forth. In the 1950's, millions of cubic feet of lava were added to the pit. Kilauea's Puna Rift erupted in 1955 from a long fissure over canefields and forests. In 1959, red fountains sprang 1,900 feet into the air from Kilauea Iki, just east of Kilauea's crater, leaving a forest of ghostly tree trunks upright in a stone floor. Mauna Loa's crater stands at 13,680 feet above sea level. In 1950, it sent a stream of molten lava to the sea in less than three hours. On the Kona Coast, almost directly west of Hilo, on the opposite side of the Big Island, we found a second series of black sand beaches. When hot lava meets the sea it bursts like black popcorn and is, eventually, reduced to finely cindered sand. From jet-colored rock, the ancient City of Refuge found the stone for its walls. HAWAII 671 SEPTEMBER 1966 KAUAI Kauai, the oldest of all the islands, is rightfully called the Garden Isle. At the inn near Niumalu, on the east coast, which was once the home of Queen Deborah, we found her drift of lagoons shot newly into bloom with pink, orchid, and white water lilies, or lotus flowers. The lagoons were once Queen Deborah's fishponds. When some missionaries from New England accompanied her young son from Boston to Kauai, in the 1820's, she welcomed the Yankees and fed them with delicious fish from the ponds. She learned English and joined the Christian Church. Nevertheless, some of the ancient customs still prevailed. Today, the inn situated on these lagoons, circumvents commercialism and preserves some of the royal rites. Among Kauai's volcanic summits rises the wettest spot on earth. Here nearly five hundred inches of rain fall during the year. The Wailua River drains this moisture; and, near the stream's mouth, where Deborah's inn is located, the sea flows pale green over coral reefs, breaking into a complex pattern of white foam. Everywhere on the Kauai coastline the surf knits intricate patterns. On the day I drove around to the beaches of the Wet and Dry Caves, the water was so intensely blue and the pools were reflecting so alluringly the overhanging green shrubbery at the mouths of the rivers, that I saw at once where the scenes of a motion picture, filmed in this area, had been shot. Soon I saw against the sky a needle rising from another mile-deep canyon. And in this area we found one of the most beautiful of Hawaii's inns. OAHU At last Matthew and I were ready for our visit to Oahu. Matthew was only two years old when his parents returned to the islands for their second mission. In Honolulu we rented a car to drive to Laie, and as we drove around Diamond Head on our journey, sea and sky seemed to vie with each other for the deepest blue. We stopped at an inn where the hibiscus blooms shone nearly twelve inches in diameter. The "flowers of the sea" also held our attention—blowholes funneling and spouting white water nearly one hundred feet in their churning leap. But up the coast near the northwest corner of the island, from what was once a dry stretch of beach land, Laie beckoned. The changes created by the Church are breathtaking. Instead of drought, we found the Polynesian Village with its canals and canoes, and its young men and women from the far-flung stakes and missions of the South Pacific. We found the College of Hawaii and the glory of the temple in its semi-wreath of fountains. Hardly less magnificent than the temple, the tabernacle in Honolulu represents the architectural progress of the Church in its promise for the spiritual way of life. Back in Honolulu, Matthew breathed a nostalgic sigh for the tiny church on Punch Bowl Boulevard, now gone, that his father had built. Almost within the shadow of the royal palace, the Latter-day Saints once owned a piece of land. Matthew and his wife Libbie Noall had paid a visit to 672 Transparencies by the author Crater cones inside a large crater, Haleakala National Park, Maui. City of Refuge. National Historical Park Near Honaunau, Hawaii. AG. TAN "Little Grand Canyon" Latter-day Saint Tabernacle, Wailua River—Waimea Canyon, Kaui Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii Latter-day Saint Temple at Laie, Oahu, Hawai HAWAII King Kalakaua and his Queen. Kapiolani in the Lalani Palace. At the time of the dedication of the chapel, the Queen addressed the people. Through the presence of royalty and representatives of the work of the early missionaries, the little church became a truly historic spot. Libbie sent several accounts of her missionary labors to the Woman's Exponent (published by Latter-day Saint women in Salt Lake City, Utah, U. S. A.). We quote a few lines from her 1887 report: The Lord has said He remembereth the isles of the sea.... On this island, Oahu, there are four large branches of the Relief Society, among whom I have been laboring since our last April conference, endeavoring, as much as my knowledge of the language would permit, to exhort them to obedience in observing the counsel given by the servants of the Lord, and becoming live laborers in the building up of his Kingdom here upon the earth.... (Libbie Noall, Laie, Oahu, July 15, 1887, from the Woman's Exponent, August 15, 1887, page 48). And so it was that our visit to the State of Hawaii was concluded in a spirit of love for the friendly Hawaiian people, and of joy in simply being on the Islands of Flowers for a little while, this blessed, happy place. On every hand, simply in passing, we had met native Hawaiians proud to be numbered as members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Wiliwili Blossoms Bougainvillaea Cypripedium Orchid 675 Canal at Polynesian Village, Polynesian Cultural Center, Laie, Oahu, Hawaii Mosaic at the Church College of Hawaii representing President David O. McKay welcoming the ¥ outh of Tey lands: Courtesy Church Information Bureau ai ae Pe FL Al &e Design and Creative Craft by Carolyn Durham Peters Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts The lines of ancestry which have been woven together to make a Latter-day Saint family pattern are represented graphically in this significant pattern. The basic background material is dark green burlap thirty-eight inches long and twenty-four inches wide. One inch is used for a hem at the bottom of the tapestry, and two inches for turning under at the top for inserting a dowel rod so that the tapestry can be hung upon the wall of the home library or the family room. Threads are removed on the sides of the burlap to make a threefourths inch fringe, and the threads so removed are braided together to make the hanging cord which is attached to the dowel rod. The symbolic motifs- (flowers, Viking ship, and coat of arms) are cut from felt and attached to the burlap by a zigzag machine stitch. In this particular family design, the Viking ship (upper right) represents the Norwegian (Widtsoe) and the Danish (Madsen) lines of ancestry; the coats of arms are symbolic of the Wallace and Durham (British) families. The colorful bouquet exemplifies the States where members of the family were born: the sego lily for Utah; the golden poppy for California; and the dogwood for Missouri. The mottos in the insignia (lower left) weave historic heraldry into modern aims and ideals: Eureka ("I have found it" for California); Industry (for Utah); and salus populi suprema lex ("Let the Welfare of the People Be the Supreme Law'') for Missouri. The equal sign combines the mottos and points them to the family name of MADSEN. Variations of this significant and beautiful design could be made to represent any family, and the pride of heritage and interest in tracing lines of ancestry can be greatly enhanced when the family members can see, graphically placed before them, a representation of the treasured weaving of many honored threads that make a family tapestry. 677 £ Oi Myrene T. Alvord, East Phoenix Stake Homemaking Leader, pictured with her original designs of organdy poppies and an arrangement of crystal leaves and sprigs of smaller flowers. Sister Alvord's dress is a hand-screened cotton print which she designed and sewed. Note the quilted design on the bodice. Seen also is Sister Alvord's small Crystal Arrangement of dainty rosebuds (cloth) resin dipped, placed artfully in a goblet with small crystal leaves and tiny sprigs of plastic flowers. Organdy Poppies Cutting the petals. The poppies are cut from cotton organdy in separate petals, in any size desired. The pattern shown in the diagram (in reduced size) requires four or five petals cut 5 inches across at the widest part of the petal and 5 inches deep from the base of the petal to its top point. For the outside of the flower, 7 or 8 larger petals are needed. These are cut about 44 inch Jarger than the center petals all the way around. For an attractive arrangement, use only a few of the larger poppies (in the size described above), and make a number of flowers in smaller sizes and with fewer petals. Several buds in a floral arrangement also add to its attractiveness.(Continued on p.691) 678 East Phoenix Stake (Arizona) Lois S. Tanner, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society Formal Arrangment of Flowers Double cups of simple egg carton flowers are dipped in pale blue cold water paint and edged with gold. The frosty beaded stamens and delicate leaves and flowers are wired together in a tall and elegant arrangement. Floral tape covers the stems and the places where the flowers, leaves, and stems are attached. The ornate antiqued vase accenting this arrangement is made from a glass bottle. Cover with cold water paint in a color darker than that desired for the finished vase. Don't be afraid to leave brush strokes. Apply as many coats of paint as may be needed thoroughly to cover the bottle, allowing each coat of paint to dry thoroughly, about one day for each coat of paint. From a bottle of gold paint, pour off nearly all the oil, and stir the remainder thoroyghly. Dip a small brush in the gold paint and edge off the surplus paint by pressing the brush against the top of the bottle, and stroke out the wet brush on a soft cloth. When very little gold paint remains in the brush, begin brushing on the edges, ridges, crevices, and round the top of the bottle, working the brush in a horizontal direction, always brushing the bottom edges first. When the complete bottle has been brushed horizontally, repeat the process with perpendicular strokes. Seal with clear, "flat" enamel. To decorate the antiqued vase, use liquid steel or clearseal, both come in tube—no funnel needed. Add beads, pearls, jewels, or small gold chains in scrolls, loops, circles, medallions, or floral designs. Candle Holder Remove rim from open end of can, cut 2 strips of paper about Yo' wide, exactly the length around the can. (Do not overlap.) Divide each strip into 6 or 8 equal parts and mark evenly with a pencil. Scotch tape each strip at bottom and top of can, matching penciled divisions perfectly in line with each other. These are f guidelines for cutting the can f evenly. Following the guidelines through the paper, top and bottom, cut can to bottom. Continue around can. Next, cut top half off of every other section | and, using longnosed pliers, bend down each of the half sections to | form legs for the candle holder. Cut each section into an uneven number of "'slits'' about an inch long (7 to a section makes f a nice design). With long-nosed pliers curl "'slits' for design in graduated curls. Curl all sections in like design. Spray with gold, let dry, and decorate with gold doilies, braid, lace, bows, rhinestones, or jewels. To prevent your candle holder t from tarnishing, paint lightly with coat of treated plastic resin when you are dipping flowers or make special preparations. 679 Creative Handicraft by Myrene T. Alvord BLOSSOMS FOR LASTING BEAUTY SEPTEMBER 1966 Informal Arrangement.... Multi-colored Flowers High and low center egg cartons can become a whole garden bouquet, using manicure scissors, paintpots, and imagination. Low center egg cartons make poppies, and tulips; high centers make daisies, daffodils, lilies, and stocks. For coloring use poster paints or cold water vinyl paint, and plastic leaves for greenery, and stamens. Use white-wire from 'clothes hangers for stems and green florist tape for covering stems. For low center carton flowers, you will use the cup that holds the egg. With cup separated from carton, using manicure scissors, cut a small V in between the 4 corners of the cup. Round or shape petals as desired. For high center carton flowers, you will use the high center rather than the egg cup. Trim edges off, leaving as much carton as possible. Cut down each high center at the corner of center. Round off each petal to desired shape. For daisies, cut slits all the way around the cup about 4" apart and down to the base. Round off ends. Put 3 of these together—graduating each down to center. For daffodils or lilies, do not cut down the corners, but scallop the edge of the cup. For buds on stock or stems of flowers, wrap a piece of cotton in a sheath of toweling, wire at the bottom and tape to the stem. Stocks are made from tiny cup at top of high center of the egg carton. After you have cut out the flowers, paint them with poster, vinyl, or any cold water paint. For variety, outline the edges of some petals with contrasting color or white. These may also be dipped in plastic resin (with catalyst) to make a bright, weatherproof patio table decoration. To assemble, put 2 or 3 cups together (according to flower), alternating petals. Punch hole straight through all bottoms, insert stamen. Place stamen wire along cut white-wire, and wrap with green florist tape. Add plastic leaves along the stem as you wrap the wire. STATURE Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn A minor scratch, a hurt, and the small disgrace Of sudden tears is quickly gone If a five-year-old is bandage glorified When he emerges later on. 680 YOUNG CHILD Christie Lund Coles Child, you have come from him, And in your eyes Lingers the memory of heaven And stormless skies. LITTLE GIRL WITH TWO RABBITS Child, you have come to us— Your smile, your kiss, Holds all of purity For our brief bliss. By Eric M. Sanford O Lord, help us to grow In worthiness; Before this innocence, This guilelessness. Taylorsville Ninth Ward, Taylorsville West Stake (Utah) Photographs by Lucas Visser \, | 3 In picture No. 1, two colorful serapes (blankets or shawls) are hung against the wall in the background. The women (Lois Webb. And Eldora Duncan) are wearing straw (basket) hats. Various colorful toys may be seen in the foreground. The handsome rooster at the right is made of corn, beans, and split peas mounted with glue on a plywood foundation. A mercado (market) is gaily represented in picture No. 2. Note the sign at the left "Confites" (sugar-plums... Dainties). The women are, left to right: Linda Hammond, Joan Jensen, and Molly George. Picture No. 3 shows a display of hand-embroidered pillowcases, with crocheted edgings or hand scallops in solid and buttonhole stitches. The women are Nina Harding and Charlene Ewell. June Barker is president of Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society; Lorna Miles is president of Taylorsville Ninth Ward Relief Society; Barbara Mackelprang was in charge of the handmade articles, and Floy Munk was in charge of games and amusements; the exotic Mexican dinner was planned and directed by Sister Miles, with Maureen Brown as decoration chairman. 682 A Feast Olive W. Burt, Daily the shrimp fleet brings in Transparencies by the Author tts load of delicious sea food. Visitors to Key West, Florida, the southernmost tip of the United States, are often startled to discover the many ways in which the people of this region differ from all other sections of the country. Their language is full of strange new words. Their daily work and leisure activities are closely related to their environment of sea and shore. However, it is the food that sets Key West apart. Because it is so far south, extending into the tropical waters of the Gulf of Mexico and the Straits of Florida, it has access to a great variety of sea food. Daily, the shrimp fleet, the conch boats, the turtle crawls provide fresh sea food unfamiliar to inland tables. Hundreds of small boats bring in grouper and snapper, kingfish, mackerel, scallops, crawfish, bonefish and so on. These may be purchased straight from the boats, or from stalls along the dock. It is this abundance of fresh, tropical sea food that so delights the inland visitor, who is wise to partake of them all, following recipes obtained from the fisherman himself, or from a native cook. But before giving these directions for some unusual piscine dishes, we must consider the piéce de résistance of any Key West meal—the Key lime pie. This is similar to the more common lemon pie. Instead of lemons, however, limes are used and, according to the natives, nothing but Key West limes should be permitted to assist in this delightful concoction. However, I have made the pie with limes from other markets, their origin unknown, and the pie has been very successful. A true Key Wester would not think of desecrating the filling with food coloring, but since the lime juice does not give a distinctive lime color, a drop of green coloring improves the appearance. At least, the coloring shows that this is 'a lime pie, with no need for explanation. Here are some foods that are typically Key West. They can be combined into a wholly sea food meal, but as most inlanders do not care for such a superfluity of fish, any one dish may be singled out and used to add an exotic touch to a regular meal. APPETIZERS: Curried Shrimp Mix all ingredients together. Spread.. All sli f thi bread. Mince separately: one can shrimp (or ——— ae buy the broken shrimp) and 2 hard-boiled eggs Minced Clam 1 tbsp. Minced parsley 1 can minced clam (51% ounces) 1 tbsp. Melted butter 1 pkg. Cream cheese (3 ounces) salt and pepper to taste, dash of 1 small onion, minced fine curry powder salt and pepper to taste enough cream to moisten and Blend well and serve on sesame make adhere. Crackers. 684 Along the dock are stacks of fish. Baked kingfish with broccoli. The famous "Key Lime Pie" ENTREE: _ Baked Kingfish Steak one 1-inch steak per person lime juice corn meal Parmesan cheese, grated butter or margarine Sprinkle each steak with lime juice. Rub well with melted butter. Place in a shallow baking dish and cover with corn meal and grated cheese mixed together. Dot with butter and bake at 350°F for 25 minutes. (If kingfish is unavailable, halibut, salmon, or other fish steaks do very well.) Sea Food Sauce 2 c. Chili sauce 1 ec. Catsup 14, tbsp. Worcester sauce 2 tbsp. Horseradish 2 tbsp. Prepared mustard 1 small can tomato paste (6 oz.) Y% ce. Lime juice Y% c. Minced celery 14 c. Minced green pepper 1 c. Minced clams Combine all ingredients and heat before serving. And now to top off a meal—the Key Lime Pie. 4 eggs 1 can condensed milk (141% ounces) 14 ce. Key lime juice, 2 tsp. Grated lime rind baked pie shell Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of one until thick. Add the condensed milk and beat again. Add lime juice and rind and beat until thick. Beat the remaining egg whites and fold into the above mixture. Pour into baked pie shell and bake in slow oven 15 minutes or until set. Meringue Topping 2 egg whites 4 tbsp. Sugar sprinkle of salt 1 tsp. Lime juice Beat egg whites with rotary beater till stiff, gradually adding sugar and salt until meringue holds a peak. Stir lime juice in very lightly. Spread on pie filling and place in hot oven until lightly browned. Another Key lime pie recipe is made with a meringue pie shell and topped with whipped cream. 685 Courtesy of the Art Institute of Chicago "The Bath" (La Toilette) by Mary Cassatt This painting is to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3—"Humility Yields Strength,' for the fourth meeting in January 1967 (Northern Hemisphere); and May 1967 (Southern Hemisphere). See discussion of painting on pp. 689-690. 686 Sanford Associates THE GARDEN GLOWS IN COLOR Ageratum, dahlias, daisies, and tall chrysanthemums —~ massed for color and designed in harmony. "Wherever a garden is, there shall be a gladness and a singing roundabout.' Courtesy Cedar Rapids Art Center, Cedar Rapids, Iowa "Woman With Plants" by Grant Wood This painting is to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7—"Wisdom Teaches Right," for the fourth meeting in May 1967 (Northern Hemisphere); and September 1967 (Southern Hemisphere). See discussion of painting on page 689. 688 "Woman With Plants" by Grant Wood (1892-1942), American (Cedar Rapids Art Association, Cedar Rapids, lowa) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7— "Wisdom Teaches Right" Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University One cannot look at the "Woman with Plants" without feeling that here is a woman who exemplifies the statement, "the salt of the earth,' and showing greatness, strength, wisdom. She seems visually to portray Dr. Bruce Clark's definition of wisdom at its highest: "It is knowledge, experience, and insight combined, anchored in faith, and enlightened by inspiration." We are advised diligently to seek wisdom from ali sources—''knock and it shall be opened unto you, seek and ye shall find." We are not told that it will be easy to find, but we are told that it will be of great worth. It is interesting to note that the life of Grant Wood seems to follow this injunction. He worked hard as a youth, supporting himself from the age of ten. He taught himself to draw. When he decided to become an artist, he was plagued with a feeling of inferiority culturally because of his background, and felt that he was not proceeding properly because of his lack of training. But he worked. He studied in Europe a number of times, trying to acquire the culture and methods of the Impressionists, each time falling short of his goal, but continually trying to find himself. Then, suddenly, as if by a flash of revelation, he became a painter of the American scene and its people who has no equal. He used his own rural background, he discovered the beauty and truth which had always been around him, and of which he was a part. He struggled, he worked, he looked, he sought, and, finally, it was given to him. This painting is a portrait of his mother, a pioneer woman. We see in it his affection for her, her stately humility, experience, forbearance, and one who has lived much, learned much, given much, received much, and is wise. No doubt Grant Wood was not aware at the time he painted this portrait that it would achieve fame. Yet one cannot help but sense that he received much personal gratification from the fact that he now knew he could be true to himself, could exercise the gift that he had received, and in his own peculiar manner present that which was his alone to give.: "The Bath'' (La Toilette) by Mary Cassatt (1845-1926), American (Art Institute of Chicago) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3— "Humility Yields Strength."' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinhoit, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University The subject matter of art never changes. It is the way the artist "sees" it that changes. Thus the one who looks at a painting sees in it what he knows. Instead of saying, "I know what I like," he might better say, "I like what I know." Content matter chosen by an artist is usually something that is of value to him, something that has touched him deeply or has become a part of him. Mary Cassatt, perhaps America's most famous woman painter, was especially fond of painting mothers, babies, and children, and the tenderness shown in their relationships to each other. This painting, "The Bath," glorifies the humble task of the mother in bathing her child. That which is felt (the willing service and anxious love, the choice to do this humble service) seems to be the subject of the painting. One is reminded of the incident in the scriptures 689 SEPTEMBER 1966 where the Savior in humility washed the feet of Peter. This "feeling" is the content of the painting and is of greatest importance. The artist first had a desire to express this feeling or the "content." Then having mastered the craft of painting, she chose a subject and stated her feeling in the most direct way she could. The viewer, upon seeing the picture, may recall ideas and experiences within his own life which give meaning to what is seen. Thus, one who has a rich background of experience, one who has lived and learned much, is likely to see more in the painting than one with meager background. ("I like what I know.'') Mary Cassatt was born in America, but studied in Paris, where she remained most of her life. Art in America at that time did not enjoy the same status as it did in Europe, and Paris was considered the art center of the world. The painters of France inspired most of the American painters of that day. French Impressionism or "Luminism," as it was called in America, was part of an international art movement to which Mary Cassatt subscribed. Rather than mixing the colors on the palette and painting in great detail, the pigments were placed on the canvas in relatively pure hues next to each other, and the mixing took place in the eye of the viewer. A certain, vibrant luminosity was acquired in this way that could not be achieved in the more conventional manner. AUNT NELLIE'S RAISIN-RICE CUSTARD Alta Williams Raisin-rice custard is a specialty at Aunt Nellie's. Whenever we walk into her spotless kitchen at Spring Valley, there emanates the most delectable aroma. It smells of nutmeg and just a hint of lemon, and we are always invited to eat a warm serving with rich, luscious cream poured from a porcelain pitcher. We have never tired of this enticing recipe and would like to share it with you. 2 qts. Milk (reconstituted dry milk can be used according to directions on package) 1 can evaporated milk (1414 ommmne) 2 tsp. Vanilla 1 dozen beaten eggs 1 c. Raisins 11% c. Sugar 1 c. Cooked rice 2 tsp. Lemon flavoring f nutmeg sprinkled on top Use a large cake pan for baking the custard and cook in a slow oven (300°F) until a knife inserted will come out clean. Cooking too fast will cause custard to separate. This recipe will serve 15 people generously. COMFORT DURING STRESS Kathryn Kay | know there is a power deep in the roots of me, much stronger than the will to live, or fear of death, and in this power and strength there is security that gives a purpose to my every breath. * live for something greater than | understand; this knowledge gives me courage. | will not complain. | need not fear because | know some unseen hand will guide me safely through this present pain. 690 (Continued from page 678) Forming the flower. Lay a knitting needle across the outer edge of a petal and roll tightly all the way to the tapered point. Push with thumbs the rolled petal toward the center of the needle as an accordion. Remove petal from the needle, and continue the process until all of the desired petals are rolled. Then begin with the smaller petals and wrap them around stamens (which can be secured from craft shops or department stores) about three stamens to each flower. Be careful not to wrap the petals too tightly. With a small piece of florist's wire bind the petals and the stamens together into a blossom. Preparing a Drip Box. Prepare ahead of time. The drip box is made from the bottom part of a cardboard box large enough to accommodate the number of flowers you wish to dip. Cut slits 1 inch deep and 5 to 6 inches apart at each end of the box. String sturdy wire across the box and hook it in the slits at each end. Line the bottom of the box with several layers of newspaper. Dipping the Flowers. The dipping solution (1 pint of plastic and 40 drops of catalyst) is mixed in a No. 214 can and stirred well. Dip each poppy completely into the solution and squeeze and shake, (important step) hang it by the stem in the drip box. This process is best accomplished outdoors. After all of the flowers have been dipped, pick up the first dipped poppy (still wet), and gently pull the petals apart and shape them into pleasing form. After each flower is shaped, place it (stem down) in a small frozen juice can (nothing larger). Push the flower about one inch down into the can so that the petals will not droop over the sides. Dry in hot sunlight three hours (no longer). If not completely dry, move the flowers into shade and leave them as long as necessary. The next day (do not wait any longer or the flowers will tear) remove the flowers carefully from the cans. Paint over all the petals with a coat of plastic resin (prepared with catalyst according to directions as before). Place each flower, as painted, back in its can and allow to dry. If the blossoms need some re-shaping later, place them out in the hot sunshine, so they will become pliable. Attaching stems. Use straight lengths of white wire from a clothes hanger for stems. Place the end of the wire along the base of the flower and then wrap with white florist's tape. Wrap all flowers and buds the same way, but occasionally wrap a bud or two in with the sheathing of the flower stem. After the wrapping with tape, wrap again with white florist's ribbon. Plastic leaves can be used in arrangements with the poppies, or various types of plastic greenery can be used. Making crystal leaves. Prepare a mold by cutting from an aluminum pie tin a pattern similar to the one below. Cut the leaf 14 inch larger than the desired finished size, and fold up the edges to form the sides of the mold. Fill the molds full of "cooking crystals" (granules of plastic), level off the top, and place molds on a cookie sheet covered with heavy aluminum foil. Place in a preheated oven (400°F) and cook for exactly 12 minutes. (Longer cooking may melt the plastic too much and turn it yellow). Working quickly, remove cookie sheet from oven and take molds one at a time on to hot pads. Bend and shape the leaves (still in molds!) artistically to take away the stiff look. If leaves harden in molds before shaping—return to oven to soften. Heat an ice pick red hot and make a hole at the base of the leaf for inserting, the stem (made of heavy florist wire). Wrap the stem with tape as directed for the flowers, about three inches down the stem. Pattern for Organdy Crystal Leaf Poppy Petal 691 Ellis Farnsworth Nielsen, El Paso, Texas, daughter of pioneers who were creators of beauty in the wilderness, has made hundreds of handicraft articles which represent her love of beauty, and the exactness of her artistic techniques. A recent specialty has been the making of pillows, baby quilts, and beautiful dolls to delight the children and decorate the nursery and the bedrooms. As a quilter and designer of quilts, Sister Nielsen has contributed hundreds of hours of time and many quilts to Relief Society. She has taught the fine art of quilting in several wards and has served as quilting chairman. Sister Nielsen has developed her outstanding leadership and executive talents by serving as counselor and as president in ward Relief Societies, and her long years of devotion as a visiting teacher have been a comfort and an inspiration to women in many wards. She has also been a teacher in MIA and in Primary. Always sensitive and obedient to the needs of her numerous friends and relatives, she has rejoiced in her abundant opportunities to be useful, as she says, ''among the daughters of Zion,'' and in further fields of service. Io 692 @ As though sensing my need of something to divert me from my afflictions and tiredness, little birds of various kinds and colors gather daily to frisk about and feed just outside my north window. Here they eye me speculatively. Countless seeds have been scattered here from weeds that have been allowed to creep closer and closer, encroaching upon my dwelling through the long period of my illness. Yesterday I had the good fortune to witness a one-bird drama, when a large dove, alone by itself, waddled in on the scene. What a fat bird! Was my instant reaction. What a meat pie for the hunter! Never had I seen a dove before that appeared so strangely and uncommonly buxom. Its feathers were a trifle ruffled, as if through a slight contact with a cat or other foe. Its tail feathers seemed slightly separated from the pinions of its body. A fluffy row of off-white feathers was revealed, protruding daringly from under its left wing. Bird Dramas Rose A. Openshaw I unconsciously referred to him at once as the starveling, for never had I seen a bird so ravenous. He ate and ate until I was almost convinced he was made without a craw and was trying to fill his whole body. Other birds loitering around were ignored by him entirely. Although he glanced up at rare intervals, lifting his head high, apparently it was for a breather only, or to stretch himself that he might hold the more. Occasionally, too, he shook his bill, then commenced all over again. His head bobbed up and down constantly as seeds were salvaged in a swift flying movement from the earth. A few times his bill was wiped first on one side and then on the other in the brown dirt, but in a quick, slapdash fashion, as if time was fleeting and he had none to spare for niceties. I decided he must have contracted to feed a whole colony of infant birds and was storing a surplus for that purpose. Other birds ate sparingly and visited in between, making meal- 693 SEPTEMBER 1966 time a pleasant social experience. Not he! All he desired, seemingly, was to fill a great void within. He acted as if he never expected to see food in such quantities again, and must get his ""manna'"' while it was going. Tasks drew my attention, and before I returned, he had disappeared. But I seriously doubted, after such an intake, he would be able to take to the air. He must have footed it. What could have happened to develop such a capacity? I decided to await his return with interest, for I would be able to recognize him at once by his appetite, if nothing else. Strange how a bird and other forms of life, both human and otherwise, at first appear to look like all the others of their kind, puzzling one to know, until further acquaintance reveals the many distinguishing features. Feathers, we find, are quite as varied and distinguishable as are faces. One male I noted had a beautiful, dark-blue sheen to his costume. Some have one shade and some another, and marks are different on each. I was astounded one day to perceive a bright pink feather at the throat of one dove and wondered why he was so marked or honored. Had he performed some valorous deed before enteying this realm and so was worthy of such distinction? The feather reposed on the lower right side of his throat and seemed to give delight to his mate, who did not permit him two feet from her side. Doves, usually, I noted, drifted in by two's, and a few mornings ago a couple arrived early before 694 the crowd. The male was recognized by his more brilliant attire. He immediately spread himself, breast down on the warm earth. He would enjoy a little siesta while his mate dined. By and by, distressed by the violent rays of the sun, he lifted his right wing and tail feathers umbrella-wise, shielding himself. Thus, he remained, lowering his improvised parasol but once, and that to rest tired muscles. When his mate had completed her meal, they hopped slowly away. Ann, oh, I must not miss this little romance going on at this moment right before me! There is the forlorn male dove, his head sunk deep into his collar, trying to hide his shame. Both wings are dragging, and his whole attitude bespeaks the spurned and humiliated lover, for had not his advances been repelled by his lady-love, who flew angrily at his head, viciously pecking at him each time he drew near? Shaming him, too, in the presence of his friends? A similar scene had been enacted the day before. Could it have been the same couple? Or, are birds that persistent? The male tried overtaking his love, but each successive time she escaped by a small margin. He continued, only to meet with a series of rebuffs, for each time he landed, he found she had leaped forward, escaping only by a hair's breadth, until, finally, finding herself cornered by trees and tall grass, she lifted her wings, seeking shelter in the thick, heavyleafed branches of a willow. He stood dejectedly, then, and for a moment gazed sadly after this winged siren, then, shaking himself, said as plain as a dove could, "I'm through!" He then had turned sheepishly to face his companions, but finding them preoccupied and none tittering at his plight, his confidence had mounted, and he walked back serenely. Perhaps he could bring this choice one to reason by his attention to others. It was worth a try! Among other varieties of feathered creatures lured by the seeds outside my window, was a single red cardinal, looking like a flaming bit of cloth caught in the tall, brown grass. There it had lighted along the bank of the nearby canal. And there in the fig tree, among its broad leaves, where other birds twittered and flittered pleasant hours away, a strange but beautiful flyer in bright green, much as a green knight of old, had lighted. Here he paused long enough thoroughly to enjoy the breathtaking admiration and excited eomment his presence evoked. Then, resuming his route, he delighted other charmed audiences. And here two owls, feeling it an ideal environment for their young, have taken up residence, hiding by day and spending their nights parked in the hedge at the south. Their heavy breathing at nights constrains one to believe that a human is snoring. Baby owls covered at birth by BIRD DRAMAS brilliant feathers, both long and heavy, appear almost as large as the parents and can be told apart only by weight and dexterity. A neighbor caught one, bringing it for me to examine. It was so young it could not fly enough to escape, yet its long array of fathers gave an appearance of being full grown, and I could not believe it was otherwise until, taking it in my hands, I found its body greatly lacking in substance. At one time a road runner, that symbol of loneliness—wanderer of desert lands, ever in search of the elusive—wandered > in, his eager, quizzical gaze posing questions we could not answer. Disappointed, his swift feet bore him quickly beyond our ken. And once, all the birds turned in open-eyed wonder, when a tiny pig—an escaped mascot, dropped in on us in a surprise venture. But, out of his element, and, probably, lured by thoughts of a waiting banquet, he made the dirt scramble under his_ short legs, startling the birds whose wings were poised instantly for flight. He called "goodbye" in his native tongue, "ouink, ouink!" as he fled. SEPTEMBER SNOW Beulah Huish Sadleir First snow fell on a summered lake, Restless water, water opaque: Snow fell lightly, lent heart-content, Acceptance of winter, and summer spent. 695 FROM THE FIELD Roy Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present "'The Charms of Music' April 29, 1966 Glenda G. Thompson, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: 'In celebration of our fifth birthday, we wished to do something special and really nice. We thought we would like to include all our families and friends to enjoy this special event with us. We presented a musical program "The Charms of Music.' This program was very well received, and was well attended. Ninetytwo sisters in the Singing Mothers chorus were wonderful, and the guest artists were outstanding. We were happy to have with us Sister Cleone Rich Eccles of the General Board of Relief Society. The excellent program was arranged by June Heiser, chorister, with Feola Barton as organist." Box Elder Stake (Utah) Honors Visiting Teachers at Convention April 28, 1966 Front row, left to right, visiting teachers honored for the most years of service, left to right: Kathleen Reese; Alice R. Rich; Ruby Forsgren; Lavina Thomas; Aurilla Hansen. Members of the Box Elder Stake Relief Society Board are seen standing in the second row; in the back row are the characters from the Brigham City Eleventh Ward who presented the play "Beyond Each Door." Bernice H. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The play 'Beyond Each Door,' by Alberta H. Christensen, was presented under the direction of the Eleventh Ward Relief Society President Vonda Cheney. The play was enjoyed by a large number of visiting teachers. We were all thrilled with the Singing Mothers from the Sixth Ward who sang 'God Is Ever Beside Me,' and 'A Visiting Teacher's Prayer.' They were under the direction of Marie M. Hyde, accompanied by Juanita Steffen. The visiting teachers honored for many years of service were each presented with a corsage. The stake board served refreshments to all attending." Beaver Stake (Utah), Minersville Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers at Birthday Party March 17, 1966 Left to right: Cassie McKnight; Lucy Williams; Effie Marshall; Albateen Roberts; Ileen Jameson; Inez Carter; Edith Bradfield; Fern Craw; Bessie Pearson; Armina Banks; Jennie Marquardson; Madge Carter. Lucille A. Murdock, President, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teachers in the picture, over seventy, were given a special tribute and a gift at the Relief Society anniversary observance in Minersville Ward. Because of eight consecutive years. Of 100 per cent visiting teaching, all of the other visiting teachers of the ward were also honored. A delicious turkey supper was served to all Relief Society members and their husbands, after which a program was presented entitled 'Lest We Forget.' The beautiful birthday cake may be seen on the table in the picture." 696 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. SEPTEMBER 1966 Duchesne Stake (Utah) Leadership Meeting and Spring Fashion Show May 28, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Viola Bleazard, Secretary-Treasurer; Lois B. Goodrich, Counselor; Ora N. Holgate, President; Arwella P. Moon, Counselor; Rita Hansen, chorister; Anona Miles, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: NaDeane Horrocks and Iva Allred, decoration committee; Rayda Stevenson, visiting teacher message leader; Ida Horrocks, literature class leader; Inez Swasey, social science class leader; Jennette Turnbow, theology class leader; Ina Kitteridge, who played the background music during the fashion show. Sister Holgate reports: "The closing social and fashion show was very well attended with one hundred fifty Relief Society members. Forty-two children modeled dresses and suits the mothers had made, with the help of Relief Society. For some, it was the first time sewing for their children. The dresses modeled were made at very little cost. Some were remodeled from men's suits, formals, etc. Modeled by women and teenagers were afternoon dresses, formals, dressy suits, casual dresses, and a wedding gown—all beautifully made. This accomplishment and the fashion show helped the mothers to realize what wonderful accomplishments can be done by being able to sew and make lovely clothing for oneself and one's family. "The stake Singing Mothers sang two numbers, and several wards rendered songs and musical numbers." Smithfield Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Presents Special Displays at Leadership Meeting April 28, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Erma B. Thompson, chorister; Lulu R. Mortensen, literature class leader; Selena G. Low, President; Winona W. Cunningham, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Ruby J. Thornley, Magazine representative; Donna L. Cooley, visiting teacher message leader; Bessie T. Griffin, organist; Marva S. Jenson, theology class leader; Roberta N. Geary, Second Counselor; Dixie P. Hillyard, work meeting leader; Tellma G. Thompson, First Counselor; Wanda G. Nielsen, social science class leader. Sister Low reports: "The ward workers enjoyed an array of artistry depicting the program of Relief Society at leadership meeting. Each stake leader arranged a beautiful table to instill in the sisters the correlation of each department to the success of the whole program of Relief Society. A light luncheon was served at the close of the evening to a large group of dedicated workers. The picture shows the social science display." Las Vegas East Stake (Nevada) Presents Dramatization "Home Is My Harbor,"" May 20, 1966 Loretta N. Gubler, President, reports: "The Las Vegas East Relief Society Stake Board presented a fund-raising program on May 20. We felt it was especially significant that we presented 'Home Is My Harbor' with members of the stake board and their families. The beautiful and spiritual message of the play was felt by all attending, as evidenced by the emotion shown by the audience at the close of the program. The Singing Mothers represented the five wards in our stake and performed beautifully. We held practices both night and day each Monday, so we could have the working mothers sing and participate with us. We were delighted with the attendance and feel that the evening was a big success, both financially and spiritually. The Singing Mothers were directed by stake chorister Renee Pearce, with Ethelyn Peterson at the organ, and Larraine Ficklin at the piano. Emma Solomon directed the play. Counselors to President Gubler are Mabel Hansen and Emma Solomon, with Hermise Thiess, Secretary-Treasurer." 698 » TTP eT ene ia 4 | 1 4 SEPTEMBER 1966 North Carbon Stake (Utah) Presents Fashion Show April 1, 1966 Left to right: Carry] Carlson, wearing a dress made by her mother; Annalee Holdaway, in white and coral taffeta brocade formal; Marlene Richardson, wearing an afternoon dress; June Johnson and daughter Donna, in look-alike dresses of red and white gingham. Myrna C. Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The stake board took charge of most of the details, but the wards delivered an invitation to each home by the visiting teachers. The contribution was fifty cents a ticket and we shared the proceeds with the wards. "We felt that the fashion show was a real success. More than one hundred models participated, modeling clothes made by themselves or their mothers. Nothing worn in the fashion show was 'store-bought,' other than shoes and accessories. We had many nonmembers in attendance, so that we felt the fashion show was a good missionary tool. The dresses were displayed in scenes and not individually. "Two sewing classes have been held in wards in North Carbon Stake as a result of the fashion show, and others are being planned. The variety and number of items modeled was outstanding, and all the sewing was beautifully done. We feel that the Lord really blessed us for our efforts." South Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Spring Program, March 30, 1966 Seated, front row, beginning fourth from the left: Gloria Rippon, accompanist; Lois Shepherd, Secretary-Treasurer; Beverly Francis, Education Counselor; Elma B. Ross, President; Lila Evertsen, Work Counselor; Sharon Steed, chorister. Sister Ross reports: "Our stake spring program consisted of a dramatization by a father, mother, and two children, who discussed composers and their works from the Old World and the New, and the Singing Mothers performed the works discussed." Riverside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Riverside Ward Relief Society Presidents Honor Magazine Representative March 23, 1966 Seated, front row, left to right: Luella M. Buchi; Hillevi Daniels, Magazine representative; Ada Catmull. Back row, standing, left to right: Dott Linford; Elizabeth Gordon; Elda Nelson, President; Edith W. Tanner; Julia Wunderly. Zella Nesbitt, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "Hillevi Daniels has served faithfully as Magazine representative under the seven ward Relief Society presidents shown in the picture, a total of twenty-seven years. She has averaged above 100 per cent in subscriptions each and every year. She has been loved and revered by all who know her. She was recently released at the age of seventy-nine years because of failing health." 700 SEPTEMBER 1966 \: Phoenix North Stake (Arizona) Magazine Representatives Honored at Leadership Meeting, April 11, 1966 Seated, left to right: Norma L. Wadsworth, Secretary-Treasurer, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society; Julia S. Kremer, retiring Glendale Ward Magazine representative; Ida M. Steele, President, Phoenix North Stake Relief Society. Second row, standing, left to right, Magazine representatives: Emil T. Reep, Twentieth Ward; Hazel C. Davis, Eighth Ward; Adeline Z. Albert, Glendale Ward; Karene Pierson, Twenty-fourth Ward. Back row, standing, left to right: Virginia C. Pullins, Counselor, Phoenix North Stake; Esther S. Knell, Counselor; Pearl T. Jacobsen, Magazine representative, Phoenix North Stake. Sister Steele reports: "The month of April was set aside as our Magazine drive month, under the direction of Sister Jacobsen. This month Julia S. Kremer was also honored at the stake leadership meeting. Sister Kremer has served as-Glendale Ward Magazine representative for thirty-two years. When the ward was created thirty-two years ago, it covered an area which now comprises three stakes. Sister Kremer has magnified her calling, not only as Magazine representative, but also in her devotion to the gospel. In thirty-two years, she has missed only four leadership meetings. She is retiring after serving seventeen ward presidents and eight stake Relief Society presidents. She feels that her subscriptions have traveled around the world. The Luke Air Force Base is in this ward, and many Magazines have been sold to servicemen's wives. Each year she has achieved 100 per cent or more subscriptions. She is an inspiration to all other Magazine representatives for her devotion and service." 702 SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 75 — Light and Truth (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 93:24-26, 30-53) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman molds -her. Life INTRODUCTION We have learned in the last two lessons that Section 93 of the Doctrine and Covenants gives considerable understanding about the Savior and also man. TRUTH—ABSOLUTE From this wonderful revelation, Section 93, we learn the following definition of truth: And truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come; And whatsoever is more or less than this is the spirit of that wicked one who was a liar from the beginning (D&C 93:24-25). In accordance with revealed truth. Truth is knowledge! Truth is constant—absolute! Truth never changes! Men may change as to their concepts of truth, but truth, never. It is that which was, is, and will continue to be. Expressed. In another revelation— "truth abideth and hath no end" (Ibid., 88:66). Men of science consider the. Understanding of truth to be relative; that is, it changes. What is looked upon as "true" today may change tomorrow. This belief concerning man's research is necessary in order that man's investigations may continue. The scientist builds upon the findings 703 SEPTEMBER 1966 of others and thus advancement is made in discovering additional fragments of truth. But what about religious truths, as contained in the gospel of Jesus Christ restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith and his successors? Men may know about God and their relationship to him through revelation. Man's environment will not provide the answer; it must be revealed! The acceptance of this truth will bring this understanding. The Prophet stated: We take the sacred writings into our hands, and admit that they were given by direct inspiration for the good of man. We believe that God condescended to speak from the heavens and declare His will concerning the human family, to give them just and holy laws, to regulate their conduct, and guide them in a direct way, that in due time He might take them to Himself, and make them joint heirs with His Son. But when this fact is admitted, that the immediate will of heaven is contained in the Scriptures, are we not bound as rational creatures to live in accordance to all its precepts? Will the mere admission, that this is the will of heaven ever benefit us if we do not comply with all its teachings? Do we not offer violence to the Supreme Intelligence of heaven, when we admit the truth of its teachings, and do not obey them? Do we not descend below our own knowledge, and the better wisdom which heaven has endowed us with, by such a course of conduct? For these reasons, if we have direct revelations given us from heaven, surely those revelations were never given to be trifled with, without the trifler's incurring displeasure and. Vengeance upon his own head, if there is any justice in heaven... (DHC II:11). CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss the consequences of admitting a truth and not living according to it. All truth has not been re- 704 vealed. Some truths are withheld because men lack faith. (Alma 12:9-11.) Our ninth Article of Faith declares that God "will yet reveal many great and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God." We have, nevertheless, all that is necessary for the attainment of exaltation in. The celestial kingdom. Men continue to acquire further knowledge in the spirit world. During the millennium, the living will receive more knowledge. (D&C 101:32- 34.) TRUTH—DIFFERENTIATION Is all knowledge of equal value? Not all knowledge is of equal value. The knowledge that constitutes the wisdom of the heavens is all embraced in the Gospel as taught by Jesus Christ; and wilful ignorance of this, the highest type of knowledge, will relegate its victim to the inferior order of intelligences (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 edition, p. 267). We lived with God before we were born upon this earth. We are here for the purpose, ultimately, of advancing through faith toward godhood. The most important knowledge is_ that knowlelge which teaches salvation. If we learn all of the information about secular things in a given field of endeavor, important for this life, and yet we do not measure up to the purpose of our existence, we have lost our opportunity for the greatest blessings. TRUTH IS OF GOD "The Spirit of truth is of God" (D&C 93:26). How may one receive truth? President Stephen L Richards answers, as follows: .. We must, of necessity have God's aid in the acquisition of truth. His aid comes through faith and prayer. Faith contemplates the acceptance of the spiritual reality of a world outside the domain of science. It involves methods and processes different from those of scientific research. It postulates humility and dependence on divine power, the antipathies of egotism and self-efficiency. A contrite heart is the fertile field for planting the seeds of truth. In such a field they come to fruition in a knowledge, understanding, and conviction of the great concepts of life which defy the reason and philosophy of the arrogant, and self-sufficient, who will not stoop to the methods of the humble (Conference Report, April 1939, p. 41). THE POWER OF TRUTH There is a quality about religious truth that makes it different—the power to testify of itself. The Prophet Joseph Smith said:... In relation to the power over the minds of mankind which I hold, I would say, it is in consequence of the power of truth in the doctrines which I have been an instrument in the hands of God of presenting unto them, and not because of any compulsion on my part (DHC VI:273). There is a spirit about truth that captures the attention and allegiance of those who are prepared for it. Elder Orson F. Whitney told the following experience with the bishop of another denomination who had written against the Book of Abraham in The Pearl of Great Price:. I met the Bishop, with whom I was quite well acquainted, and he said to me: "Why have you not answered me?" "I have," was my reply; "I have been answering you all over the country, but it hasn't gotten into the papers." "Oh, indeed, and what have you ben saying?" he inquired. "I have been saying this: LESSON DEPARTMENT 'Truth is truth, where'er 'tis found, On Christian or on heathen ground.' "And whether it be taken from an ancient hill in North America, as was the Book of Mormon; or from the catacombs of Egypt, as was the Book of Abraham, if it's true, it's true, no matter who translated it, or how many supposed flaws appear in the translation. The character of the content and the spirit that goes with it, determines better than all else its truth, its authenticity. We know Shakespeare's writings by the very sound of them—they have the Shakespearean ring. Literary experts can tell the difference between these writings and all others. We _ recognize Milton's poetry by the Miltonic ring; the poetry of Byron and Tennyson by the Byronic and Tennysonian ring. Then, if God speaks, why should it not have a Godlike ring, something that no man can counterfeit, nor any but a spiritual expert fully appreciate?" [He] agreed with me. Not as to the Book of Abraham, but as to the best way of testing any book. "I am one with you," he said, "in the belief that the highest evidence of the truth of any work is the spirit that it breathes and the wisdom that it inculcates," "Then," said I, "this Book of Abraham needs no defense from me, nor from anyone else. It speaks for itself; it defends itself. By the majesty of its language, by the sublimity of its teachings and the Spirit that permeates them, it proclaims itself divine' (Conference Report, April 1926, p. 34). LIGHT AND TRUTH The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth. Light and truth forsake that evil one (D&C 93: 36-37). The divine essence in man, intelligence, is light and_ truth. What is light? In discussing faith and knowledge, Alma mentions faith, that it was dormant until the word swelled the soul and then, he said,. It hath sprouted up, that your understanding doth begin to be en- 705 SEPTEMBER 1966 lightened, and your mind doth begin to expand. O then, is not this real? I say unto you, Yea, because it is light; and whatsoever is light, is good, because it is discernible, therefore ye must know that it is good... (Alma 32: 34-35). Light, then, "is the wisdom and ability to forsake everything 'more or less' than truth" (RomNEY, Marion G.: BYU Bulletin, May 31, 1957). Because man is _ intelligence ("light and truth''), he is capable, by reason of his nature, to recognize truth and, by his free agency, reject error. Men may cloud their ability to discern light and truth because of sin. The greater the sin and the longer the continuance in sin, the less power one has to distinguish between truth and falsehood. It is probable, however, that few men lose all of this power. THE WAY OF TRUTH Jesus declared that he is the way of salvation, the Spirit of truth, and that he has a fulness of truth. (John 14:6; D&C 93: 26.) The Holy Ghost is also known as the Spirit of truth. (John 15:26; D&C 50:17.) Truth, light, and Spirit, are the Spirit of Christ which is given to all men, and he who hearkens to this Spirit is enlightened: (D&C 84: 45-46.) This Spirit is also called the "light of Christ." (Ibid., 88: 6-13; Moroni 7:14-19.) We have learned of the functions and place of this Spirit in our world. (Lesson 65 Relief Society Magazine, July 1965.) It is through Jesus Christ that truth is made known to man. Various means of revelation are used, such as dreams, visions, pure intelligence into the mind, 706 but always it is through the Savior.. (D&C 76:12-13.) To be obedient to the teachings of Christ—having faith in him, repenting, being baptized, and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost, and keeping the commandments, bring the Holy Ghost as a constant companion. (Jbid., 121:46.) These powers and influences— the "light of Christ'? And the Holy Ghost—guide men into "light and truth." All of them come from Jesus Christ to bless men that they may succeed in the journey back to the Father's presence to receive a fulness of joy after the resurrection. (Ibid., 93: 33-34.) STANDARD OF JUDGMENT Moroni said that the Spirit of Christ, which is given to all men, is the means by which God has provided that men may know truth from error. The way to judge is to realize that everything that persuades men to do good and to believe in Christ, is of God. If the idea persuades men to do evil and not to believe in Christ, it is of the devil. (Moroni 7:14-19.) Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve comments as follows on Moroni's words: In applying this test, that everything that persuadest to believe in Christ is of God and that everything which persuadeth not to believe in Christ is of the devil, we start with the assurance that whatever the Lord has revealed is truth, "diamond truth" to borrow a phrase from the Prophet, that it is consistent with all that is, all that was, and all that is to come. This is and must be so because God's wisdom is infinite, being founded upon complete knowledge. "All things," said the prophet Lehi speaking [of] things of the works of God, "have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things" (2 Nephi 2:24). Implicit in this text is the assumption that wisdom is dependent upon knowledge and that God's wisdom is infinite because He is omniscient. "He knoweth all things, and there is not anything save he knows it" (2 Nephi 9:20). He possesses with respect to all matters that knowledge which is truth, the object of our search, "knowledge of things as they are... As they were, and as they are to come....".. - Does what you have learned persuade you "to do good" and "to believe in Christ?" If so, it is "of God," and being of God it is truth. It will never be repudiated (BYU Bulletin, May 30, 1957). To elucidate upon this standard of judgment, Elder Romney provides this example: That you may understand more clearly what I have in mind, let me give you an illustration or two. One of the fundamental doctrines of revealed truth is that in the garden of Eden, God endowed men with free agency. (Moses 7:32.) The preservation of this free agency is more important than the preservation of life itself.... For without it, "there is no existence."" (D&C 93:30.) It is, therefore, clear that everything which militates against man's enjoyment of this endowment persuades not to believe in Christ, for He is the author of free agency...... Truth and error cannot be reconciled. All you need to do is distinguish between them, accept the truth and forsake the error. That is what the Lord has always done. In fact, His ability to do so is, as we have seen, inherent in the intelligence which is His glory. The error of Lucifer and the truth of Jesus could not be reconciled even in heaven. Error had to be cast out (Ibid.). WHY MEN ARE ACCOUNTABLE As indicated above, man is a free agent with the right to choose. (Helaman 14:30.) BeLESSON DEPARTMENT cause he enjoys this right, aided by the "light of Christ," he is responsible for his acts. The additional truth is given in Section 93 that since man is intelligence, this divine essence, "light and truth," makes him responsible. All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also; otherwise there is no existence. Behold, here is the agency of man, and here is the condemnation of man; because that which was from the beginning is plainly manifest unto them, and they receive not the light. And every man whose spirit receiveth not the light is under condemnation (D&C 93:30-32). Because of the power in truth, man should be able to recognize it; for part of his being is "truth and light." In the beginning, every spirit was innocent, but, in the war in heaven, Lucifer rebelled, taking many with him. These spirits lost their innocence, but those who kept their first estate come to earth in mortal bodies and are innocent. (Jbid., 93:38.) This innocence continues until the age of eight is reached, and then each person becomes accountable for his sins. (Ibid., 68:25-27.) THE VOICE OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD. Light and truth are lost by men as they disobey the commandments. When it comes to accepting the truth of the gospel, men may not understand them because they have lost the ability to comprehend, due to the traditions of their fathers and of individual sin which have darkened their susceptibility to truth. (Ibid., 93:39; 76:75; JAMES E. TALMAGE, The Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 269-271.) The voice 707 SEPTEMBER 1966 of the Good Shepherd becomes too dim to be understood. Latter-day Saints may know the voice of the Master as they observe all the commandments. (John 10:1-14, D&C 50:17-22.) President Brigham Young asks and then answers the question: "How are we to know the voice of the Good Shepherd from the voice of a stranger?"... When an individual, filled with the Spirit of God, declares the truth of heaven, the sheep hear that, the Spirit of the Lord pierces their inmost souls and sinks deep into their hearts; by the testimony of the Holy Ghost light springs up within them, and they see and understand for themselves.... I have said to the Latter-day Saints, many and many a time, and I say to them now, live your religion, that the Spirit of God may be within you like a well of water springing up to everlasting life.... Be prepared that you may know the voice when it comes through the servants of God, then you can declare for yourselves, "This is the word of the Lord." My caution and counsel to the Latter-day Saints, and to all the inhabitants of the earth is—''Live so that you will know truth from error' (Journal of Discourses 16: 74-75). CHILDREN—LIGHT AND TRUTH The Lord has commanded Latter-day Saints to rear their children in "light and truth." (D&C 93:40). No person in the Church is beyond this commandment. Even members of The First Presidency, in 1833, were told that they had not kept this commandment. This was said of Presidents Frederick G. Williams and Sidney Rigdon, Counselors to President Joseph Smith. Unless they were obedient in setting their houses in order Satan would continue to have power over them. (Ibid., 93:41-44.) Even 705 the Prophet lacked in this matter also. An important truth was also taught regarding his family. Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place (Ibid., 93: 48). In other words, responsibility is not only the parent's but also the child's. But the major obligation is with the parents who are to teach their children principles of righteousness. (Jbid., 68:25-31.) The Family Home Evening program in use throughout the Church is one means by which this commandment can be lived by parents and children. No other people have as much opportunity to rear children in "light and truth" as do the Latter-day Saints. It is also true that no other people are under the same responsibility as the Latter-day Saints. When one considers the truth that children come from our Father and that what parents do or do not do for them here determines, in a large measure, their eternal future, the weight of this responsibility is better appreciated. CLASS DISCUSSION: What would happen in the world if parents brought up their children in "light and truth''? Latter-day Saint families are intended to be eternal. The association of parents and children. Throughout the eternities is the desired goal of every faithful member of the Church. Etermal marriage is the qualifying ordinance, together with keeping the commandments and _ obligations received in the House of the Lord. The words of President Joseph F. Smith are especially pertinent to these thoughts: We are living for eternity and not merely for the moment. Death does not part us from one another, if we have entered into sacred relationships with each other by virtue of the authority that God has revealed to the children of men. Our relationships are formed for eternity. We are immortal beings, and we are looking forward to the growth that is to be attained in an exalted life after we LESSON DEPARTMENT have proved ourselves faithful and true to the covenants that we have entered into here, and then we will receive a fulness of joy (Gospel Doctrine, 10th edition, pp. 277-278). FOR CONSIDERATION Do you think a discussion on the kind of a life each member of the family should live in order to have the Holy Ghost as a constant companion would be helpful to them? Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 75 — "Obtain a Knowledge of History, and of Countries, and of Kingdoms, of Laws of God and Man, and All This for the Salvation of Zion'' (D&C 93:53). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To help us realize the importance of continued study by The land had to be cleared, and new houses and barns built. There was the restored Church to develop, leaders to train, renewed faith and perspective to acquire and unfold, missionary work to be done. It must have been staggering when the Lord, in the face of these tasks, instructed the saints through the Prophet Joseph Smith, to study, to obtain knowledge, to seek truth — "knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come" (D&C 93:24). Learning is an eternal process. The leaders obeyed this admonition. Learned and unlearned ourselves and our children. Sat down together to study the vast, all-inclusive course of study that the Lord detailed to the Prophet. Teachers and professors, some not members of the Church, were called to teach. Throughout the ages God has attacked the old and chronic social problem of ignorance. Through Hosea, almost three millenniums ago, the Lord said: "My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge" (Hosea 4:6). During his earthly ministry Jesus stated that "... The truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). In the Doctrine and Covenants it is revealed that "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" 709 SEPTEMBER 1966 (D&C 131:6). We are also told that "if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D&C 130:19). Since the scriptures attest to the great importance of gaining knowledge, a busy Latter-day Saint mother may ask: "What is my task? What should I do?' Her answer could be: "Study; obtain knowledge; seek truth; train yourself; teach your children." "What shall I teach them? What shall we study?" The reply: "The laws and commandments of God—the gospel —and this with diligence and prayer." "This I am trying to do." "Good. In addition, as_ the scripture for this message states, obtain a knowledge of history, both ancient and modem. Study all countries and kingdoms." "How shall I do this?" "There are many and wonderful ways of learning about countries. Teachers can help. Books open the world to view. Travel when you can. Ask people about their countries and kingdoms. Television and radio can introduce you to the whole world in your own home." "Is there yet more?" "Oh, yes, exciting and without end. Now add the written and unwritten laws of men, as well as the customs and traditions by which they are governed in all the cultures of the world." "But how shall I do all this?" "Begin today on some part of it. Although you have limitless time, today is part of eternity and time is priceless." id. 7 HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Hazel S. Cannon A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To summarize how the homemaker and her family can benefit through homemaking education; and to re-emphasize INTRODUCTION In "The Tale of Custard, the Dragon," the whimsical poem by Ogden Nash, American poethumorist, Custard longs for only 710 the objectives of the past year. One thing, "a nice safe cage." Have you as a homemaker ever felt like Custard, yearning for the confines of "a nice safe cage" to shut out the disrupting in- fluences which extract your energies, and to forbid the entrance of some activities for which you seem to be responsible? Have you ever longed for the demands of modern living to remain static just long enough for you to "catch up'? Much as the homemaker might share Custard's outlook, there is no hiding spot for her. She must make home the happiest, the most desirable, the most secure, and the most aesthetically satisfying place in the world—for her husband, her family, and herself. In this day of specialization, she must remain a general practitioner. The entire homemaking curriculum is hers to master with "an intelligent mind and a trained hand." Education in homemaking experiences develops depth of abilities and understandings; it provokes intellectual excitement and provides the atmosphere which encourages the optimal personal achievement of each family member. TO DISCUSS 1. Why are some girls, the great majority of whom will marry and run their own homes, so repelled at the thought of receiving instruction at home and/or school in homemaking activities which will obviously be central in their lives later? (Point out among other things that some girls may not have been impressed favorably in their own homes relative to the value of homemaking. Elicit from the class the fact that the role of the homemaker is a powerful one in the development of the eternal verities in her family; and that she may well hold the fate of the world in her hands.) 2. In what ways do you feel that the homemaking profession needs upgrading? Discuss. 3. How can the study of the fine arts, such as music, literature, drama, LESSON DEPARTMENT add dimension to the life of the homemaker and her family? One modern American writer speaks of the knowledge which a homemaker brings to her calling as a jewel which can gleam just as brightly in the kitchen as when it is brought to the marketplace. She deplores the attitude assumed by some _ individuals that enlightenment is not for one concerned with such tasks as scouring the sink, mixing up a batch of chocolate brownies, or entertaining children. The homemaker, indeed, wears a precious jewel when her imagination is challenged, when there is adequate use of her experiences, and when exciting opportunities for creativity and learning are realized. MAKE YOUR OWN HEAVEN Attributed to Pliny the Elder are the stirring words, "Veritably it is a truism—that home is where the heart is." Equally impressive is the expression of the little girl, who having just moved to an apartment house, exclaimed, '""We have a home, but no house to put it in." Inescapably bound together are the heart, the mind, and the spirit in the creation of a happy home. The cooperation of the family and the degree of communication among them are the result of the parents' teaching and example. Willie Mae Rogers, director of the Institute of Good Housekeeping Magazine, at the Fifteenth National Home Laundry Conference, held in Chicago in 1961, shared a choice recipe from a reader. It follows: 711 SEPTEMBER 1966 "Daily Health Bread" Mrs. Lillian Keyser, Iowa City, Iowa 1 restful night of sleep 1 or more pleasant "good mornings" (depending on number of people present) 3 sensible meals—one at the start, the other two as needed 1 goal—necessary ingredient, but varies with the day of the week and the "temperature" of the household... 1 or more services for someone else (several are often needed and give satisfactory results—too many can ruin the batch) 1 or more pleasant conversations (phone call, letter or stimulating reading may be substituted) a dash of spice—taken or given by word of mouth or in book form a generous measure of each of the following: sense of humor, enthusiasm, courage, kindness, unselfishness, understanding, forgiveness, and integrity. These ingredients are the leavening agents and also what holds the loaf together. However, the next ingredient is the most important of all... Love—This cannot be measured, but add a little every hour. This is what gives the flavor, shape, size and quality. Without this ingredient, your bread will be a failure. Thanksgiving—This is the catalyst that speeds the action of all the ingredients and makes them effective. 1 hour of relaxation—while it cools. Interesting additions: Children, pets, guests, relatives, crafts, clubs, hobbies, church and comntunity services, etc. Add separately or in various combinations. Too many will cause the loaf to grow beyond your control—and your digestion. Note: Sniffles, accidents, gossip, self-pity, etc., spoil the shape and flavor of the loaf. Avoid if possible. 712 Note: Some of the necessary ingredients are hard to find, some are hard to keep. Don't worry. Use what you have on hand and keep looking for the other ingredients. You are the maker of the loaf and you determine what you and your household shall be fed. (Reprinted by Permission of Good Housekeeping Magazine). It is heartening that there are women in the world today who have this concept of homemaking. SUMMARY "Wear yet a precious jewel" (Shakespeare) of learning; evaluate the results often—do not expect perfection every time in everything (unless, of course, you can isolate yourself in a mythical "nice safe cage"); exercise patience; try to keep your sense of humor; bequeath to yourself that one hour of relaxation daily; practice empathetic understanding of your family always. Again—yours is a divine appointment by our Heavenly Father. You can make your home a happy place—an earlier heaven. TO DO AND THINK ABOUT 1. What are the areas or specific problems in homemaking education in which you personally need the most help? List these on a piece of paper with your plans for solving them during the new year. Some may be solved, of course, in homemaking meeting. 2. Relate the various ingredients of the Daily Health Bread to you and your home. Be objective. Which ones might you choose for emphasis which you feel would result in a happier home? List these; consult the list each day or two; work conscientiously to incorporate them into your daily life. SOCIAL RELATIONS — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 8 (Lesson 20 in Series)—From Virtue to Virtue Reference: The Priesthood and You (Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons—1966: Lesson 18) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To point out that we attain perfection by progressing INTRODUCTION This December lesson, which is concerned with the spiritual growth of the individual, may appropriately be associated with Christmas time. At this season, when all Christendom memorializes the life and teachings of the Savior, we are reminded of the need for more spirituality in our daily lives. Latter-day Saints have an additional reason for contemplating upon the mission and teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ at Christmas time, for Joseph Smith, the latter-day Prophet who restored the gospel to earth was born in the month of December. FAITH AND SPIRITUALITY In any discussion of spirituality, faith in God is basic, for spirituality and faith are interrelated, inter-dependent, and inseparable. They constitute a cycle of enlightenment and power. As our faith deepens, we become more perceptive to things of the spirit; as our spirituality is thus increased, our faith is strengthened, becoming more positive as a guiding influence in our lives. The extent to which this faith spiritually, from virtue to virtue. Leads to spiritual power is dependent upon our willingness to be led by the Holy Ghost and by our willingness to obey the commandments of God. FROM GRACE TO GRACE (Used in its meaning of virtue to virtue) We know that Jesus was with the Father in the pre-existent world as one of the Godhead, yet he was born in the flesh to live among men. It is relevant and of interest to know that, according to scripture, Jesus progressed from grace to grace. "And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man" (Luke 2:52). "John [the apostle] thus attests the actuality of natural development in the growth of Jesus from childhood to maturity: 'And I, John, saw that he received not of the fullness at the first.... But continued from grace to grace, until he received a fulness, " (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, page 119). (See also D&C 93:2-18.) We note how the Prophet Joseph Smith, whose life and work are well known to all Latter-day Saints, also grew from 713 SEPTEMBER 1966 grace to grace. An early indication of his later capacity for a spiritual fulness is seen, perhaps, by the faith which led him to seek his Heavenly Father for spiritual guidance when only a youth. A study of the Prophet's life reveals the years of preparation —from the time of the First Vision through repeated visits of the angel Moroni, and to the completed translation of the ancient record. The Prophet's willingness to follow the instructions of the angel and other divine counsel, kept him in tune with his Heavenly Father. '""When he first began his work, he received his revelations with the aid of the urim and thummim. As he grew in spiritual power, he laid aside the aid. He, himself, had become a suitable and competent receiving apparatus. Thereafter, he enquired of the Lord, without outside aids, and he _ received answers" (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: An Understandable Religion, pages 8-9). EXPECTED OF US Our Heavenly Father expects us to grow in spiritual stature until perfection is ultimately achieved. He does not expect perfection in a day. Constant striving toward this goal is to be the road to perfection. Nor can we expect to attain perfection at once. We can, however, overcome our imperfections and progress virtue by virtue. In some areas of our living, we can achieve perfection now by obeying particular commandments to the full. For example, we can be perfect in the payment of our tithes. Thus step by step, virtue by virtue, we will 714 grow spiritually as we accept precept upon precept of his revealed word and that of his prophets and willingly keep these commandments. QUESTIONS 1. Do you think there is a greater need for spirituality in our personal lives today than in the time of our parents? Give reasons for your answer. 2. What are the temporal rewards to the individual of increased spirituality? 3. Is your own faith in God stronger today that it was five years ago? 4. How do experiences cause faith to fluctuate rather than remain stationary? THE QUALITY OF FAITH That there may be periods of greater and of lesser faith in one's life seem evident in the following case study dialogue: Woman A: I wish IJ had the faith you seem to have. If I did, I'd go to church regularly, too. Woman B: If you did go, perhaps you'd have a greater faith. Would you like to know about the growth of my faith? Woman A: Do you mean that your faith hasn't always been as strong as it is now? Woman B: I think that I have always had faith, but it has not always had the same quality that it has at present. I hope to keep it always as sustaining and strong as I feel that it is at present. I'll tell you about it. About three years ago, I felt that I wasn't growing spiritually. Although I knew the gospel was true, I felt that I was living in a valley of little faith, so to speak. I know now that my faith needed nourishment. Today, I feel substantially stronger spiritually. Woman A: Just what did you do to bring you to this state of greater faith? Woman B: First. I appraised my activities, and found that I was becoming lax about attending church. I was associating with good women, but they were not religiously inclined, simply not interested in spiritual matters. I listed these facts and then proceeded to correct them. Woman A: Specifically, what did you do? Woman B: (1) I renewed my acquaintance with some of my former friends who were active in the Church with whom I have much in common. (2) I began to attend church regularly, noting the commitments I was making as I partook of the sacrament: that I was willing to take upon me the name of the Son, whose blood was shed for us; that I might always remember him and keep his commandments. This made me consider my activities in relation to those commandments. Incidentally, I am now putting a number of them into full practice. (3) I listened to the testimonies borne by others and realized that I, too, shared blessings for which others expressed' gratitude about which I remained silent and unresponsive. Strengthened and more confident from bearing my testimony in Relief Society, I, at last, gained courage to bear my testimony in sacrament meeting. (4) Wanting to know more about the gospel I heard about in church, I checked through our library, to find a number of books relating to the Church which I had never read. I have since spent many luxury-hours reading in these books, and I am amazed at the spiritual insight this reading is giving me. Woman A: Does a strong faith require so much cultivation? Woman B: I would say that it all depends upon the quality of faith you wish to have. A deep and sustaining faith in God does require much nourishment and dedication. Woman A: Do you consider it worth all the effort and dedication you are giving? Woman B: For me it is most rewarding. And I have felt sometimes of late, as one, who having climbed a high mountain, breathes in, for the first time, the fresh, exhilarating air of higher altitude. I look back with much regret upon those former years, although I always believed the gospel was true. At present I am experiencing a spiritual buoyancy,. Completely unknown to the unbeliever, and not to be found in the lowlands of mediocre living. LESSON DEPARTMENT CLASS ACTIVITY Suggest several activities, not mentioned by Woman B., which might build a stronger faith. Discuss other circumstances which might strengthen one's faith or otherwise influence the quality of one's faith. SPIRITUAL BUOYANCY What is this spiritual buoyancy which characterizes the follower of Jesus Christ, but which may not be found in the unbeliever? It is the compass of faith giving direction to a man's life, with courage to meet its vicissitudes. It is the expression of hope, sustaining in time of sorrow: the knowledge of life hereafter that bridges the barrier of death. It is the peace of mind that comforts those who share, one with another. It is the faith that led a boy of fourteen to pray for wisdom in a woodland grove; the dedication to belief that pushed a handcart over miles of prairie sand and over mountain pass to a desert valley. It is the testimony of the humble, filled with gratitude for the blessing of life. It is the song of Zion, triumphant and rejoicing. It is the knowledge that those who keep the divine commandments may know the glory of family continuity in the celestial kingdom. This is the spiritual buoyancy that the Latter-day Saints may radiate to the world! CLASS ACTIVITY From the foregoing paragraph, we list the following, as basic to spiritual buoyancy. You may wish to suggest others. Faith Obedience Courage Hope 15 SEPTEMBER 1966 Knowledge of eternity Peace of mind Dedication to belief Testimony Gratitude THE SPIRITUAL CHRISTMAS What has spirituality to do with Christmas, one might appropriately ask, seeing the rush and flurry of Christmas preparation, seeing the mercenary aspects so definitely emphasized? It has this to do: The Christian celebration of Christmas is based upon that most significant of spiritual happenings—the birth of the Son of God. Although the gospel is designed to bring temporal as well as spiritual blessings, when the materialistic and tangible are excessively emphasized, we may become blind to the spiritual world, deaf to the words of divine counsel, and indifferent to the joys of the more abundant life. The Christmas season may provide incentive for adults seriously to appraise the direction in which their lives are moving, and to discover the values that are important to them. What are you worshipping? Many today worship the golden calf. This appraisal may lead one to see that mere earthly pursuits often may lead to disillusionment and even to moral disaster. The Christmas season provides a very excellent opportunity for mothers to implant religious faith in children. With scenes of the nativity of Jesus, hearing again the story of angel voices that heralded the birth of the Christchild, their believing minds are receptive to the truth that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is the Savior of mankind. To keep this fact 716 uppermost in the minds of children, during the festive celebration of Christmas, is the concern of the mother. CLASS ACTIVITY Suggest ways by which you can keep the central theme of Christmas from being submerged in the materialistic activity of the holiday season. How can you open the hearts of children to the real spirit of Christmas so that Christ's teachings may speak to them and admonish them to: 1. Be a peacemaker. 2. Think kindly thoughts. 3. Be charitable with others—kind to those who may not be their particular friends. 4. Be true to what they believe. 5. Be courageous against wrongdoing and injustices wherever they see them. 6. Believe with all their hearts that Jesus, born in Bethlehem, is Christ the Lord. For eyes that can see beyond the ribboned gift and tinseled tree, there is a wide horizon for the spirit, where the real significance of Christmas is revealed in truth and beauty. The mother whose spirituality impresses her with this truth, may lead her children to see that the gift of gifts, which cannot be tissuewrapped and placed beneath a Christmas tree, is the gift of immortality, made possible by the sacrifice of Jesus, who is the Christ, the Savior, the Redeemer of mankind. Does not the entire family become spiritualized where the mother takes time, even during the rush of Christmas preparations, to share with her children the wonder of the star, to help them better to know the Boy who stayed within the temple court among the rabbis, when the feast was done? There is need for faith to fortify our youth, as well as to sustain those of mature years in today's world of war and stress. Might not the mother say to a departing, patriot son: My son—if ever you should stand As one alone, upon an alien hill While nuclear weapons threaten and confuse, Thinking of home, the long night white and still— You need not stand—a cynic, need not see How doubt cuts deeper than the Herod blade, Or know how dark the skeptic's world can be. Turn back the parchment page and memory-trace His gentle steps beside an inland sea, Follow the multitude on Jordan's plain Who know his healing power; there observe The sick made whole and breath renewed, at Nain. His every word, in each familiar place— Nazareth... Bethsaida... Jerusalem— Will fall into a pattern of belief, The outline luminous and stencilclear, Bright as the noon on hills of Ephraim; A testament of truth in bold relief. Hold his words close, my son, and you will be Faith led, as shepherds were, when roused from sleep LESSON DEPARTMENT By angel-words, above the folds of sheep. (From "Christmas Words—for Today and Tomorrow," by ALBERTA H. CHRISTENSEN) FOR DISCUSSION How do Lesson 3 "Personal Standards" and Lesson 4 "Seek and Ye Shall Find" relate to this lesson on spiritual development? (See the Relief Society Magazine, December 1965 and January 1966.) FOR HOME DOING 1. Read the 1965 Melchizedek Priesthood Quorum lesson No. 18, if available. 2. If possible, have an old-fashioned Christmas Eve, by reading aloud the story of the first Christmas Eve, as found in Luke, Chapter 2. 3. Give the gift of yourself, in a manner you have never before done, to someone less fortunate than yourself. 4. Make your home happy this Yuletide season with the sound of Christmas music that will help set a spiritual climate and leave the heart spiritually refreshed. NOTES TO CLASS LEADER All ideas and illustrations appearing in this lesson contribute to the general objective. The class leader, however, may wish to emphasize some of them even to the exclusion of others as she adapts the lesson material to her particular group. Those residing in the Southern Hemisphere who will study this lesson in May, may resolve to follow the suggestions personally at Christmastime in 1967, when the 1967 educational year has been completed. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. 717 SEE THE WITH Cleon Skousen OCT. 11 DEPARTURE NAME MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST, SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR HOLYLAND TOUR... Me, MURDOCK ADDRESS TRAVEL — STATE SEE UTAH Canyon Land Tours (Labor Day Holiday) Also individual tours of Salt Lake City and surrounding area MEXICO — $99.00 Tours to fit any budget from September to April ALASKA — $280.00 HAWAII — From $399.00 Depart Sept. 3 — Oct. 15 — Nov. 18 SHIP AND AIR TOUR Feb. 23—Mar. 9 Matson United Airlines Make reservations early for ship HAWAII FOUR-ISLAND WINTER PARADISE CRUISE aboard the SS LURLINE Starting at $590 per person Early reservations recommended Departs Jan. 27, 1967 Returns Feb. 12, 1967 ROSE PARADE TOURS 8 day tour 4 day tour y bus Also ask about air tours MEXICO, HAWAII, TAHITI, FIJI, ORIENT, AUSTRALIA and many other exciting places Tour departs in February Tours to Europe From $214 and up MARGARET LUND TOURS 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah Teaching Packet for CULTURAL REFINEMENT CLASS LEADERS... Four full color reproductions of famous art masterpieces... Recording of outstanding musical selections (One 12", 33% rpm record) Price complete... $3.50 postpaid (Not Air Mail) Produced and distributed by Communications Services Division Brigham Young University Provo, Utah 84601 718 328-8982 485-2444 COOK ELECT RIC Pots and pans stay '"'white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAH CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also. Available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Renee Gledhill, Qwner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 BEAUTIFUL NEW ENGLAND-CANADIAN FALL TOUR September 3 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 15 to 30 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Francisco Dec. 27—Jan. 3 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Diego Dec. 27—Jan. 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a@ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain, West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durabie volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone) lwand)2 »..455) jZonevG...:...%.. 90 one 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8 1.20 Zone 5 8 DESERET PEws PRESS 719 _ — Gaptember 3 HANDY DURABLE Mrs. Zina Nielsen Cook Ferron, Utah Mrs. Hannah Encora Batty Elgin, Oregon 99 Mrs. Rebecca Wilson Wilson » S Richfield, Utah Mrs. Annie Seat Hunt Magna, Utah 96 Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Nancy Jane Anderson Lang 'Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Caroline Peterson Larsen: 7 Midvale, Utah Red Bluff, California Mrs. Ella Wilhe! Stuart Mrs. Minna Mandelkow Kirchoff —— — City,-Utah. = Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Betha Mallan Schmidt W Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Anna Barfuss Rindlisbacher Dutson Mrs. Annie N. Merrill Amalga, Utah Preston, Idaho HER WAY lris W. Schow | moved the little radio From beside her chair, its usual place, And books crept like encroaching grass Across the shelf and filled the space. 720 102 Mrs. Lucinda Pace Redd Monticello, Utah 99 Mrs. Louis Rappleye Hunter Nelson Las Vegas, Nevada Nephi, Utah Milford, Utah Mrs. Harriet Elizabeth Coffen Mattish Stockton, California P Miss Mary Jane T. Thackeray Salt Lake City, Utah 9] Salt Lake City, Utah 9 Mrs. Mary Nelson Hoopes Mrs. Sarah Virgin Shirley Mrs. Emma Elizabeth Richards F Mrs. Katherine Sontag Georgetown, Massachusetts Mrs. Ida Mae Briles Heryford DESERET BOOK OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. Il By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 Postpaid anywhere This new book, patterned after the successful first volume, is themed to "Love, Marriage, and the Family." The material will be used with the Cultural Refinement course. Full-color illustrations enhance the choice literature and discussion materials prepared by Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas. SPECIAL PICTURE PACKET FOR SPIRITUAL LIVING A wonderful and colorful way of brightening up your Spiritual Living lessons... Making them more meaningful and memorable. Includes copies of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, a paintings, and colorful pictures depicting the work of the Church ABS —F Deseret Book OM PANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE. CALIFORNIA Sendme []OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. Il [] PICTURE PACKET-—SPIRITUAL LIV - Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 34% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. Total $._. Name Address City... Staten. LESSONS chart showing the growth of the Church, reproductions of famous today. OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! - ia $1.25 Postpaid anywhere Raion Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Your Beneficial Life dollars work for you... And for your community Do you have a Beneficial Life Family Plan that protects you, parents and all the childre... Even those who may come along later? If so," then you know how the dollars you" invested in Beneficial Life work for you. But did you know that these same dollars, invested by the company in corporate and m nicipal bonds, help provide a wide variety of community services? Electricity is just 0 example. It's there at the flick of a finger, whenever we want it, to make our evening brighter, or to power an industrial complex, or to run BENEFICIAL LIFE the tiny motor for that future investor in the family. Prsurance Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake Ciry, Utah *{f you don't have a Beneficial Life Family Plan, call your nearest Beneficial agent soon! You'll be giad you did. 'Relief Society "aoe Volume 53 Number. Q. The cabin "stands abandoned, silent. Now, No cheery bustle marring its repose. Yet it seems waiting, tistening somehow For voices that it knew. It seems to doze Fitfully, for soon — it must surely be!— Footsteps will tramp the brushy path once more, And from its ancient hiding place the key 'Be brought, and the door grate wide on a sandy floor. But now the waiting hours bring only these: Leaf-brown birds that twitter all day long About small painted houses in the trees, Hung there when the cabin, too, knew song. Its windows are boarded, blind to sun and moon. But the wrens return! And surely, some day soon... The Cover: § Road In Autumn Transparency by Lucien B. Brown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: @ Cabin in the Canyon, Provo River, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: @ Dick Scopes Illustrations: §§ Mary Scopes | want you to know that we did enjoy the poem ''Place of Prayer,'' by Marilyn McMeen Miller (May 1966). We have read and enjoyed other poems which she has written. Mrs. W. Lloyd Adams Rexburg, Idaho | feel especially grateful for the Magazine today, because, as | was reading it, | thought of the letter we received from our son Spence who is serving in the Guatemala-El Salvador Mission. In response to my letter of last spring, telling him that The Relief Society Magazine would be printed in Spanish, beginning with the June issue, he said: ''Mother, the sisters down here are so anxious and happy that they are going to have The Relief Society Magazine printed in Spanish. They have never had anything like it, and can't even imagine what it will be like to have access to the Magazine." Ann P. Lloyd, President Bannock Stake Relief Society Central, Idaho | have received the Spanish Relief Society Magazine (for June 1966). Congratulations on the truly adequate translation. This is a difficult thing to do to duplicate an English version of a magazine. You have done a superb work. Wilma Logan Hutchinson, Kansas | live about 500 air miles from the nearest Latter-day Saints Church here in the Philippines, so you can imagine how we miss the wonderful companionship and inspiration of our usual work in a ward. | have been receiving the wonderful Relief Society Magazine and its messages of love and inspiration make me feel closer to the Church. | loan my Magazine to those who are interested, and they are thrilled with the messages from its pages. Louise A. Bell Diatagon, Surigao Del Sur Mindanao, Philippine Islands 722 Sister Taylor's "Three Women" (May 1966, by Celestia J. Taylor) was a choice article, and | thought of my dear, sweet grandmothers,, and my mother, dear soul. | liked "Look for the Small Clues'' (by Kaye T. Roberts) and ''Much of Worth—The Relief Society Magazine"' (by Mabel L. Anderson). The story 'The Old Stove' (by Lael J. Littke) brought back true and fond memories. Next, | noted the record of our dear Glendale Stake—so high on the Magazine Honor Roll. Today, the May issue was written only for me. Ofa Winward Schimmer Glendale, California Today there came to my home a sweet messenger—The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. It thrilled me to hold it in my hands, as | had been hoping for a long time to be able to read it when | saw it in English, and now it is possible for all the Spanishspeaking women to enjoy the benefits of such a_ beautiful Magazine. For many years | belonged to the Rosario Centro Branch Relief Society in Argentina, and now being able to read the Magazine here in Salt Lake City, it seems to me that | am closer to them, because we now have something in common to unite us—The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. Claudina E. H. Guzman Salt Lake City, Utah | always enjoy the Magazine, especially the stories by Lael J. Littke. | am sure her story ''The Old Stove' (May 1966) brought back much nostalgia to many who read it. To me it brought tears, and | hope to many who know Lael— the dozens who have been in their kitchen by the old stove.! T is not an easy thing to leave those mountains and creeks and apple trees—even if you didn't have Old Hirschvogel! A special thanks from one uprooted Mink Creeker to another for this special story. Brucia Crane Hazelton, Idaho Th Relief Society wesecine Volume 53 October 1966 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp. Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 724 Strength Through Obedience Thomas S. Monson 729 Seed Corn Elsie Sim Hansen Fiction 731 Roses—Tomorrow Sylvia Probst Young 740 The Good Samaritan Becky Dawn Wood 743 The Complex Kathryn E. Franks 766 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 4 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 722 From Near and Far 736 Editorial: '""With Their Concentrated Efforts" Marianne C. Sharp 738 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 739 LaRue H. Rosell Resigns From the General Board 772 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 800 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out "Let Thy Food be Prepared with Singleness of Heart,' Helen Seymour, 749; Let's Make Strawberry Jam, Ida A. Isaacson, 752; How to Sew Nylon Tricot, Ethel Maturale, 752; Crepe Paper Costumes, Shirley Thulin, 753; A Patch of Dirt, Vera Stocker, 755; A Country Walk, Joyce R. Gillming, 756; Life's Entanglements, Amy G. Bond, 757; The Climber, Helen Hinckley Jones, 758; Our Children Earn Their Allowances, Helen M. Peterson, 760; Speak to People, Patricia Middleton Faas, 763; Recipe for Punch Base, Caroline Asay, 763; Hints for Homemaking, [uy Houtz Woolley, 764; Hestella Kuttler Creates Beauty with Crochet Hook and Knitting Needles, 765. Lesson Department 779 Spiritual Living—How to Act Amid Persecution Roy W. Doxey 785 Visiting Teacher Message—'"'Ask and Ye Shall Receive" Alice Colton Smith 786 Homemaking—Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Celestia J. Taylor 789 Social Relations—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen 794 Cultural Refinement—Humility Yields Strength Robert K. Thomas Poetry 721 The Cabin in the Canyon Ethel Jacobson Offering for Peace, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 727; Tree House, Alda L. Brown, 728; In Your Name, Dorothy J. Roberts, 730; Afternoon of a Small Boy, Margery S. Stewart, 735; How Wonderful, Lela Morris, 739; Unto the Heart, Linnie F. Robinson, 742; My Heart Would Break, Maude O. Cook, 747; Homecoming, Enid F. Woolley, 748; The Blessing, Catherine B. Bowles, 756; From a Mother's Heart, Kathryn Kay, 759; A Lullaby, Christie Lund Coles, 759; The Golden Grain, Gladys Hesser Burnham. 762; Jeweled Trap, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 763; Serenity, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 764; A Box of Days, Dorothy O. Rea, 771; The Open Door, Verda F.. Welch, 798. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts wil! Not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. tay one ak iP PON CP DPA PAYA ee a;. AS Os ee Ses oes AS YASS FASS VE ES ue::, } Aye ia f ah ' " - SSS 5 SS Oo — bd Ss, 754 SS 75} "lL 'iee we ee L~wod el os, = ~a mh) A; yin or "ear In today's world, the accent is on youth. Everyone wants to look young, feel young, and be young. No one seems to prefer old age. Indeed, vast sums of money are expended each year for products which will hopefully restore the youthful look. Well might we ask ourselves, "Is the search for youth new to our day, our generation?" We need but to thumb the pages of history to find our answer. Centuries ago in that great age of exploration, expeditions were outfitted and ships containing confident and adventurous crews set sail upon uncharted seas in search of a literal "fountain of youth." The legend of the day rumored that somewhere in the great beyond there was a magical fountain containing the purest of water. All one had to do to regain the vibrancy of youth and to perpetuate this vigor was to drink deeply of the flowing waters from this fountain. 724 Elder Thomas S. Monson of The Council of the Twelve Ponce de Leon, who sailed wi Columbus, made _— subseque voyages of exploration in | trust of the legend that thi youthful elixir could be fow somewhere among the Baham Islands. His efforts, like those o many others, yielded no such discovery. For, in the divine plan of our God, we enter mortal existence and taste of youth but once. Although there is no "fountain of youth" which we may wisely seek, there is another fountain containing more precious water, even the waters of eternal life. Such is the "fountain of truth." The poet captured the real significance of the search for truth when he wrote these immortal lines: Oh say, what is truth? 'Tis the brightest prize To which mortals or Gods can aspire; Go search in the depths where it glittering lies Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies. *Tis an aim for the noblest desire. Then say, what is truth? 'Tis the last and the first, For the limits of time it steps o'er. Though the heavens depart and the earth's fountains burst, Truth, the sum of existence, will weather the worst, Eternal, unchanged, evermore. ('Oh say, What Is Truth?" from Hymns, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, page 143.) In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in May of 1933, the Lord declared:... Truth is knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come.... The spirit of truth is of God. He [Jesus] received a fulness of truth... And no man receiveth a fulness unless he keepeth his commandments. He that keepeth his commandments receiveth truth and light, until he is glorified in truth and knoweth all things (D&C 93:24, 26- 28). No need for you or me in this enlightened age, when the fulness of the gospel has been restored, to sail uncharted seas or travel unmarked roads in search of the "fountain of truth." For a loving Heavenly Father has plotted our course and provided an unfailing map — obedience. His revealed word vividly describes the blessings which obedience brings and the inevitable heartache and despair that accompany the traveler who detours along the forbidden pathways of sin and error. To a generation steeped in the tradition of animal sacrifice, Samuel boldly declared: "... To obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams" (I Samuel 15:22). The prophets, ancient and modern, have known the strength that comes through obedience. STRENGTH THROUGH OBEDIENCE Think of Nephi: "... I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded..." (I Nephi 3:7). Or Alma's beautiful description of the strength possessed by the sons of Mosiah: _... They had waxed strong in a knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God (Alma 17:2, 3). President David O. McKay, in his opening message to the membership of the Church at a general conference (April 1957) stated very simply and yet so powerfully, "Keep the commandments of God." Such was the burden of our Savior's message, when he declared: ''For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world" (D&C 132:5). No one can criticize the Master's instruction. His very actions give credence to his words. He demonstrated genuine love of God by living the perfect life; by honoring the sacred mission that was his. Never was he haughty. Never was he puffed up with pride. Never was he disloyal. Ever was he humble. Ever was he sincere. Ever was he true. Though he was led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by that master of deceit, even the devil; though he was 725 OCTOBER 1966 physically weakened from fasting forty days and forty nights and was an hungered; yet when the evil one proffered Jesus the most alluring and tempting proposals, he gave to us a divine example of obedience by refusing to deviate from what he knew was right. When faced with the agony of Gethsemane, where he endured such pain that his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground, he exemplified the obedient Son by saying, "... Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42). To Peter at Galilee, Jesus said, "Follow me." To Philip came the same instruction, "Follow me." And to the publican, Levi, who was sitting at receipt of customs, came the beckoning call, "Follow me." Even to one who came running after him, one who had great possessions, came the _ words, "Follow me." And to you and to me that same voice, this same Jesus says, "Follow me." Are we willing to obey? Obedience is a hallmark of prophets, but it should be realized that this source of strength is available to us today. One who had learned well the lesson of obedience, who had found the "fountain of truth," was a kind and sincere man of humble means and_ circumstances. He had _ joined the Church in Europe and, by diligently saving and sacrificing, had emigrated to North America — to a new land, a strange language, different customs, but the same Church under the leadership of the same Lord whom he trusted and obeyed. He became 726 the branch president of a little flock of struggling saints in a somewhat unfriendly city of tens of thousands. He followed the program of the Church, although members were few and_ tasks were many. He set an example for his branch membership that was truly Christ-like, and they responded with a love so rarely seen. He earned a living with his hands as a tradesman. His means were limited, but he always paid more than a tenth of his total earnings as tithing. He started a missionary fund in his little branch, and for months at a time he was the only contributor. When there were missionaries in his city he fathered and fed them, and they never left his house without some tangible donation to their work and welfare. Church members from far away who passed through his city and visited his branch always received his hospitality and the warmth of his spirit and went on their way knowing they had met an unusual man, one of the Lord's obedient servants. Those who presided over him received his profound respect and his extra special care. To him they were emissaries of the Lord; their wish was his command. He ministered to their physical comforts and was especially solicitous in his prayers, which were frequent, for their welfare. One Sabbath day, some visiting officials to his branch participated with him in no fewer than a dozen prayers in various meetings and visits to members. They left him at the day's end with a feeling of exhilaration and spiritual uplift which kept them joyous throughout a four-hour drive in wintry weather and which ' now, after many years, warms the spirit and quickens the heart in retrospection. Men of learning, men of experience sought out this humble, unlettered man of God and counted themselves fortunate if they could spend an hour with him. His appearance was ordinary, his English was halting and somewhat difficult to understand, his home was unpretentious. He didn't own a car or a television, he wrote no books and preached no polished sermons and did none of the things to which the world usually pays attention. Yet the faithful beat a path to his door. Why? Because they wished to drink at his "fountain of truth'; not so much what he said as what he did; not the substance of the sermons he preached, but the strength of the life he led. To know that a poor man consistently and cheerfully gave at least twice a tenth to the Lord gave one a clearer insight into STRENGTH THROUGH OBEDIENCE the true meaning of tithing. To see him minister to the hungered and take in the stranger made one know that he did it as he would do so to the Master. To pray with him and partake of his confidence of divine intercession was to experience a new medium of communication. Well could it be said he kept the first and great commandment, and the second which is like unto it, that his bowels were full of charity toward all men, that virtue garnished his thoughts unceasingly and, consequently, his confidence waxed strong in the presence of God. This man had the glow of goodness and the radiance of righteousness. His strength came from obedience. The strength which we eamestly seek today to meet the challenges of a complex and changing world can be ours when, with fortitude and resolute courage, we stand and declare with Joshua, "... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord'' (Joshua 24:15). OFFERING FOR PEACE Mabel Jones Gabbott Then Moses came when it was dark and still, Before the sun had tipped the jagged peak Of Sinai, and day was but a streak Of pink, and built an altar near the hill; And made an offering for peace, to fill The measure of the law. He came to seek Forgiveness for his people's wrong and speak In their behalf, that they would do God's will. And now before the lucent heavens trace The dawn, | humbly kneel. O Lord, impart Thy peace to me; and seeking to erase My sin from memory's sand, I, too, will chart Thy law upon my mountain, learn thy grace, And, penitent, will write it on my heart. 727 DOROTHY J. ROBERTS 728 TREE HOUSE Alda L. Brown Let your unleashed dreams run rampant In that house of yours.... So high, secluded—your world alone. And let your boundless fancies Unlimited soar.... For today you are a Conqueror! A King upon a throne! Let saw and hammer loud proclaim The zeal with which you work. Let every part of your domain Reveal your gifted art! For too soon there will be a brand-new dream With a grown-up blue-print plan — Combined with all this energy That will make my son.... A man! A Autumn had already etched the countryside in gold and red, the Saturday morning I went to visit my Grandfather and Grandmother Hendersen on their farm. I found my grandfather busy husking corn out in the barn. Thinking it looked like fun, and that I might get an opportunity to hear another one of grandfather's pioneer stories, I asked, "Grandpa, how about letting me help you?" With a twinkle in his blue eyes, grandpa said, "Sure you can, Susie. Get one of those apple boxes over there in the corner, so you will have something to sit on, and I will show you how to pull the husks off." I had been visiting with grandfather for only a few minutes, when I saw him single out an ear of corn and, after removing the Elsie Sim Hansen husk, he turned the ear over and over several times, and _ then, walking over to the barn door, where the sun was shining in, he adjusted his glasses and examined the ear again. When he returned he placed the ear in a small box. He tossed the other ears we had husked into a bin. I looked puzzled for a moment, and then I said, "Grandpa, why did you examine that ear of corn so carefully?" Grandpa looked serious for a moment. "My eyesight isn't as good as it could be, and I can't take any chance of not putting good corn in this box. This is my seed corn." "What makes seed corm?" I asked. "I can't see any difference in the corn." Grandpa put his hand on my shoulder. "I can see you wouldn't make much of a farmer, Susie. Seed corn must not have any blemishes of any kind, no worms, no dry rot, and no mold." I looked at the ear I had in my hand for a second, and then I asked, "Grandpa, is there something wrong with this ear?" Grandpa took the ear and, 729 OCTOBER 1966 after looking at it for a moment, he answered, "See, here is a small kernel that has dry rot at the bottom." "But the spot is so tiny I can't see that it would make any difference after the corm was planted in the ground, as the old seed rots anyway, doesn't it?" "Yes, Susie, it does, but not before it sends up tiny new shoots like the parent seed. If the parent seed has blemishes, the new corn will probably have some also." 'Why does all this corn in the bin have flaws, Grandpa, when you are so careful about the kind you plant?" Grandpa stood up straight and stretched as he spoke, "It is almost impossible to get perfect seed, Susie. I was also in a hurry when I sprayed the corn the first time last spring. I didn't wait until the proper time when there wasn't any wind. Some of the spray was carried away where it couldn't do any good. That is what happens when we become impatient. It takes a lot of patience to be a good farmer." "TI guess it takes a lot of patience to be a good mother and father doesn't it, Grandpa? I heard mother tell daddy that David and I would try the patience of Job." Grandpa chuckled as he sat down, ''Yes, Susie, it does take a lot of patience to do anything worthwhile in this life, farming or rearing a family." Grandpa looked at me and his gaze held mine, as I said, "'Grandpa, would you say that daddy and mother were good seed?" Grandpa _ looked _ surprised. '"'What makes you ask a question like that, Susie?" "You said a few minutes ago that if the parent seed was good, the new plant would be, also, and David and I sure do have a lot of flaws in us. Daddy and mother haven't any spray that they can use on us either." For a moment I thought grandpa was going to laugh at me, as his mouth quirked at the corners, but he didn't. He just said, "Yes, I think your parents are very good seed, Susie, and I used quite a number of fine sprays on your mother when she was growing up, not liquid sprays like I use on the corn, but the kind that is most useful on people." I stopped husking com and looked up at grandpa with a feeling of relief, ""What kind of spray did you use? I don't think I have ever heard of any." Grandpa looked around me and out the barn door, as if he was trying to remember, and then he said thoughtfully, "Faith and prayer were the two I used most frequently. Understanding, and a sense of humor, self-control, and good hard work I used often. Sometimes, when one wouldn't work, I would try a combination of them all, and everything would turn out fine." IN YOUR NAME Dorothy J. Roberts | took the petaled summer in your name, Who sowed me with the seeds of your own strength; And since you taught me once to walk through flame I need not fear this lonely autumn's length. 730 Roses ~ Tomorrow iy A Sylvia Probst Young With loving care Marian spaded the hard, sunbaked soil around each aster plant. Beside her the warm fingers of a morning breeze played lightly in her hair, and brought the sweet smell of blossoming locust and rose. Beauty was everywhere, and it was good work in a garden. According to Paul she was a greenthumber. "Anything you stick in the ground will i wv e grow," he had often said. —s Paul would be at the hospital now. He had left early—before she was awake. Probably he had breakfasted there as he so often did. Going early was part of his life as a doctor. Some mornings she was awake and would make his breakfast before he left, but if she was asleep, he would slip out quietly. It was a pattern he had established during the first i to be alive on such a day and to; —dz years of their marriage, when her health had been so poor, and he had wanted to let her get as much rest as she could. But she had never liked to eat alone, and it seemed that the day was always better when she could visit with Paul for a few minutes at its beginning. "Hi!" A small girl on a tricycle 73) OCTOBER 1966 wheeled across the yard, and Marian looked up from her digging to smile at the honey-blond youngster, who was proudly displaying a new pink denim play dress. "Hello there, Sue," Marian greeted her little neighbor, "what a pretty new dress." "My mama bought it yesterday at Handley's," the child announced with pride. "Do you have any cookies?" "Oh, I think so," Marian answered cheerily. "Soon as ['m finished here, we'll go in and find some for you." "You had better go in now," the little girl told her, "because the phone is ringing." Sve was right, and Marian dropped her trowel, with a promise to return with a treat. "Mother!" The voice on the other end of the line was a little plaintive. ""Where have you been? I've let the phone ring and ring." "Oh, Sheri, hello, dear! I was out weeding my asters, and I got so busy with it, I didn't hear."' "Well, I called to say, happy anniversary, and to remind you and Daddy that you're coming up for dinner tonight. You hadn't forgotten, had you?" "Not really, but D've hardly seen your father for a week. It seems that he gets busier as the days go by — there are so many people in hospitals these days. But how are you, dear?" "Fine. I'm going to Relief Society in a few minutes. It's homemaking meeting day, and we're doing a quilt. The boys have gone with Tom to the field. I gave them a lunch to take along." "They'll like that." 732 "Oh, yes, and they took their fishing poles, too, so they should have fun at the creek.... Well, I'd better go, Mom. Do you think you can be here by 6:30?" "We should if we leave at 5:30. Your father is going to be at the hospital all day, but he should be home by five. Thanks, dear, we'll see you then." As she hung up the phone, Marian thought of their anniversary. She hadn't really remembered it, and Paul hadn't either, or he would have said so. A doctor's life was so busy, day and night. She looked around her spotless, electric kitchen. They were financially well fixed now, but there had been a time when things were quite different. The years, thirty of them since she had been a bride, had brought joy and sorrows. How well she remembered the time she first saw Paul. It was at a Christmas dance in Clarksdale. She was a teacher there, and he had come home from medical school for the holidays. They had been immediately attracted to each other, and he had convinced her to stay in Clarksdale for Christmas. Then romance had flowered through letters after that. On two or three special ocasions Paul had managed to get home for a week-end, and by the end of the school year, he had asked her to marry him. They were married while he was interning, and when he was ready to go into private practice he had chosen to go home to Clarksdale and be a country doctor. There was only old Doctor Tippetts in Clarksdale then, and he was nearing seventy. "Tt's where I feel I belong, for awhile anyway," he explained, "and they need me." How much they needed him! In Paul's office now there was a picture he had found in a magazine, a picture of a doctor on a winter night, his car left on the road, plowing on foot through a snowy lane to get to a lonely farmhouse. "Tt couldn't be more you if a photographer had taken it,'"' she mused, when he showed it to her. He smiled, agreeing. "The big old house on the hill — exactly like Jensen's and me going up there through the snow to doctor their croupy twins." There had been four feet of snow that winter in Clarksdale, and it seemed as if two-thirds of the population had been sick and needed a doctor. Paul was gone all hours of the day and night. At first she would wait up for him, but when she was expecting the baby he made her promise to go to bed. THE role of a doctor's wife was a lonely one, and the anticipation of a baby brought gladness to both of them. They both loved children and had decided that they wanted a big family. But they were to have only one little girl. Sheri, however, was the sunshine of their lives. "We couldn't be happier if we had a dozen," Paul had said so many times, as his dark eyes loved the small, sunny-haired moppet. When Sheri was five, Paul had a wonderful opportunity to go into practice with an established doctor he had known in school days. For Marian, city bred, who had never liked the cold, dreary winters of Clarksdale, it was the ROSES—TOMORROW chance of a lifetime. Paul, she knew, had loved his little home town, and if he had thought only of himself they might still have been there, but always Sheri and she were his first consideration. Now his practice had grown until it was almost too big to handle. In Clarksdale he would always have been a small town country doctor, but here on the staff of Pineview Hospital he had grown and progressed, until last year he had been made chief of staff. Financially, they had no worries, and Paul, with the love of the country a vital part of him, had bought a farm just outside of Clarksdale. When Sheri and Tom were married they moved out to run it, and whenever possible Paul and she spent time there with Sheri's little boys, riding and fishing—all of the things an outdoor man loved. A gentle knocking turned Marian's attention to Susie and the cookies, but her thoughts were on their anniversary. Paul usually sent roses to her. Maybe he had forgotten, but maybe he hadn't — the day was still young. As she opened the door, Susie's mother, who always reminded her of Sheri, came across the yard. "This child of mine is a positive beggar," the younger woman pronounced with exasperation. Marian laughed. "I love her, Pat. We don't see Sheri's boys near often enough, and I enjoy Susie so much." The other sighed. "Life's funny, isn't it? Most of the time my three have me in a tizzy, and I'm envying you your peace and quiet. I guess we're never quite satisfied." "And we all have so much to 733 OCTOBER 1966 be satisfied with," Marian philosophized. She thought about it after her neighbor had gone and a warm feeling filled her heart. Paul would be home at five, they would go to Sheri's, and that would make the day perfect. When the weeding was finished she hurried into the house. She would finish the swirl she had started for Sheri. That would be a nice surprise. And then she would drive over to Center Street and get some orange sticks for the boys. The time went quickly, but by four o'clock the swirl was finished, carefully pressed, and gaily wrapped, and the orange sticks were waiting to be given to three eager little boys. Now she would shower and be ready, so that she could help Paul when he came. At quarter to five the phone rang. "Mrs. Markham, this is the hospital calling," a crisp feminine voice announced. "Doctor Markham asked me to call you. There's ° been a terrible accident — four teenagers, in critical condition. The doctor's in surgery now; doesn't know when he'll be home." Disappointment and a sudden resentment filled Marian's being. A doctor's life was never really his own, not even on an anniversary. I ought to be resigned to this kind of thing, she thought. Leaving a note by the kitchen sink, she picked up her packages and went out to the car. She would go alone. She had had to do so many things alone so many times. Afternoon shadows lay in cool patterns along the road, a quiet calm filled the air; and, as she 734 drove along, the resentment disappeared. Paul would have wanted to go with her more than anything else, she knew that, but he was a dedicated physician, and she was proud that he was. "We are never quite satisfied," her neighbor had said. And, thinking about it, she concluded that surely satisfaction was the product of selflessness, and selflessness was a labor of love. THE sun was low in the western sky when Marian arrived at the farm where Sheri and her family were waiting, with dinner ready. "Isn't Grandpa coming?" The boys were keenly disappointed. Sheri, too, was deflated. "We never can count on Daddy," she exclaimed, "and it's been this way as long as I can remember. He'd be called out of a show or a concert or a party, or he'd have an operation and couldn't go. Don't you get really sick of it, Mother?" Marian smiled gently. "Your father\belongs to a vast group of dedicated, unselfish people, Sheri. There are bishops and Relief Society presidents, stake presidents, and all of the General Authorities of the Church. They're all on call, you know. Your father has taken an oath of honor, we wouldn't be proud of him if he didn't live up to it." "T know that," Sheri conceded, "but this was quite a special day, Mother." "Well, let's be happy, knowing that he would like to be here if he could," Tom reasoned.... "And how about eating? We're all starved." Sheri had baked chicken and new peas and potatoes from the garden, along with young, green onions, icicle radishes, and tiny carrots. She served dinner on the patio, and Marian couldn't remember when she had enjoyed a meal quite so much. The charm of the country twilight stole softly around them. From the meadow below came the call of a night bird and the croaking of frogs. Marian was loath to go. "But I didn't tell your father I was going to stay," she explained, when they protested. She had started to the car when the ringing of the telephone from inside interrupted. "It could be Daddy." Sheri ran to answer it. When she returned moments later, she was smiling. "Dad can always make me feel happy, no matter what," she said, ''and he wants to talk to you, Mom." "Marian," his voice came over the wire full of apology, "I'm sorry, honey. This has been one ROSES—TOMORROW bad day. I've had many operations. I was just getting ready to come home, and then this, but I think they're going to be all right, given time. "T really hadn't forgotten what day it is, either. I was going to send you flowers, too, and I just got bogged down with things. "But you know, don't you, that I'd be lost without you? Just coming home like this without you here, I realize how much you've meant to me all these years — how much I love you and need you." Marian's voice was warm with contentment. "I'm on my way home right now," she said. "No, Marian, don't come tonight, it's too late to drive so far alone. You stay, and I'll drive up tomorrow afternoon. I'll bring you roses, too. All nght?" "All right," she answered. Softly. You are a snowflake posed upon the wind, So briefly held upon the air. AFTERNOON OF A SMALL BOY Margery S. Stewart In my palm you rest, but not for long; All my fierce longings hang like broken chains. Let the world dazzle with its carousels, You hear the silver horses pawing stars. In you the holy secrets burst like flowers, You mark horizons hidden to my eyes. But | am bitter why and heavy where Unreconciled, | strive to bolt the days. | pull the moments back, drag at the hours, But in your quiet integrity you stand. How small you are... So newly, gladly formed. Here we wait, two friends at the station, Hearing afar off the sable train. Your shadow, delicate on unretentive tile, Stands on my own and we are one awhile. 735 EDITORIAL Volume 53 October 1966 Number 10 @ Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C.. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtie R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P, Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West /ith their A century and a quarter of obscuring mists blur the recognition of the kindly deeds of the women during the early days of the restored gospel. One only learns of an incident here and there. In 1842, however, came the gift of the Lord to his beloved daughters through the Prophet Joseph Smith—the divine establishment of Relief Society — the organization through which the needy, the poor, the sick, the downhearted, the discouraged, were to be looked after in the years ahead. The Prophet himself wrote, following the first meeting of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received... Has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil,. And possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC lV:567-568). concentrated efforts The sufferings were ameliorated and, as the Prophet said, through 'their concentrated efforts.'' Hitherto a neighbor's want was cared for as her condition became known, hereafter efforts were concentrated and directed. Systematic visiting discovered needs and brought help and relief. The kindly and soul-sustaining deeds of the women of Mormondom since that time glow brightly through the mists of the past in steady, warming colors as preserved in the sacred records of Relief Society. Studying minute books, the relief and care of the poor are found recorded. One can even follow an individual woman's record and observe her deeds of mercy, her generosity in her contributions of service, of food, and, later, in a monetary way, down the years. As differing conditions have arisen in the Church, Relief Society, as directed by the Priesthood of God, has gladly accepted new assignments. No longer do visiting teachers collect money for the charity fund, as the Church Priesthood Welfare Program became strong, but Relief Society continues to sew for the naked and preserve food for the hungry. In 1942, on the one hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, The First Presidency wrote to Relief Society: ''No other woman's organization in all the earth has had such a birth. This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another." Today, throughout the world where the Church is organized, over 287,000 faithful, devoted members accept the responsibility in consecration to service and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God. In the directed program today of Correlation, Relief Society is training every member to be a better wife, a better homemaker, a more cultured woman, and to encourage the holding of Family Home Evenings. No basic work of Relief Society, as divinely established, has ever been taken away but, with changing times and through inspired Priesthood direction, Relief Society members of the Church are called to fill the current need and to move forward as one in every accomplishment. While individual goodness and service underlie the work, it is only through the organization of the women in the divinely inspired Relief Society that the needs of all are ameliorated. —M. C. S. AS (: SV Vomans Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Gina Bachauer, a native of Greece now residing in London, is one of the world's most brilliant women pianists. After playing with the Utah Symphony in March 1965, she suggested to the officials of the Athens Festival, which sponsors the finest talent in the arts during the summer months, that they invite the Utah Symphony to play in Greece. Thus was set in motion the planning for. The symphony's European tour in September. To: the public's delight, Miss Bachauer played with the orchestra in Athens, Salonika, and London. Virginia') Tanner, nationally famed children's dance director, won high praise from world-famous choreographer and: dancer José Limon, who said: 'There isn't anywhere in the world—and | include New York, London, Paris, and Moscow—that has anyone who can touch her genius for teaching children the exciting purity in the dancing arts. And | know." A Latter-day Saint, Miss Tanner (in private life Mrs. Robert: B.. Bennett) has attributed to her husband, fifteen-yearold daughter; and six-year-old son, the inspiration in her creative work. Sarah Hunt, nineteen, of Springfield, Ohio, who has been blind since she was three years old, plays the piano, recorder, guitar, autoharp, and dulcimer. She attends Wittenberg University and works in one of the dining halls, sorting silver. In July, she went as an alto with the widely publicized seventy-five voice Wittenberg choir on a round-the-world tour. 738 Elizabeth Borton de Trevino received the Newberry Medal for children's literature for 1965 for her book "'l, Juan de Pareja." Dr. Muriel Hughes, a general practitioner from Colwyn Bay, North Wales, and Dr. Catherine Williams, a nose, ear, and throat specialist from Abergele, North Wales, were among the doctors who attended the Tenth Congress of the Medical Women's _ International Federation at Rochester, New York, in June. One purpose was to encourage more young women to study medicine in order to relieve the world shortage of doctors. Mrs. Asmar Salakhova, of Armenia, thought to be the oldest women alive, is believed to have been born in 1812, the year Napoleon invaded Russia. Miss Helen Gossett, a veteran social worker with the New York's United Hospital Fund, spoke at a meeting of the American Nursing Home Association in Washington in July. Having visited many of the average nursing homes in the United States, she says that the lot of many of the elderly, "isolated and infirm," is 'apathy, despair, and a longing for death."' She blames this situation largely on the "youth-oriented" American public, which expects people simply to withdraw from life at age sixty-five. (We cannot but contrast this attitude with the philosophy of the Church, which encourages mental and physical activity as long as possible, and also a self-sustaining program for workers as long as possible.) LaRue H. Rosell Resigns from The General Board The General Board of Relief Society regrets that LaRue H. Rosell, who was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society September 2, 1959, has submitted her resignation which became effective August 3, 1966. She has served willingly and faithfully in all the assignments which have been given to her over the past several years. She has served on the literature (cultural refinement) committee; the social science (social relations) committee; the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest committee, and has filled many other assignments with graciousness, efficiency, and devotion. Sister Rosell has won the love of her associates of the General Board, and has visited many Relief Society organizations giving wise counsel and inspiration to the sisters, who have appreciated her sweet spirit. Wherever she has met with the sisters she has uplifted them and has given them a greater desire to serve the world-wide sisterhood with increased devotion. The best wishes of the General Board of Relief Society, and of the Relief Society membership throughout the Church, are extended to Sister Rosell. May she find much happiness and contentment in all her future endeavors, and may Relief Society always be a joy to her and a fulfillment. HOW WONDERFUL Lela Morris How wonderful that | have eyes to see Pale mauve and shell pink skies at break of day When dancing aspen leaves are faintly musical, With errant fingers of pine-scented wind; When robins call to neighbors in their nests, And ail the waking birds make twitterings. And far above, in the domed roof of earth, Clouds drift on farflung measures of blue; Day wanes and blazing fire of western skies Casts glory on majestic, snow-capped peaks And after dusk, black velvet of the night, Studded with galaxies of shining gems. How wonderful that | have eyes to see Breathtaking splendor he creates for me. 739 The Good Samaritan Becky Dawn Wood @I was returning from Jerusalem to my home in Jericho. I had just spent a very successful month selling my wares. My business takes me to our magnificent city of Jerusalem about four times a year. There, the rich Sadducee women welcome my coming, for they delight in seeing the latest patterns and textures of materials, some of which I import from Egypt and lands beyond Decapolis. The wives of Roman officers, who abound in this city and who are used to the fineries of Rome, thrill when I have for them to drape upon their shoulders that strange sheer cloth through which one can see. In all humbleness, I am quite a well-to-do cloth merchant. I travel all over the land of Judea 740 selling my cloth and rugs to anyone from peasant woman to nobleman's lady. Sometimes, I even venture to the coastal city of Caesarea which lies in Samaria. Of course on these journeys I always travel by ship, for never would I tread over that foul and unsafe land of the corrupt Samaritans. But the market is so good in Caesarea that I am almost forced to make these rare visitations. I must tell you that my wares decorate the summer homes of many high Roman officials who vacation there. My caravan, which consists of eight donkeys, two servants, three guards, and myself, was traveling on the dusty road to Jericho when a centurion and his company of an hundred soldiers joined us. I learned from the centurion that they were on their way to the borderland of Samaria and Judea to stop some fighting that had broken out between the Jews and Samaritans. Although thieves were few, because of Rome's oppressive measures, and it was almost safe to travel alone, I inquired of the centurion if my caravan might go with his army as far as Jericho, to which he consented. We traveled until the sun was no longer burning upon us and the sky had grown faintly dim. The centurion called his soldiers to a halt and informed me that they would spend the night at the village which we were approaching. To this reasonable suggestion, I readily agreed. The soldiers would camp that night in the town square, my servants would sleep in the stables in order to watch over the donkeys, and I decided to spend the night at the only inn that the small village afforded for the convenience of weary travelers. The people of the wayside town were used to Roman soldiers and caravans, so our arrival caused little commotion, and life in the town went on as if no outsiders had come. I was up in my room washing the dust from my feet and getting myself ready to eat the evening meal when, beneath my window, I heard awful groans— like groans of the dying. In the fading light I beheld two men. One was sitting on a donkey and resting his head on the mane. He was wrapped with crude bandages, and his excruciating pain was made apparent by his 'frequent moaning. The other man THE GOOD SAMARITAN was leading the beast and now was inquiring of the innkeeper for a place to stay. Everything about this man told me he was a hated Samaritan—his clothes, his looks, his speech, but not his manners. Samaritans always stand out in this land of the Jews. Overcome by curiosity, I went downstairs to discover the Samaritan's purpose and that of his hurt companion. I listened intently as he explained to the innkeeper, "Sir, I need a room where this man can stay and rest until he has regained his strength. I found him by the roadside. He had been robbed and also badly beaten by thieves. He needs good care and food. I will pay you well if you will attend to him while he recovers." I watched as the innkeeper agreed to the bargain, and the Samaritan paid him much more than enough to cover the charges. He then mounted his donkey and rode off into the night toward his native Samaria. I helped the innkeeper carry the wounded man to a room. In the morning I sent word to the centurion that I had decided to remain in the village for a few days and for him to go on without me. I stayed in the town until the unfortunate man had recovered from his afflictions. One day he told me that he was planning to leave the next morning, and then he related the story, which I had been eager to hear, of his misfortune. "Being out of work I had left Jerusalem when I heard of the fighting between the Jews and Samaritans in the _ borderland, 74) OCTOBER 1966 and planned to travel to Jericho where I might help in this war against the Samaritans. As I journeyed, five men fell upon me. They beat me and took my money, all I had left in this world. I lay almost lifeless upon the ground and cursed them, who had left me there to die. "T lay there for a long time, not having the power to rise, when I heard footsteps. I raised my eyes and saw a priest approaching, but when he saw that I had been attacked by robbers he passed by on the other side of the road. Later, another came, a Levite, and he also ignored my need for help and passed by. Then came the Samaritan you saw, who bound my wounds with rags he made of his own clothing and brought me here. Now that I am better I am going back to Jerusalem." "Back to Jerusalem? Then you are not going on to Jericho?" J asked. "No, for that Samaritan has taught me a lesson I cannot forget. I have heard some people in Jerusalem speak of a great leader who comes from Nazareth and performs many wonderful miracles and teaches of God's love for all men, Samaritans as well as Jews. I am going back to Jerusalem to find the whereabouts of the great One and become one of his disciples." He left the next morning, walking with the aid of a staff towards Jerusalem. Then I went out among the people of the village. I gave silver coins to the blind man who sat in the shade of the stone wall and begged. I gave to the small children who chased a white goat through the streets some black licorice, purchased from the vendors in Jerusalem. I thought to myself, that on my next visit to Jerusalem, I, too, would inquire of this great One—this Nazarene. UNTO THE HEART Linnie F. Robinson The autumn is a world of quiet peace; The freighted earth is rich with harvest days; The far extending fields of grain and fruit Proclaim the goodness of the summer's ways. No longer burn the hours of torrid heat— The air is mellowed in the purple land; Slowly perfection comes on vine and tree 742 For nature wields no lowly contraband. Unto the heart whose autumn days have dawned, Through honest effort and exact design, Yielding the harvest of integrity, There comes the fruit of knowledge ripe, benign, To venerate his days, most blessedly, Wherein his home is rife with charity. @ Beth Green removed the roast from the big oven and placed it upon the sinkboard. She looked out the kitchen window across the spacious green yard. Delighted, she caught the fragrance of the first blooming lilacs. The fragrance always alerted her to that little girl, summer-is-almosthere mood. She carried the roast to the round table in the middle of the kitchen and set it down. Her husband, Tom, had just come in from mowing the large back lawn and looked absolutely famished. Sara, her fourteen-year-old daughter, and Steve, her nineyear-old son, were at the table and on that subject again. Finally, Beth tired of listening, broke it up. "Children, just listen to yourselves. You are both getting a 'complex.' " "What's that?' asked Steve, afraid his mother might be changing the subject. "It is a bit hard to explain," began Beth, "but mainly it is a feeling that someone else has something better than you, or can do something better than you can. In your case, you are both getting 'complexes' about these new houses going up near us, while we still live here in our old-fashioned, two-story white house." "It's old, all right," snapped Sara. "Your grandfather built it long before the first World War. We don't even have a garage. We have to call that old barn, I mean carriage house, in the back, a garage. You said it yourself. 743 OCTOBER 1966 It was built to house your grandfather's horse and carriage. You call that a garage?" "Well it does a good job housing my station wagon and your father's sedan." "And a list of things too long for mentioning,' Dad added, coming to Beth's defense. The other things he had in mind were bikes, sleds, toboggans, Steve's derby car. "Maybe so," chimed in Steve, "but it is pretty out-dated." Even as a child, Beth had loved her grandparents' home here on the outskirts of town. She had played in the haymow, helped her grandfather hoe the garden, and during the hot summer days, she and her grandmother had picked fruit from the orchard. Soon after her grandparents were gone she and Tom were married. Rather than sell the property, they decided to move into it and make it into a big, comfortable home. True, they had soon made some up-to-date changes, but mostly they liked the house best with its early-day charm. While Tom served the plates, Beth looked through the kitchen window with a happy, contented expression. "You know," she said, "I sort of like the looks of the old barn back there next to the orchard. That big maple spreads its shade over the roof in the summer and shades most that part of the yard. My friend, who is an artist, called it 'picturesque.' " "Mother," Sara moaned, "you just don't understand." "Yes," answered Beth seriously, "I do understand. We were 744 happy and comfortable in this spacious old house with its big orchards and gardens. Now these subdivisions are going up with their well-designed homes, and suddenly you notice the difference. I admit there is a contrast, but that hardly gives us reason to pull up and move. Anyway, those new homes are expensive, and probably cramped for room." "Maybe so," admitted Sara, "but I've seen two girls and one boy my age moving into the finished houses on old Hill Road. They'll be our neighbors. They'll go to our school. Now Steve and I will be known as the boy and girl from that old house on the corner... With the barn!" So the complex grew through the spring into the first of June. Several of the homes were finished now and landscaped. More families were moving in, with new cars, too. Beth had to admit she began to feel the contrast. Each time she got such notions she went to the garden and picked string beans or went to the orchard and picked peaches from the trees. Feeling contented again, she thought about the new families with pint-size yards and only one broom closet to a house. Beth was at the front window hanging freshly washed curtains at the open window the day one of the new girls bicycled up the street close to the fence where Sara, in her flowered cotton dress, trimmed the withered roses from Beth's favorite rosebushes. The pretty brown-haired girl circled twice on her bike, hoping, Beth felt sure, that Sara would look up and speak. Sara, still smoldering in her complex, did not stop her snipping. Sara must have decided, Beth thought, that the girl looked lonesome because she took pity and spoke to her. In a second the new girl was off her bike and beside the fence. Soon they were chatting in that friendly fourteen-year-old tone. Before Beth had the curtains hung, Sara came toward the house, bringing the girl around to the back. As they walked by the windows she could hear their conversation. There are so many things, Beth thought, that she'll want to learn from Sara, about the school, the neighborhood. The girls were at the back of the house now, beside the back steps. "What an_ interesting house," the girl remarked, looking as if she were taking notes on the house and the old barn. "TI bet you've had some good slumber parties up in that hayloft. Have you?" "No," answered Sara, without enthusiasm. "I had only part of the empty loft cleared away for the playhouse. The neighborhood girls used it sometimes, but I've never had a party or slept up there." Sara wanted to change the subject, but the girl's eyes stayed on the barn, gathering ideas. "Your house is so big, I bet you have a room all to yourself." THE COMPLEX Her eyes had left the barn and now she covered the big, twostory house. "Yes, there are four bedrooms upstairs, and one guest room down," Sara informed her. "You're lucky. We have only three bedrooms in our house. My brother has a room, but my sister and I have to share a room. I better get going," the new girl said, turning. "It is time for my piano lesson. See you." "Why didn't you ask her in?" Beth asked Sara when she came inside for a cold drink. "I suppose I should have," Sara said, "she seemed anxious to get acquainted. Her name is Pat. But I don't want her going all over the new neighborhood advertising about our house, inside and out." Now here we go again, Beth thought to herself, as she went back to the curtains. Steve came in at lunchtime and announced that he had met one of the new boys. "Dick's a nice kid, Mom. He'd play, but he has to stay around home and help plant shrubs and water the new lawn. His place is going to be real pretty, though. Sure makes our place look awful countryish." "Oh," cried Beth as she struck her finger with the hammer she was using to drive a nail through the curtain rod. "I wish," she groaned to herself, "that I'd never seen a bulldozer go by this house on its way to clear those lots." In a matter of days word got around about the house and barn but not the way that Sara imagined. The girls had started to come around the house now in twos 745 OCTOBER 1966 and threes. There appeared to be five now, including Sara, who had formed a clique. "It has a real hayloft," she heard one of the girls explain as they brought each new girl around to look. Enthusiastically, the girls hurried inside the barn and climbed the old ladder with such suggestions as: "Oh, this is neat. Why don't we clean it up and bring our record player up here?" Or, "Maybe my mother will let me bring our old braided rug, and we'll have a lovely place to sit around." Soon the dust flew out of the back haymow door, being swept by five, inspired girls. Afterwards, things by the armfuls were carted up the steep ladder. "This is more fun than anything," exclaimed Bea, the small blonde girl, as she came into the kitchen with Sara to help carry cold punch to the barn. Beth had been so busy just keeping ice cubes in the refrigerator and snacks ready for the hungry girls that she had trouble remembering the girls' names. "If you'll help me," Beth heard Sara say a few days later, "T'll ask mother if we can clear away the south side of the barn that was used as the stable and make it into a stage." The girls nearly burst with joy over the idea. "We can have our own little theater," they shouted. Possibilities grew by the day. By the end of the week, the Stage progressed as the boys hammered away on a tree house. "Boy," Steve told Beth, as he rushed into the house for an entire half of an apple pie, "I feel sorry for those boys. They don't have much of anywhere to play. 746 You can't even play catch in their back yards." "There's room here,' Beth said. "If you overflow the tree house you always have the orchard." THE first time Beth visited Bea's mother she felt uneasy the minute she walked into the house. The inside was so freshly painted and beautifully carpeted that Beth felt afraid she'd touch something or walk on something she shouldn't. The children had to use the back door for fear they would track in mud from the lawns. Beth mentioned it to Sara that evening while they washed dishes. "No wonder," Sara said, "that the girls like to come here." "Girls your age prefer comfort to luxury," Beth said, careful not to use that I-told-you-so tone. The next few days the heat drove the girls inside to the cooler rooms of the big house. Pat, sitting cross-legged on the floor confessed, "I'm sure glad we moved here, Sara. I have always lived in an apartment. You don't know how much fun this is."' "Too bad," Bea said, "that it wasn't your house for sale instead of all those new lots where we bought." "I think your homes are beautiful," Sara answered. Beth wondered from the tone of her voice if she hadn't really got over her complex. The sound of Sara's voice still bothered Beth as she went to the kitchen to prepare cold ham and potato salad for supper. She walked through the hot sunshine and brought in tomatoes from her garden. She moved a lemon pie to the back shelf of the refrigerator so the children would not see it until after dinner. Beth had dinner arranged attractively on her yellow and white checkered cloth, with a large bowl of shasta daisies and marigolds in the center when Tom came in from sprinkling the lawn. "You know," he said, as the 'family seated themselves at the table, "you children are right. These new homes are making our house look shabby and _ outdated. I'm going to talk to Mr. Rogers, the real estate broker tomorrow. I'll have him come out and give us an estimate on our property. We could get a smaller house over in the tract area by the lake. Be near the lake and the new high school." Sara and Steve's protests went THE COMPLEX up like white flags. "No, Dad,' Steve insisted quickly. "We're over our complex. We like it here." Sara couldn't speak right away because tears had suddenly filled her eyes. She managed enough voice to say, "I wouldn't want to move, Daddy. Not ever. We'll stay here,' she suggested, "and Steve and I will save our allowances and buy some paint, maybe some more roses for around the front fence." "T could help paint," Steve offered, with all the confidence of a man. 'Come on, agree, or mother will start doctoring you for what is it she called it, a complex." Beth smiled back, and suddenly confident that the "complex" was a thing of the past, she started passing the food. MY HEART WOULD BREAK Maude O. Cook | stand beside an open door. Through it | freely pass To breathe the fragrant air of spring, To walk on velvet grass. Surrounding me on every side Are paths that mark the way To meadows, hills, or far-off lands Where | may choose to stray.... Lf this same door were locked and barred, Another held the key, And four bare walls made up my world— Were all that | could see— Remembering the orchard-blooms, The moonlight on the lake, The hillside rich with autumn-glow— | fear my heart would break. 747 The firelight is warm and golden As | sit here alone; But each room is empty, silent Until you come. Then when | hear your whistle, And your footstep at the door, This place becomes alive, Happy, and secure. For by your very presence At evening when you come, The empty quiet of each room Becomes the peace of home. 'Let Thy Food Be Prepared With Singleness of Heart' Helen Seymour Fifteen minutes before Sunday School and fifteen or twenty minutes after you return home, are about all the time it takes to prepare each of the following menus—less time, actually, than it would require to make sandwiches or prepare some other cold meal. And with these easy menus, you have a balanced diet to satisfy the appetites of a growing family — or a grown one — and delightful food which, added to the spiritual food of the day, makes Sunday a day to remember. Modern, heat-controlled ovens eliminate the necessity for mothers to choose between attending Sunday School and preparing an adequate dinner for their families. | not only attend, | teach a class, which means being there early enough for prayer meeting, but we always have a good Sunday dinner, and | am never, like Martha, '"'busied with much serving."' The menus, with cooking instructions, follow: baked ham browned potatoes cinnamon biscuits string beans with mushroom sauce gelatine fruit salad milk or postum cake Use either end of the ham, five to seven pounds, and simply put it in the roaster. Guests always exclaim about how delicious our ham is, and | don't do a single thing to enhance the flavor — no cloves, no brown sugar glaze, no pineapple. Eliminating such extras saves a good deal of time and work. Bake at 325°F. The potatoes may be left whole, if they are fairly small new ones, or cut in half if they are large. After peeling, roll them in bacon fat, or dab a little shortening on the top side. Place in the roaster around the ham. The gelatine salad is prepared on Saturday. | always make enough to do for Monday's dinner as well. | use unflavored gelatine, both because it is less expensive, and because by buying the 32-envelope package, | can always be sure of having it on hand without using a lot of storage room. GELATINE FRUIT SALAD 3 envelopes unflavored gelatine. 3 c. Boiling water %¥, c. Cold water 1 can frozen lemonade fruit juice drained from any fruit used, plus cold water to make 114 c. 1 c. Sugar (or about 24 1% grain saccharin tablets, for dieters) 1 package kool-aid, for color and additional flavor fruit Soften gelatine in 34 c. Cold water and add boiling water and stir until dissolved. Add all other ingredients, plus fruit of your choice. | vary the fruit with the season, and often put in everything in sight. Some possible combinations are: 1 #2 can crushed pineapple (drain thoroughly and use juice as part of liquid), with grapefruit segments, canned or fresh, and one avocado, sliced. Crushed pineapple, sliced bananas, oranges, and canned or fresh peaches. Fresh or canned apricots, watermelon and cantaloupe balls. Coarsely grated apples, celery, and raisins or grapes. When using bananas or avocados, push the pieces into the gelatine several times to make sure they are coated. This will prevent discoloration. 749 OCTOBER 1966 CINNAMON BISCUITS Place one package prepared biscuits-in greased pan. Put a dab of butter or margarine on top of each. Cover biscuits with brown sugar, and sprinkle cinnamon over this. Bake as directed on package. STRING BEANS WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE 1 can French sliced green beans 14 can mushroom soup Heat beans in saucepan. When liquid has boiled for a few seconds, drain it off and add undiluted mushroom soup. Allow this to begin bubbling, stir, and serve. If you have time on Saturday to sliver a few almonds, they make a delightful addition to this. You may use cream of vegetable or cream of celery soup, for a change, and fresh broccoli is also delicious treated in this manner. The cake may be a package cake, or your own recipe, and would, of course, be prepared on Saturday. MENU 2 baked chicken with rice frozen peas gelatine salad biscuits ice cream and cookies milk or postum BAKED CHICKEN WITH RICE 2 c. Uncooked rice 1 soup can water 1 c. Cream of mushroom soup 1 pkg. Dehydrated onion soup 1 c. Chicken gumbo soup two 21% lb. Or a 3 Ib. Frying chicken, cut up Mix rice (regular long-grain, not minute or precooked rice), the two cans of undiluted soup, and can of water in greased 13'' by 9" baking dish. Sprinkle with about 14 of the onion soup. Place chicken pieces on top, skin side down. Don't remove the skin, or the rice will be too dry, but if you push it back on the side that is turned up, the chicken will absorb more of the flavor of the soup. Sprinkle the rest of the onion soup on the chicken making sure that each piece is covered with the soup. Reserve the backs and necks for making soup on Monday. Cover the entire dish with aluminum foil, folded around the edges to prevent steam from escaping. Bake in 325 degree oven for two hours. The salad in this menu is the same as in the first. The other items are purchased already prepared, or cooked according to directions on the package. MENU 3 beef pot roast brown gravy mashed potatoes tomato aspic three-bean salad biscuits milk or postum frozen strawberry torte The tomato aspic, three-bean salad, and dessert will all be prepared on Saturday. TOMATO ASPIC 2 envelopes unflavored gelatine 1 tbsp. Vinegar 1% c. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Sugar l% c. Cold water 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 can tomato juice (optional) 1 can tomato soup 1 can salad vegetables 1 small clove garlic 2 stalks celery 14 tsp. Chili powder 3 green onions 14 cucumber radishes, avocado, sliced bell pepper, if desired 750 "LET THY FOOD BE PREPARED..." Soften gelatine in 1% c. Cold water, dissolve with boiling water. Add tomato juice. Put tomato soup in separate bowl, gradually stir in gelatine mixture. Add finely chopped garlic, chili powder, vinegar, sugar, and Worcestershire sauce. Drain and add canned salad vegetables. Add chopped celery, onions (including tops), cucumber, and any other vegetables desired. Pour into molds or loaf pan and put in refrigerator to set. (| don't use molds because it is faster and less work, on Sunday, to scoop the salad out of a loaf pan with a spatula.) Serve on lettuce leaves, with or without mayonnaise. Serves eight. To use this salad for a luncheon main dish, add shrimps, crab, or tuna. THREE-BEAN SALAD 1 can red kidney beans 6 tbsp. Salad oil 1 can cut green beans 1 large red onion, minced 1 can garbanzo beans 1 tsp. Sugar 1 clove garlic, minced 14 tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Vinegar 14 tsp. Pepper Drain liquid from all the beans, reserving that from the garbanzos. Mix beans in a salad bowl, add all the other ingredients, with enough of the liquid from the garbanzo beans to barely cover. Cover bowl and marinate in the refrigerator overnight. FROZEN STRAWBERRY TORTE 1 basket strawberries 14 c. Milk baked loaf cake (white, sponge, French 1 pkg. Whipping cream substitute vanilla, or angel food) 5 oz. Marshmallows (about half a 1% c. Sugar package) Hull and mash strawberries, cover with sugar, and return to refrigerator. Line the pan the cake was baked in with waxed paper, allowing several inches to extend on both sides. When cake is thoroughly cooled, cut in three lengthwise slices and replace bottom layer in baking pan. In a double boiler melt the marshmallows with the milk. Stir in the strawberries and put in the refrigerator until cool and partially thickened. Whip the cream and fold into marshmallow strawberry mixture. Spread one third on first cake layer, add second layer, and spread with more of the strawberry mixture. Place last layer of cake on top and spread with remaining strawberry mixture. Place in freezing part of refrigerator overnight. POT ROAST One 4 or 5 pound chuck or rolled rib beef roast 1 pkg. Dehydrated onion soup With roast in roaster or baking pan, sprinkle about a third of the onion soup on top. Be sure to get some of the powdered seasonings, as well as the onions.: Cover with roaster top or aluminum foil. Bake at 325° for a total of about 214 or 3 hours. Right after Sunday School, turn the roast and sprinkle another-third of the soup over it. Cover again and return to the oven while the rest of the meal is being prepared. You may prefer this seasoning to the onion soup: 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce (poke the meat with a fork to make sauce run in, rather than off.) garlic salt—enough to cover meat 2 tsp. Oregano 1 bay leaf Meat may be uncovered for last few minutes of cooking, if it doesn't seem brown enough. Add a little water to the gravy in the pan and use unthickened. (This saves one more last minute task.) 751 OCTOBER 1966 MASHED POTATOES Use dehydrated potatoes, and prepare according to instructions on package. There is not more than a minute's work involved, and in some areas the prepared potatoes are less expensive than fresh ones. They require very little storage space, and there is not. Danger of spoilage. Serve with butter or the gravy from the meat. The biscuits are again the package biscuits, used as they come from the package. LET'S MAKE STRAWBERRY JAM! Ida A. Isaacson 1 qt. Strawberries, hulled, washed, and drained Pour scalding water over strawberries, let stand 3 minutes. Drain. Add 1 cup sugar to berries, bring to a boil, and boil ten minutes by the clock. Add 2 cups more sugar. Cook 20 minutes (by clock). Stir constantly to avoid scorching. Remove from the stove and pour into an earthen dish, or crock (no metal bowl). Let stand for 24 hours. Stir every time you pass the bowl. After the jam has set for 24 hours, put it in clean, sterile bottles, which have been prepared beforehand, and placed on a thick towel so that they will be completely dry. Then seal with wax or self-sealing lids which have been dipped in boiling water. HOW TO SEW NYLON TRICOT Ethel Maturale Since nylon tricot has come on the market, | have had hundreds of calls from women asking to know how they can adjust their machines to mend and sew this fabric without skipping stitches. Many machines for commercial manufacturing, also, are difficult to adjust. | use spray starch generously down the seams | want to sew, then let the material dry, and the zigzag stitch works perfectly. The plain sewing, also, was successfully stitched. 752 Crepe Paper Costumes ssisey ruin The planning of costumes for home, Church, and school entertainment events can be difficult sometimes. For easy, inexpensive costumes, why not use colorful crepe paper? A basic costume has been especially worked out so that both child and mother, or teacher, can have the most fun with the least work. Two rolls of crepe paper and the trimmings can make an elaborate costume with no end to its variations. Remember, too, that nowadays, crepe paper is absolutely flame-proof. A dancing snowflake is made of white crepe and trimmed with lace paper doilies. Change the crepe to light blue, stud it with stars, and a beautiful angel or fairy princess appears. Then, in a twinkling, and a few snips of the scissors, she becomes a spry little elf. SEWING METHODS through the entire fold 1314 inches wide (or desired length of skirt), then machine or by hand. It will not ravel, Unfold (figure 1). Cut strips of wrapso hemming or facing is not necessary. Ping paper 1 inch wide and stitch The following directions will make a Underneath along one long edge of the costume to fit a five or six year old: skirt to give added stiffness. Gather the opposite edge and sew to waistSKIRT: Cut a piece of crepe paper line of a cotton slip (figure 2). Crepe paper may be sewed on the sal2 folded crepe paper for length of skirt gathered skirt 753 OCTOBER 1966 BODICE: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide with the grain, and 24 inches long, or long enough to go around the child's waist. Fold in half lengthwise, then turn ends in and stitch. Sew the bodice to the top of a cotton slip over the gathered skirt top (figure 3). COLLAR: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide and 60 inches long, gather lengthwise 3 inches from one long edge, until the collar fits child's neck, then fold over along the gathers. Sew ribbons to each end to tie (figure 4). Trim with tinsel or fluting as desired. 60" deeper ruffle top of slip collar figure 4 gather here 3'' deep 10" 7" for large ruffle of collar collar HAT: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide, with the grain, and 22 inches long (figure 5). Fold one long edge under 114 inches, cut opposite edge into eight scallops 314 inches deep, for a scalloped flower froufrou trim for the top of the hat. Cut a strip of crepe 8 inches wide with the grain, by 12 inches long. Cut one edge into fringe (eight separate fringe sections, each 114 inches wide and 6 inches deep). Curl ends of fringe over scissor blade. Gather bottom edge, tie tightly, and place in center of gathered scallops. Tie fringes and scallops tightly together (in back) to form completed hat. KK 12" figure 4 cut 8 scallops for top decoration 314" deep gather here crown of hat i | 144" al 2"' deep hat figure 5 754 crown of hat 8 fringes each one 114" wide W 6" deep for Al curled fringes gather here - But my grown children till shook their heads and clucked, "You're Not as ope earth, so to speak, 8ardening jg work — byt the work depends a lot on how you do it. J do it the easy way, whenever Possible, knowing that some Planning ahead, a certain amount of Organization, and a There js no Pressure on me the way I garden. The Tewards — enjoyment I ime moves on. Some day a Physical Condition may curtail this type of activity for me. Unti] then, I Shall be enjoying to the fullest my little Patch of dirt. 755 Joyce R. Gillming @From where I stand at the bottom of the hill, the hot, dusty road rises slowly up the hillside. The red clay bank, higher at first than I am, gradually lowers to meet the road. To my right, the paved county road starts to soften in the heat, while on my left, the tree-studded ground slants up and away. As I begin to climb, I can catch only an occasional flash off the white eaves of the house that sits about halfway up the hill. First comes a small section of pasture grass, green and lush. Blue lupine and small yellow daisies are blooming now. Delicate pink flowers, almost unseen at first, dot the grass like tiny French knots sewed at random through a background of green cross-stitch. Earlier in the spring, this meadow was covered with slender buttercups and bluebells of Scotland. The grass and flowers end where clumps of live oak trees, alternating with an occasional black oak or pine, cover the hillside with deep shade. Nothing grows beneath the trees but insistent yearly shoots from old stumps and insidious poison oak. Mottled areas of shade are thrown across the road by the trees as I continue up the hill. In spite of these welcome patches, the hot sun burns my back before I reach the turn into our drive. Here, a large group of live oaks provides a pocket of shade and a resting place. The quiet hum from the highway on the hill in back of me is punctuated with bright, sharp calls from the birds down in Bailey's pasture. I rest awhile and watch the grazing cows slowly wander among the ruins of the pear orchard. Even the two new calves move quietly in the heat. The narrow stream bisecting the pasture is too far away to give any illusion of coolness. A slight breeze, composed of equal odors of hot pine needles, cows, and fragrant grass floats along the call of "Mom, oh, Mom." With a deep breath I rise and turn into our drive for the last stretch of my climb. A high bank is now on my right. It is in two levels. The lower level is overgrown with underbrush, tall weeds, and a few trees. The second level is faced with a retaining wall of old crossarms from utility poles. In pockets of dirt, pink ice plants bloom with a brilliant glow against the weathered wood. On top, a half circle of lawn frames the bright yellow and white house. And now I look back down the way I have come. My eyes follow the path the children have made through our woods. I raise my eyes and see the ridge of the hills. The spire shapes of the pines climb the hill in tiers and form a living wall of green to shelter our road, our woods, and our home. THE BLESSING Catherine B. Bowles | know not if the blessing sought Will come in just the way | thought, But | leave my prayer with him alone Whose will is wiser than my own, Assured that he will grant the quest And send an answer far more blest. 756 Amy G. Bond @ While I trimmed my climbing rose and cleaned out the accumulation of dry leaves beneath it, I was reminded how like our lives it was. As I worked, I kept getting caught in the grasp of the seemingly harmless green tendrils. They seemed to reach out and get one thorn caught, making it possible for another to catch on to my clothing. Sometimes, the long ones would mysteriously wind around me, holding me fast. Only by determination and much struggle was I able to loosen their biting grasp. As soon as I loosened one, another seemed to reach out and grasp me. Before I was through, I was scratched and bleeding. The exposed parts of my body had been covered, I thought, well enough. It helped some, but even then some of the thorns would penetrate. I hate to think how scratched I would have been without the protection I had provided. So it is with our lives. There are beautiful and seemingly innocent-looking tendrils waiting to grasp us at every turn, and only by providing a shield, such as keeping the commandments of God to help protect and guard us from the thorns of life, can we hope to escape the forces waiting to tempt us. Sometimes, we are caught in a situation not of our making, but most of the time, if we are ever on guard, we can avoid many of the reaching tendrils awaiting us at every turn along the highway of life. Like the rosebush, many beautiful and enticing temptations hold danger, things are made to look so enticing that we feel that they can't be wrong. Thus our attitudes are changed before we realize it. Bad habits and evil-doing of any kind can ensnare us. We start by saying to ourselves, 'Others are doing this and they seem to be enjoying themselves. They even seem to be getting along financially better than I am, and I am trying to do the things I should." Before long we have rationalized until we convince ourselves a habit isn't as bad or as wrong as we had been taught it was. By the time we have discovered we are wrong in our thinking, sometimes, it is almost too late or impossible to quit doing the things we have taken up. Again, we are caught with the green, harmless-looking tendrils. If we are strong in our beliefs and have the will power and determination, we can break loose, but not without feeling the prick of the thorns. From the rose bush I turned to some shrubs with dead wood and dry leaves in them. We also let dead wood and dry leaves hinder us just as they hinder and obliterate the growth and beauty of a shrub or flower bed. We must profit by our mistakes—and the dead wood in our lives—but not let them accumulate in our hearts and minds to the extent we are oblivious to all else that is good and fine in our lives. We must keep the weeds and dry leaves of disappointment, discontent with our lot, selfishness, greed, dishonesty and fault-finding from establishing a place in our hearts and minds to breed and grow to maturity. Only by doing these things can we find the true happiness for which we are all seeking. 757 et =) fd. D Fs ' - Ls t Pe r Helen Hinckley Jones @ Sean, my tiny grandson, must have been born to be a steeplejack. He is currently engaged in teaching his three-year-old brother how to ascend to heights already long accessible to him. Perhaps Sean climbed before he walked because he learned to creep in the bath tub with a few inches of water to assist him. He pulled himself forward with his elbows and forearms, at the same time drawing his knees up under him, then straightening them out in a manner that thrust him ahead—really a cross between worming, swimming, and creeping. This means of locomotion, quickly perfected, proved valuable not only on floors, flat beds, and_ other horizontal stretches, but on inclined and even perpendicular planes. If he is curious it is easy to climb to the top of a dresser, table, or piano to investigate; if he wants 758 to bounce he can go up over the footboard of any adult bed; if he is tired he can get himself into his crib. It is difficult, but possible, to drag his brother's big hobby horse to the side of his crib, crawl up to the saddle, stand on it, step to the horse's head, pull himself up over the crib railing, and fall down on the mattress. Drawing up the blanket and settling to sleep is easy after the precarious ascent of the Matterhorn. Of course, he is always covered with bruises because his descent is not as studied as his ascent; frequently it is not studied at all, not even contemplated. I sat with him the other day on the front seat of my automobile. The back of the seat is higher than Sean's head, but by raising his arms he could clasp his hands over the top of it, and wherever he has a handhold, he can climb. He held on to the top of the seat with his hands and pushed his body up by drawing up his knees and thrusting forward until he could get his arms over the seat back. When he was within one thrust of his destination, I clasped my fingers around his ankle to keep him from climbing higher. At once he knew what had impeded his progress. Without a cry or any show of anger, he slipped down into the seat, carefully unfolded my hand, one finger at a time, until he was free, then started all over again with the climb. He knew where he wanted to go, he knew how to get there, and he was patient with removing any obstacle in his way. He was willing to try over and over again. By every law governing success he should have gone up and over, not once but again and again. But there was one thing he didn't THE CLIMBER know. If he went over the top of that seat, he would plunge a distance almost twice his length headfirst onto the floor of the car. Since he did not know what was beyond his immediate goal, he must have thought me unreasonably opposed to his having what he wanted. I, too, have tried to climb. I have used all of the capabilities I have developed in a lifetime of trying. I know what my goal is and how to reach it. I am willing to try over and over again, and I am even patient in trying to remove the obstacles that impede my progress. But still I do not often reach the goal I'm striving toward. Does the hand that impedes my progress belong to one who knows more than I about what is beyond the immediate goal I long for with my finite mind? FROM A MOTHER'S HEART Kathryn Kay | did not think these Hands of mine, so simply styled, Unused to miracles and very plain, Could ever be a source of balsam to my child And by their gentle touch help ease the pain. | know in life it must be each must have his share Of pain and grief, so in my mother-heart | pray, Let my child have the strength to bear what he must bear When hurts are deeper than my hands can brush away. A LULLABY Christie Lund Coles What, you ask, is a lullaby? Listen, and | will endeavor to tell; It is a gentle, yet powerful song, And only mothers truly know it well. It is soft darkness rising to the sky, Lighting a star or two along the way; It is a poem whispered by the wind, Which only lips of love can learn to say. It is a touch, a look, perhaps, Shuttering the room when the night is wild; It is a hushed, sweet sort of singing that Is only comprehended by a child. 759 Our Children Earn Ther Own @ A neighbor was visiting me one afternoon when Tim, our sixyear-old, came rushing home from school, jerked off his jacket and tossed it over a chair. Noticing his actions, I slowly walked over to the kitchen cabinet, picked up a small glass jar and proceeded to remove the lid. "Please, Mother! Don't take out a button," pleaded Tim, and, quickly grabbing his jacket, added, "I'll hang it up right away!—I'm sorry." With wrinkled brow, his big 760 brown eyes scanned my movements as I hesitated, for I had momentarily forgotten whether it was Tim or Johnnie whom I had warned for the last time. As if sensing my doubtful thoughts, Tim reminded me, "It was Johnnie, Mamma, that threw his jacket down yesterday." "So it was," I said, and as I screwed the lid back onto the jar I reminded Tim that this was his last warning. He scampered off to his room. The kitchen door swung open a second time, and in bounded eight-year-old Johnnie with a beaming smile. "Hi, Mom," he sang, and seeing Mrs. Austin, he asked, "Are Terry and Judy here?" "They are playing in the den," she informed him. He had taken his jacket off and was about to sling it when he looked at me guiltily and said, "Oh! — Oh! I almost forgot, Mom," then dashing toward his room, lilted, "but I'm sure glad —TI didn't." Mrs. Austin raised her eyebrows and cocked her head. She came over to inspect the glass jars lined up on the kitchen cabinet. There were two small jars —one labeled 'Tim," the other "Johnnie"—and one larger jar labeled "Mr. Allowance," and in small print below his name it read, "I help you earn your allowance." Each small jar had a slot in the lid, and each jar contained several white buttons. Mr. Allowance's jar held many more buttons—all white, except for a few black ones. Just then Tim reentered the room and asked, "'Mom,, is it O. K. If, after we get our clothes changed, we play with Terry and Judy until they go home, and then do our chores later?" Since there was no reason why the chores couldn't wait, I agreed to make an exception and let the boys play before they did their daily tasks.. Being extremely interested in what had taken place, Mrs. Austin asked, 'Would you mind explaining your system of your children earning their allowances? It seems very effective." And so I related the following story to her: OUR CHILDREN EARN THEIR ALLOWANCES Feeling as we did (that all through life one has to work to receive compensation) Joe and I decided we would teach our children that money. Was not handed out gratis. Tim was three and Johnnie five when we started using the button-jars as a means for them to eam their allowances. Beginning each week, we placed ten white buttons into each jar. Each child was assigned chores, such as, picking up and putting away his toys; hanging his clothes on hooks (which were — installed within his reach); | emptying waste paper baskets, and other small duties. When either child did not do his job satisfactorily, he was given fair warning, so he knew that when it happened a second time, a button would be extracted from his jar. If a chore was neglected entirely, more buttons were taken out. Whenever a child was naughty, or disobeyed, he would lose a button, or buttons, depending upon the nature of the act. All buttons taken from the children's jars were placed back into Mr. Allowance's jar which, in the beginning, contained only white buttons. THE children were disappointed when they lost buttons, for at the end of the week, the buttons were counted and exchanged for pennies. We gave the children an opportunity to add to their allowances. For any unassigned tasks that a child did (providing it was something that needed to be done), or for several acts of kindness, extra buttons were added to his jar from Mr. Allowance's jar. It takes a bit of doing to teach small children to be helpful and 761 OCTOBER 1966 courteous, but after a couple of weeks of very few buttons left in their jars, the children learned to cooperate and they began forming better habits. As they grew older, we started each week with more buttons and 4lso assigned other tasks. "Well, now you've heard the story of how our children earn their allowances," I told Mrs. Austin, "and you've witnessed how effective it is." "Very interesting," said Mrs. Austin, "but you've neglected to explain the black buttons in Mr. Allowance's jar." "Oh! Yes! I must not forget that, for they play an important part, although we've only had to use one black button. One day Johnnie was seen adding an extra white button (unearned) to his jar. After fully explaining to him the unfairness of cheating, I took ten white buttons from his jar and inserted a black button. It was left in his jar until he had earned back the ten white ones he had lost. So we always keep a few black buttons in Mr. Allowance's jar, just as a reminder that it pays to be honest." Mrs. Austin smiled and said, "I like the idea—I think I'll try it." I assured her that we found our system of having our children earn their allowances a pleasant experience. We appreciate the fact that they don't ask for money. On the other hand, the children seem proud to earn their allowances. They are learning the value of money; they know it doesn't come easy, and they are learning that it takes a great deal of effort and cooperation to reap rewards. The golden grain is cut and freshly stored. The undulating waves are stubble now, THE GOLDEN GRAIN And all the rolling hillside's ripened hoard Is garnered for our food. We know, somehow, Gladys Hesser Burnham That waving sea of nodding heads of grain That rippled through the summer sun and heat Paints pictures, brightly fresh, then again It fortifies us with our bread to eat. 762 opeak fu People Patricia Middleton Faas My husband and I recently returned for a visit in Salt Lake City and were with some friends at one of the newer, mammoth shopping centers. I sat down on a convenient bench in the lobby to wait for the other shoppers in our group, when a small aged lady approached, walking with members of her family. She turned aside to greet me in such a cheerful manner, and as an afterthought, came closer and laid a frail hand on my shoulder. "I'm eighty-nine,' she began to explain, "and the greatest enjoyment I get from life is speaking to people." "Well, you're very sweet," I answered, "and I'm so glad you did stop and speak to me." "T'm glad I did, too." She smiled. I watched after her to see her being speeded along by an energetic and quite persistent little fellow whom I took to be a grandson. And I thought, how full and rewarding this good woman's life must be, as she approaches her ninetieth year, still delighting in being friendly. JEWELED TRAP Eva Willes Wangsgaard | will not share this shady spot With anything else that moves, | thought. But wait.... A daintily patterned wing Of a vanished moth begins to swing An arc on invisible filament, Like a jeweled fan from the Orient. Invisible? No, this airy foil Is opalescent as floating oil, And its clever spinner is out of sight Awaiting new innocence in flight. Athena is lost, with her jealousies; Arachne spins on through the centuries. A 763 Momensasne Ivy Houtz Woolley QUICK LUNCHEON hard-boiled eggs buttered toast 7 1 can tomato soup Dilute tomato soup with 14 can hot water, then put on stove and bring to boiling point. Make a thickening of flour and water, add salt and pepper. Add thickening slowly to tomato mixture. Put two pieces of buttered toast on each plate, cut egg lengthwise and place yolk down on toast. Cover toast and egg with delicious tomato sauce and put a sprig of mint or parsley in each egg mound and serve. For dessert—a small fruit dish with 2 figs, 2 prunes, 2 dates, a few raisins, and a maraschino cherry on a colored toothpick. Add a few bits of parsley. Centerpiece—a low glass bow! With a bunch of parsley (and a flower or two if desired) on a small mirror completes the repast. It's unusual and delicious. HANGER FOR JAR RINGS Get a wire about two yards long. Make. A hook like a safety pin clasp on one end, then bend the other end of the wire up, fasten it in the clasp, like a large safety pin, hang it on the wall in the pantry, utility room, or porch. When you remove the rings from fruit jars, slip them on this big pin, then fasten it again until you have another ring. At the canning season take the big pin full of rings, dip them into boiling water, lay on table or stove where you are canning then reach for a ring. The rings are always there, sterilized and ready for use. SERENITY Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn Older, Older than we The peaceful noontime oaks Deep-rooted stand in pools of shade, Content. 764 HESTELLA KUTTLER CREATES BEAUTY WITH CROCHET HOOK AND KNITTING NEEDLES Hestella Abrams Kuttler, Pocatello, Idaho, has found the satisfying enrichment of life that handicraft gives to a woman who loves beautiful articles for decorating the home, for presenting as gifts, and for supplying ''best sellers' for Relief Society bazaars. Many of Sister Kuttler's crochet and knitting designs are made in patterns of her own creation, and all of them are '"'stitched with fine exactitude." Her afghans, doilies, tablecloths, and bedspreads are exquisite, and she has made hundreds of novelty articles, including crocheted baskets, flower holders, pillow tops, wall hangings, and artificial flowers. She has also knitted and crocheted jackets and sweaters and made decorative stitchings as trimmings. Recently, in one year, she pieced three quilts and did all the quilting on four quilts. Sister Kuttler has served twelve years as a ward Relief Society president, twelve years as a class leader, and has served many years as a teacher in Sunday School and YWMIA, as well as being a devoted researcher in genealogy. After the death of her husband, she served in the Southwest Indian Mission. Six of her eight children are living, and she has thirty-seven grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. At eighty-one years of age, she attends temple sessions regularly and takes care of her own home. 765 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram from her Aunt Isabelle, asking her to fly home at once. Her friend Betz Condon accompanies her, and the girls meet Carolyn Bridges, matron at a hospital in Perth. During a stopover in Fiji, Dan Fargo, a friend of Grandfather Ridgehaven, boards the plane, and Julie learns that her fiancé Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. When they arrive in Sydney, they find that Grandfather has made plans for an expedition into the bush to help in the search for Ron. @ Aunt Isabelle talked in such a low voice Julie had to bend her head to hear her. "T could not bear to tell Dr. George," she said. "I wanted his love, not his pity. So I went away for my first operation. No one knew, not even my parents. Only Dr. Spencer has known all these years." Julie caught her breath. Dr. Spencer was the best cancer Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 4 specialist in all Australia. People came for hundreds of miles for his opinions. "T have had three operations," Aunt Isabelle continued. "Each time Dr. George and my family thought I went with a group of teachers to the Art Festival in Adelaide. Once, before Dr. George went away, I went to the hospital in Perth. That is where I met your friend, Carolyn Bridges. When I saw her at the aerodrome today I wondered if she had told my secret." "No, she did not!" Julie protested. "She never once mentioned your name. But she did say she had heard of Grandfather." "T should have known she was true to her profession,' Aunt Isabelle said. '""The reason I look —so—awful, right now, is_ be- cause I finally let them give me cobalt. It made me very ill. But they told me that it helps. We are always hoping for a miracle." "So am I! Aunt Isabelle. I believe in miracles. But, Aunt Isabelle," Julie scolded her gently, "why didn't you tell us? Why didn't you let us help you? Why did you bear this all alone for all these years?" Julie's voice stumbled, and she hid her face in her hands. "Why? Why?" she repeated, brokenly. "Julie — listen, dear.'"' Aunt Isabelle touched her bowed head. "Because I loved you all so much." "But Dr. George?" Julie asked. "You let him go away." "Yes, because I loved him. George and I were meant to be together. I met him when he was a young intern at the hospital here in Sydney. He would come over here, after he had been on duty all day. He would be tired with thinking of diseases and the pressures of too much work. So I didn't talk about the hospital to him. Instead, we listened to music and danced or strolled in the park, laughing and having fun. He told me that coming to see me was like finding a spring of water in the bush. He said how wonderful it was to have a sweetheart who could always laugh and sing and never complain. 'Being with you, Isabelle,' he told me, 'helps me forget all the misery I see all day long. Don't ever change, darling. It would be like having the sun tum black and the moon fall out of the sky.' " Aunt Isabelle nibbled her lower lip, nervously. "T wanted him to think of me that way, Julie. I wanted to be the sunshine in his TELL ME OF LOVE life; the moon and the stars, too." Her eyes were soft brown velvet in her pale face and her whitish hair was a halo. There was something fresh and young about her in spite of her illness. It is because she loves so deeply, Julie thought. She has so much love to give that it glows in her sweet, sensitive face. "T let him go away without me," she went on. "I could not bear to tell him. I kept hoping I would be well again." WULIE's throat was dry and aching. How could she tell Aunt Isabelle, who was twice her age, and had been a mother to her for eleven years, that she was wrong about love and life; that she should have confided in Dr. George and her family in the very beginning of her illness. How could any woman as intelligent as Aunt Isabelle, and with her wonderful parents, be so utterly unrealistic? Hadn't she even listened to Grannie? 'Aunt Isabelle," she said, praying to say the right words, "I know you came here to Grannie's room for comfort just as I did. I can remember so many things she taught me about love and marriage; how it meant facing the world together, sharing the bitter and the sweet. Dr. George is a doctor, Aunt Isabelle. He would have helped you and taken care of you. Instead, you let him think that you didn't need him—that you wouldn't live in the outback with him. You let us all think that." Aunt Isabelle's eyes glistened with tears held back too long. They spilled over on her cheeks and her face crumpled. "Julie, Julie!" she sobbed at 767 OCTOBER 1966 last. "I know I have been wrong— so terribly wrong. Help me to go to George—to be near him for a little while." Julie held her tenderly in her strong young arms. "I will help you, Aunt Isabelle. All of us will help you, now that you will let us. We need you to help us, too. We need you, Aunt Isabelle." Julie stood up holding her dressing gown tightly around her. She was shivering with cold. "Try to sleep," she said, gently. "T will, too. Big Dan expects us to be at the aerodrome by five A. M. Grandfather has chartered a private plane to take us to the ranch." THE minute the airplane took off, Big Dan took charge of everyone. Julie felt a sort of comfort in his jolly company. His eyes beamed confidence and hope. "A project like this," he said, looking around at each of them, "is half won if we have prayerful faith in its accomplishment. John, did you bring the maps?" he asked. "Sometimes we learn a lot when we compare the country below us to the newest map. You know this country, John, about as well asI do. You come out here every month or so." "T don't know it the way you do, Big Dan," John said with a modest grin. "I supervise all the Ridgehaven properties—that is, I know approximately how many sheep we have and how much money we make. I know the Australian government owns the railways, because it's my business to use the railways. But you ask me how many rivers there are in Australia and which is the longest and I'm a mutton-head." Wally, who was sitting beside 768 Aunt Isabelle called out: '"That's fourth grade geography, Uncle John." Then he quoted in a high, piping little boy's voice: "The Darling river is in eastern Australia and flows to the southwest and joins the Murray. It is the longest river in Australia." "Go to the head of the class,"' Aunt Isabelle smiled at him. "I thought you were a_ dunce, Wally." Big Dan, listening to their light banter, smiled indulgently. "Water is a very serious problem here in Central and Western Australia. We have many short rivers in the western part but nearly all of our rivers, except the Darling-Murray river system in eastern Australia depend almost entirely on rainfall. We have no great snowfalls nor springs to feed rivers as they have in other countries." Wally rolled his eyes and spread his hands. "No rain, no water," he chanted. "Say, that would make a good ballad, Julie, no rainee, no drinkee, I'm dried out and weakie." Betz clapped her hands, keeping time to Wally's chanting voice. Aunt Isabelle shook her head at Wally. "Now stop that, please," she scolded. "I'm interested in what Big Dan has to say about water conditions out here. Water is the lifeblood of any country." "Yes, Ma'am," Wally said, meekly, winking at Betz, who winked back at him. They speak the same nonsense, Julie thought, even though Wally is Australian and Betz is American. Little sparks of understanding pass between them like signals. She noticed, too, that Aunt Isabelle was more interested in everything today. Her eyes had lost their haunted look, and her lips were curved and ready to smile the way they used to. She has found new hope and courage and something to live for, Julie thought, gratefully. She will see Dr. George soon. Grandfather has asked him to meet the plane. "Tell us more, Big Dan," Aunt Isabelle said. "Especially about the search for underground water channels." "Some have been found in Central Australia," Big Dan went on. "The deepest bore is at Whitewood. It's five thousand feet deep." "What about these water experiments they are doing up on the northwest coast?" Uncle John asked. "They are trying to get the sea water underground someway and perhaps get it down to irrigate some of the bush." Bic Dan pursed his lips and shook his head. "Not too successful, so far," he said. "There is danger of turning the soil to salt. But, of course, they keep trying. Our engineers are trying constantly to find water. That's what our boy Ron was doing — hunting for likely underground channels. Only he was up north of Perth." There was a long, quiet moment. Julie bent her head, saying a little prayer. She knew they were all thinking of Ron, even though they tried to be jolly in the Ridgehaven fashion, in spite of their serious mission. So she lifted her head and made an effort to join the conversation. "What I'd like to know," she said to Big Dan, "is why the eastTELL ME OF LOVE ern coast of Australia has green foliage and luxuriant plants and exotic flowers; luscious fruit and vegetables all year around. That's the way it is, Betz—a lopsided continent." Wally stood up, bowing to Aunt Isabelle. "With your permission, may I tell my scrappy little Irish cousin that Australia is an island, the largest island in the world, completely surrounded by water." Aunt Isabelle said, "Wally, you should respect what your cousin said." But her eyes were loving him. Everyone loved Wally. He is a rascal, Julie thought, but irresistible, anyway. Betz was drinking in every word he said, watching every clownish act. Julie wondered about Betz. "T want our American guest to know the truth about our country," he went on. "Please, Aunt Isabelle, let me tell Betz what I learned in the fourth grade, then I won't say anything else and will let Cousin Julie have her say again." "You mean you made it to the fourth grade?" Betz questioned impishly. "With honors," he _ grinned. "Now, to get back to the point, Australia is bound on the north by the Timor Sea and the Torres Strait, on the east by the Pacific Ocean; on the south by the Bass Strait and the Great Australian Bight, and on the west by the Indian Ocean. So I say it's an island. Any questions?" "Yes," Uncle Jeff laughed. "Why don't you sit down and keep still." "It's a continent," Julie insisted, with her pixie-like smile. "You are both right,' Big Dan 769 OCTOBER 1966 said. "It is the biggest island and the smallest continent in the world!" Aunt Cleo, who had been resting against Uncle John's shoulder, sat upright. "I don't think it's lopsided, Julie,'"' she said, smiling. "The bush has its share of beauty." Julie thought how well Aunt Tricia had taught Cleo. She could speak correctly, and with charm when she really tried. "There is so much to see and love out there," Aunt Cleo went on. "The way the sun rises out of the bush, the sparkling spinifex like stars in the grass, the gray-white mobs of sheep that mean wool and food for millions of people, the bouncing kangaroos, with their pump-handle tails, and the tall, dancing birds. So many things...." Her voice trailed off, and her wide blue eyes challenged them. "Tell me, have any of you ever seen anything more beautiful than a rainbow in the bush? What I call wonderful is running through the rainbow with the slosh of water on my feet and seeing the billabongs full of water, and knowing that the sheep and cattle will have plenty to drink. There's more to the 770 bush than most folks see at first glance." "Cleo is right," Big Dan said, nodding his head. "You have to live in a place to love it." That seemed to end the argument. Big Dan and Geoffrey bent over an improvised table, studying the map again. Aunt Cleo went to sleep against Uncle John's shoulder. Even Wally sat down beside Betz and looked out of the window. Julie heard Betz say: "It looks like the middle of nowhereville to me." "Righto," he answered in a whisper that Aunt Isabelle heard. "But wait until you see grandfather's station on the west end. That is the bloomin' tail-end of nowhereville."' "Wally!" Aunt Isabelle corrected him. "That's not cricket. Why don't you tell Betz that the Ridgehaven properties produce thousands of bags of wool. And a great deal of wheat, and that we have banana plantations and tomatoes we send abroad." "I know that, Aunt Isabelle, you're quite right. Quite right." He gave her an engaging grin. "I gave her the let-down first. Now I'll give her the build-up. Even if it does sound like bragging." Julie looked at Aunt Isabelle, who was smiling tolerantly. They could both hear Wally telling Betz all of the good things he remembered about the properties and the surrounding country; the oyster beds on the beach a few miles away, and the rich crayfish. "Aunt Cleo is right about the rainbow," he added. Betz was looking at him with a bright new light in her eyes. "The rainbow out there circles the whole country," he went on dreamily. Then he laughed. "The catch is, we don't have much rain so we don't have much rainbow!" Betz laughed with him, and Julie turned her head so she could not see them. A feeling of apprehension tightened her heart. Betz hadn't looked at Gordon or any other boy the way she was looking at Wally, as if every word he said was pure magic. Wally was engaged to Sue Ellen. Julie realized she must remind Betz about this the first time they were alone. Wally lifted his voice now, so Aunt Isabelle could hear him. "They named the township a few miles from the ranch, 'Ridgehaven Town,' because Grandfather has done so much for the aborigines and everyone else who works for him in shearing time. Does that about wrap it up, Aunt Isabelle?"' "With ribbons," she answered. It was a long, monotonous ride. Julie was grateful when the TELL ME OF LOVE plane began to descend at the end of their journey. Everyone was eager to get off the plane; everyone but Aunt Isabelle. She was pale and tense and her hands twisted together. Julie knew how she felt about seeing Dr. George again. "Aunt Isabelle," she said, with tender concern, ''we both need a bit of rouge and a touch of lipstick. Here—use some of mine. And let me comb through your hair. You have such beautiful hair. It's like cotton puffs. Everyone tries to have hair the color of yours, Aunt Isabelle." "You think that because you love me,"' she murmured. "TI do," Julie smiled. "Now promise me. The minute you see Dr. George, you give him a big, gay smile and throw him a kiss." "I promise," she said. "But Julie—what if he isn't there waiting. I—can't bear it—if he didn't come. I won't be able to go on." (To be continued) Cyd A BOX OF DAYS Dorothy O. Rea NOW: My days are tidy little squares, calendared on the wall. The house is clean, ironing's done, no stray toys in the hall, His letter could come tomorrow. Or a phone call — maybe today. His room's in perfect order — in case he stops this way. THEN: The upstairs waited to be cleaned. The stairway needed washing down. But my little boy just couldn't wait. We explored the sun-drenched town. That's when ironing could wait. Beds could air the whole day long. When a child needed to be read to, or taught to sing a song. 7 Lake Mead Stake (Nevada) Singing Mothers Present Concert March 18, 1966 Mary R. Edwards, President, Lake Mead Relief Society, stands in the second row, third from the left; Almeda Deen, chorister, center front, directly behind the pulpit; Elsie Hurst, Second Counselor and assistant organist, to the right of Sister Deen; Nancy Larsen, accompanist, to the left of Sister Deen. Sister Edwards reports: " 'Let All My Life Be Music' was the theme of the first Singing Mothers concert presented in Lake Mead Stake. This was also a first for Henderson, Nevada, when eighty-six mothers of seven of the wards presented beautiful music of every type. Sisters from one of the wards traveled 180 miles round trip to participate. A choice comment came from a twelve-year old, 'Oh, I wish I were a mother, so I could sing in something pretty like that.' We were more than proud of our beautiful mothers in their black and white, with corsages of Relief Society colors. "Interspersed throughout the program were five-minute numbers from each ward, ranging from comedy to sacred themes, along with various tempos. The combined groups sang 'O Lovely Land America' by our own Sister Madsen | of the General Board and Sister Christensen. The toe tapper 'Sound of Music' and our theme song 'Let All My Life Be Music' brought to mind that in life we encounter hardships (minor chords), but we strive for something greater, 'and on a thrilling major chord, there let life end.' " Hattiesburg Stake (Mississippi) Visiting Teachers Honored at Convention and Banquet May 7, 1966 Bobbye Anderson, President, Hattiesburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme of the convention was 'The Key.' Beside each plate was placed a gold key chain, with a large royal blue crackled marble attached to it. A name card in the shape of a key was worn by each guest. Place cards were a gold key glued to a stand of blue, both made with construction paper, with names on the key shape. "The evening began with a greeting to the guests, followed by a banquet, which was prepared by the stake board members. After a short skit, members and guests went into the chapel for the remainder of the program. The Gulfport Singing Mothers provided the music. Counselor Estelle Blaylock presented the following awards: Edna Hewitt (Pascagoula Ward), for the visiting teacher with the longest period of service, presented with a large bunch of plastic grapes, to represent the fruits of her labors over the many years; Biloxi Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teaching for the year, presented with a large painting on the blue satin of the Relief Society seal; Gulfport Ward, for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers at the convention, presented with a large picture, having the lettering: 'Said Jesus, Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do' (lettering in gold on blue velvet). All of the awards were made by board members. "After the presentations, a talk on visiting teaching was made by Elsie Trussel, stake visiting teacher message leader. Then we all enjoyed the film 'Unto the Least of These.' Stake President Edwin H. White was the concluding speaker." 772 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent h the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society super- _ One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each e and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the itorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. " Par | be Oe Fo ret OCTOBER 1966 Grant Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention April 15, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Sylvia Luck, chorister; Wilma Packer, organist; Lenore Driggs, First Counselor; Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Ruth Owen, Second Counselor; Hazel Mallory, Secretary-treasurer; Irene Taylor, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Kocherhans reports: '""We held this convention for all visiting teachers of Grant Stake, and we were very pleased with the performance of our board members. One hundred twenty-five sisters were honored. The stake board presented 'And Then Came the Women, with the Singing Mothers participating. Irene Taylor gave a tribute to the visiting teachers. Our programs for the event, printed on blue paper, and decorated with a reproduction of the organization of the first Relief Society, as represented on the 'Relief Society plate,' listed the visiting teachers in four categories: those who had served fifty to sixty years (five sisters); those who had served thirty-one to forty-five years (twenty-eight sisters); those who had served twenty-one to thirty years (thirty-eight sisters); and fifty-six sisters who had served fifteen to twenty years." New York Stake (New York), Westchester Ward 'Fashion Sew'' June 3, 1966 Lyle N. Paine, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: "The event was titled a 'Fashion Sew' because each model wore something she herself had made, or someone in Westchester Ward Relief Society had made. The theme was 'She Walks in Beauty.' Each sister walked in beauty in a creation handmade by someone who cared enough to sew her very best. Sixty three different outfits were shown. The picture illustrates a beautiful wedding gown of white re-embroidered Alencon lace over 'peau de soie,' with elbow length veil, hand-appliqued in re-embroidered Alencon lace. Modeled by Claire Freedman. The dress was hand-sewed by Lenora Erekson for her daughter Rosalie, who was married to David Stone in the Salt Lake Temple. The pink and white roses were also made by Sister Erekson, and fashioned into a beautiful bouquet by Frances James, who is now president of Westchester Ward Relief Society. Jean Griffith was general chairman of the 'Fashion Sew.' " Hillside Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Presents ''Relief Society Royalty' May 13, 1966 Standing, center (at back): Counselor Louise W. Madsen of the General Presidency of Relief Society, representing President Belle S. Spafford; seated at the right of Sister Madsen: Barbara Smith, program chairman, and member Hillside Stake Relief Society Board. Seated, in front, at the left, left to right, stake board members: Evelyn Broschinsky; Sarah Summerhays; Lu Beesley; Ruby Ockey; standing, at left (near the steps), board members: Margaret Kay and Marian Johnson. Seated, at the right, left to right, executive officers of Hillside Stake Relief Society: President Leah C. Wood; Counselors Elda J. Bergesen and Luana G. Henderson; Secretary-Treasurer Helene J. Oman. Sister Wood reports: 'Hillside Stake Relief Society presented 'Relief Society Royalty' in the Relief Society Building, May 13, 1966. The nine women who have served as General Presidents of Relief Society were portrayed, and two narrators helped to tell the story. More than 350 women met together in the lovely building, and were picturesquely taken back to the very beginning of Relief Society, up to the living present. The stake Singing Mothers provided the music. Brunch was served. The success of this function might be measured by the large group who came to review the inspiring background of this great organization, and become better acquainted with the women who have stood at its helm." 774 OCTOBER 1966 Grand Junction Stake (Colorado), First Ward Presents Style Show at Closing Social May 5, 1966 Models, left to right: Rae Jones; Marion Pond; Katheryn Curtis (daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Verl Curtis); Gladys Brosius; Melva Sorensen, sewing class instructor. Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society, reports: "As a special feature of their closing social, the Grand Junction First Ward presented a style show of garments completed in the Relief Society tailoring class. The instructor, Sister Sorensen, attended an adult education class at the local junior college, and then met with the sisters to share with them the skills she had learned. Several sisters who participated in the class were not present when the picture was taken. Helen Christensen is homemaking leader; Geneva Darnell is president, with Lola Peterson and Lorraine Hall as her counselors." Union Stake (Oregon), Pilot Rock Branch Sponsors Quilt-Making Project Left to right: President Dona Jo Goold; Arlene Lee; Marilou Hutchison; Ann Crump; Doris Hadden; Velma Last, homemaking leader; Cleona Wendler; Lena Edvalson. Marion Heilner, President, Union Stake Relief Society, reports: "For the past several years, the sisters of the Pilot Rock Branch have done quilting as a building-fund project. The most recent quilt, the one pictured above, was finished for Mrs. Al Ullman, wife of the Representative in Congress from Oregon, living at the present time in Washington, D. C. The quilt top had been pieced by Mrs. Ullman's grandmother. The colors are red, white, and blue. Since there is no chapel in Pilot Rock, the quilting is done in the homes of the sisters, and finished up as soon as possible after being put on the frames. The quilt illustrated above was quilted in one week. "The Pilot Rock Branch leads Union Stake in membership percentage and attendance most of the time. The sisters have ideas for a successful Relief Society, and they carry them out with enthusiasm. Sister Dona Jo Goold, wife of the branch president, has served as Relief Society president for several years." Taylor Stake (Alberta, Canada) Relief Society Board Directs Display and Fashion Show for Social April 30, 1966 Seated, in front, left to right: Alberta Dudley, First Counselor; Vinessa Hamilton, President; Ruth Rice, Second Counselor; Jean Wheeler, chorister. Standing, back row, left to right: Afton Keeler; Lyda Poulson; Colleen Low; Jill Harker; Margaret Hindley; Loretta Dahl; Avilda Harker. Sister Hamilton reports: ""The hall was attractively decorated in a spring theme, with each display booth sponsored by one of the wards or branches, and each accentuated our theme 'Relief Society in action.' The booths displayed: Christmas ideas, kitchen articles, art (including water colors and oils by our very talented artists), patio furniture, flower arrangements, sewing items for use by all members of the family, miscellaneous needlework, knitted and crocheted articles, including many lovely dresses, suits, and coats; children's party ideas, children's rooms and doll furniture; and a wedding setting, featuring a bride in her own beautiful gown against a background picturing the Alberta temple, and including her trousseau. "A musical program was held in conjunction with a most inspiring fashion show of teenage and adult fashions, and light refreshments were served to a large and appreciative audience. All of the articles which were on display and in the fashion show were created in the past year, showing that the sisters are constantly adding culture and refinement to their homes. A successful bake sale was also held, and we feel that the stake was unified through cooperative participation." 7716 Uintah Stake (Utah), Jensen for Many Occasions Front row, seated, left to right: Rose Robinson, chorister; Mary Ann Snow, pianist; Vera Snow; Josephine Stewart; Leta Snow (age 17); Lucinda Sewell (age 84); Ella Ainge; Marilyn Ainge; Gertrude Turner. Second row, standing, left to right: Beverly Shewell; Laura Chew; Gladys Peterson; Nita Powell; Nettie Hill; Eleanor Chew; Ila Peterson; Sylvia Slaugh; Rita Ruppe. Norda G. Cook, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports: "A large percentage of the Jensen Ward Relief Society members belong to this singing group. They perform for many varied gatherings, for the different ward organizations, funerals, and other functions. They are proud to have among the singers the oldest active Singing Mother in Uintah Stake, Lucinda Sewell. Leta Snow, seventeen, is also a member of the group, and is one of the youngest Singing Mothers in the stake." Gooding Stake (Idaho) 'Ideas Fair Exchange' May 7, 1966 Gooding Ward Relief Society presidency, standing at one of the attractive handicraft booths, left to right: Norma Jenkins, Counselor; Alberta Butler, Counselor; Edith Stutzman, homemaking leader; Carol Sagers, President. Elaine P. Dixon, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: "Eight wards participated, with attractively decorated booths, displaying many useful and beautiful items. Each ward sponsored a demonstration, including a fashion show of lovely home-sewed clothing for the family." Lesson Department i \ 4 SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 76—How to Act Amid Persecution Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 97; 98:23-48 Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman endures persecution in a spirit INTRODUCTION In the month of July 1833, the persecution of the saints in Jackson County commenced. At the beginning of the following month, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a_ revelation which concerned primarily the saints in Missouri. (D&C 97.) He did not know what had happened to the saints in Jackson County, although he knew that trouble was possible. The Prophet was told in the revelation that many of the Church members in the land of Zion were endeavoring to learn the truths of the gospel, and upon them the Lord would be merciful at the judgment. (D&C 97:1-2.) Special commendation was given to Elder Parley P. Pratt of understanding and forgiveness. Who was conducting the School of Elders in Missouri, and who was laboring diligently to succeed in this calling. (Ibid., verses 3-5.) Elder Pratt walked about six miles, sometimes barefoot, to attend this school held in the outdoors. (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, pp. 93-94.) Not all the saints were acceptable to the Lord, for he said: The ax is laid at the root of the trees; and every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit shall be hewn down and cast into the fire. I, the Lord, have spoken it. Verily I say unto you, all among them who know their hearts are honest, and are broken, and their spirits contrite, and are willing to observe their covenants by sacrifice— yea, every sacrifice which I, the Lord, shall command—they are accepted of me (D&C 97:7-8). 779 OCTOBER 1966 SACRIFICE There are several meanings of sacrifice, but it seems that the one most pertinent to Section 97 is the giving up of some cherished or desired object. The sacrifice required of the saint is the giving up of everything, if necessary— even life itself. (Ibid., 97:13-15; 101:35-38.) To be accepted of the Lord means that the Lord approves of one's actions, but to remain in that condition requires continued faithfulness to commandments. As President Brigham Young points out, in the following, how trivial are some of the sacrifices we make on this earth compared with the greatness of the blessings to be received: Now, you Elders who understand the principles of the kingdom of God, what would you not give, do, or sacrifice, to assist in building up His kingdom upon the earth? Says one, "I would do anything in my power, anything that the Lord would help me to do, to build up His kingdom." Says another, "I would sacrifice all my property." Wonderful indeed! Do you not know that the possession of your property is like a shadow, or the dew of the morning before the noonday sun, that you cannot have any assurance of its control for a single moment! It is the unseen hand of Providence that controls it. In short, what would you not sacrifice? The Saints sacrifice everything; but, strictly speaking, there is no sacrifice about it. If you give a penny for a million of gold! A handful of earth for a planet! A temporary worn out tenement for one glorified, that will exist, abide, and continue to increase throughout a never ending eternity, what a sacrifice to be sure! (Journal of Discourses 1:114). CLASS DISCUSSION: Discuss "Sacrifice required in the gospel is insignificant when 780 compared to the blessings to be earned by the faithful." TEMPLE IN JACKSON COUNTY Instructions had been given that a temple should be built in Jackson County, Missouri, and the site had been dedicated, August 3, 1831, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. (D&C 57:3.) Section 97 contains a command to build this temple, and this was the sacrifice required of the people. Above all, its purpose was for the salvation of the members of the Church. It was to be a place of thanksgiving, a place of instruction, a place where the Church might be perfected in all things pertaining to the kingdom of God. This perfection would come through understanding the principles and doctrines of the gospel through the keys which had already been _ conferred. (Ibid., 97:10-14.) With the fulfillment of this commandment and the sanctity of that edifice being preserved, the promise of the Lord's presence was given. In that temple the pure in heart would see God. CLASS DISCUSSION: What place does the temple have in helping us to keep the commandments? IF ZION DO THESE THINGS If the saints would faithfully discharge their responsibilities as given in Section 97, great blessings would come to the Church in Zion. She would become very great and very glorious in her prosperity. Zion would be honored by the nations, never to be moved out of her place, for it was to be the abode of God. All of this was dependent upon how well Zion—the pure in heart— kept the commandments. At the time Section 97 was received, the saints were already being persecuted in Jackson County, and the order to move or to be killed had been given by the mob. Despite this situation, fully known to the Lord, he promised that if they would do as commanded, Zion could be redeemed. And, now, behold, if Zion do these things she shall prosper.... Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion —THE PURE IN HEART... (D&C 97:18, 21). The challenge to be pure in heart was complied with by many but, apparently, not in sufficient strength to warrant the blessings of Zion's redemption at that time. How many must keep the commandments in order to forestall the judgments predicted? In reference to the judgments to be poured out upon the world in the last days, President Brigham Young said if the judgments of God come upon the Latter-day Saints it will be because the majority have turned from the Lord. If six-tenths or three-fourths will keep the commandments the judgments will not come upon them. (Journal of Discourses, 10:335-336.) Appropriate to the meaning of Zion and its application to what has already been written, President Young said: We can make Zion, or we can make Babylon, just as we please. We can make just what we please of this place. The people can make Zion: they can make a heaven within themselves. When people gather here, they should come with a determination to make Zion within themselves, with the LESSON DEPARTMENT resolution that "I will carry myself full of the Spirit of Zion wherever I go; and this is the way in which I will control evil spirits; for I mean that my spirit shall have control over evil:" and do you not see that such a course will make Zion? (Ibid., 5:4). CLASS DISCUSSION: How does "making Zion" apply to us in our individual families and homes? COVENANTED ZION The saints in Jackson County, in 1833, as also the saints throughout the world today, were under covenant to build Zion, but this could be done only by having the spirit of Zion in their hearts. (D&C 6:6.) To accomplish this goal one must always be on guard against the adversary of righteousness. President Stephen L Richards categorized the present world as "self-sufficient, egotistical, materialistic, and _ skeptical," whereas, "The philosophy of Zion is humility, not servility, but a willing recognition of the sovereignty of God and dependence on his providence." President Richards said that Zion is being attacked from all sides today. The attack is on our concept of personal moral purity, and, in the home, it is the curtailment of the size of the family. A serious aspect of our times is that of indifference and neglect among the membership. Zion, however, will survive, notwithstanding some will succumb to these attacks of Satan. Those, however, who feel themselves self-sufficient, do not enjoy the one great blessing for aid and comfort—the Spirit of God. (Conference Report, October 1951, pp. 110-117.) 781 OCTOBER 1966 SAINTS DID NOT HEED Elder Parley P. Pratt recorded in his Autobiography that the revelation numbered Section 97 was not complied with by the Church leaders in Jackson County, although there were many faithful there. Because Zion did not then consist of sufficient faithful members to bring to pass the fulfillment of Zion's destiny, "the threatened judgment was poured out to the uttermost, as the history of the five following years will show" (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, Deseret Book Company, 1950, page 96). Within that period the saints were expelled from the State of Missouri. JUDGMENTS OF THE LAST DAYS These following verses concerning the judgments to come upon the wicked apply to the time before the second coming of Christ (Conference Report, October 1917, pp. 44-45; Smirn, JOSEPH FIELDING: Progress of Man, page 478): For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it? The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come; For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works (D&C 97: 22-24). In the "Lord's Preface" to the Doctrine and Covenants, given in 1831, it is said that the time will come when peace shall be taken from the earth. (Ibid., 1: 35.) The American Civil War was the beginning war of modern 782 times. (Ibid., 87:1.) As stated in the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary: The American Civil War was only the beginning of a series of conflicts, each leading up to the world-war of 1914. This is all the more remarkable, because since the middle of the 19th century, the peace movement in the world assumed so definite proportions as to warrant the hope that there would be no war in the 20th century (page 536). During the Civil War the area of Jackson County was invaded and the land laid to waste. (B. H. Roberts, New Witnesses for God, Vol. 1, pp. 298-299.) Because of wickedness the people of the earth are to feel the wrath and indignation of the Lord. These judgments—the '"Lord's scourge' —will continue until the second coming of Christ. ZION SHALL ESCAPE IF... In a_ context of promised destruction upon Jackson County, in particular, and the world in general because of wickedness, the revelation then turns to the members of the Church, who are known as "Zion." Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire (D&C 97: 25-26). The only way of safety is through keeping the commandments. In the words of Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve:... Why should we hope to escape, who have been baptized into this Church, yet ignore the commandments of the Lord? For there are among us those who do not keep the Word of Wisdom, some of us do not pay our tithing; we do not sanctify ourselves by adding unto our faith, virtue; to virtue, knowledge, to knowledge, temperance, and patience, and godliness, and brotherly kindness. Why should we claim exemption— we who know the truth, we who have been warned, we who will testify that we believe God has spoken—why should we escape if we do not keep the commandments of the Lord? (Conference Report, June 1919, p. 89). On the other hand, if the Latter-day Saints keep the commandments, the Lord has promised to multiply blessings upon the Church and upon her generations forever. (D&C 97:27-28.) BACKGROUND SECTION 98 Only a few days after Section 97 was received and seventeen days after the Missouri mob began their work of destruction upon the saints, the Lord revealed further information regarding the manner in which they should conduct themselves. The saints were enjoined to be patient in tribulation. Their prayers had been heard and their fulfillment would be realized. The Lord also counseled "and all things wherewith you have been afflicted shall work together for your good, and to my name's glory" (Ibid., 98:3). Three laws are explained in this revelation that the saints might know what the Lord commanded of the ancients, and what should be expected of us today. THE LAW OF RETALIATION The first of these laws is the law of retaliation discussed in LESSON DEPARTMENT verses 23 through 32. It requires that families in the Church bear patiently the abuse and smiting of others the first, second, and third time, but if the offense is committed the fourth time, then a warning should be given and, if necessary, the offender should be rewarded according to his works. However, if one patiently endures after the fourth time, his reward will be even greater. The doctrine of patience under persecution is the teaching of the Sermon on the Mount. (Matt. 5:21-22, 43- 44.) THE LAW OF WAR The next law is the law of war. First, we should understand that anciently the Lord told his people when they could go to war. Then they would be justified. War in itself was not the object of life, and if a nation would come against his people they should sue for peace. If, after this, the enemy did not accept this offer of peace the second or third time, the Lord would fight their battles. This promise extended to their children's children to the third and fourth generations. (D&C 28:33-38.) Ancient Israel was not to go to war until their peace offers were refused. (Deut. 20:10 cf.; 2:26- 29.) The Book of Mormon provides us with a concept of war that is consistent with the counsel given in Section 98. (Alma 48:14-16.) The Nephites believed that, notwithstanding the Lord would fight their battles if they kept his commandments, it was necessary that they do everything possible to bring about victory in war. In charging Pahoran, the governor of the land, with with- 783 OCTOBER 1966 holding men and supplies with which to fight the Lamanites, Moroni wrote him as follows: Or do ye suppose that the Lord will still deliver us, while we sit upon our thrones and do not make use of the means which the Lord has provided for us? (Alma 60:21). An official statement, adopted in 1831, gives the position of the Church regarding this principle: We believe that all men are bound to sustain. And uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated -to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience (D&C 1384:5). THE LAW OF FORGIVENESS In closing Section 98, the law of forgiveness is given. This law contains the elements of the other two laws in this revelation. Repeated transgressions by one people or nation against another should be forgiven. This practice of forgiveness should be continued as long as they repent; however, if they do not repent, then the nation should bear it patiently, even unto the third time. If it happens the fourth time, they should not be forgiven and these testimonies should be brought before the Lord. Repentance should include four-fold restitution. If, however, repentance is not made, then their children unto the third and fourth generation should receive the Lord's vengeance. If the children or their children should repent, no judgment would fall upon them. (D&C 98:39-48.) As pointed out above, a nation should not engage in an offensive war, but it has the right to defend itself against those who come against her. President Charles W. Penrose counseled the Latter-day Saints against the desire to shed blood or to destroy. (Conference Report, April 1917, pp. 20-22.) Effort should be made to avert war. But if a country is drawn into a war after having tried to keep out of the conflict, every effort should be made to win the victory, as indicated in this lesson earlier. FOR CONSIDERATION How can you, as Latter-day Saint women, teach your children to be diligent and willing to sacrifice for one another and for the Church? BEING EDUCATED "Being educated means to prefer the best not only to the worst but to the second best," said a good friend and philosopher, William Lyon Phelps. Often we are put on the spot to justify an education for a person if he does not make more money than an uneducated person, and surprisingly enough, many do not. The above quotation is another good reason for having an education — to raise one's tastes, to lift standards, to help one be satisfied with only the best — the best literature, the best homemaking, the best performance in any art. Especially is it necessary for one to set a high standard in Church service. Only excellence is worthy for the Lord. —Caroline Eyring Miner 784 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 76 — ''Ask and Ye Shall Receive' (D&C 103:35) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show that all that man receives requires his The Lord loves all people. He lived to teach them, and died to save them. Repeatedly in the scriptures, he said, "Ask and ye shall receive." inviting the establishment of a close, loving relationship with him. "Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (D&C 88: 63). What greater or warmer invitation could one have? And yet men find him not, and many of our world despair and claim that God is dead. Is it possible that they and, perhaps, sometimes we, misunderstand the nature of that invitation of the Lord? A child of six kneels at his mother's knee and prays that tomorrow the sun will shine so that the family can go on a planned picnic. It rains all the next day. The seed of doubt is planted and he asks "Didn't God hear me?" This presents a "teaching moment" for the mother — an opportunity to help the child understand that the farmer was probably praying for rain. The mother's purpose is to help her child to mature in prayer as he matures in age to effort as well as God's help. The point where he eventually can pray: "Not my will, but thine, be done." A few years ago a couple and their children pulled off the highway when they remembered that they had not prayed before leaving home. As they turned back onto the highway into the path of oncoming cars, a car hit them broadside, killing their fiveyear-old child. That such tragedy should result when the intent was so well meaning may prompt some to ask, "Why would God have allowed this?" But we must remember that the laws of the universe cannot be set aside, and that one should drive with responsible care. The righteous prayers of that family were heard, but a rule of safety was broken. There are many _ instances where prayers ascend to heaven requesting contradictory answers as in the case of opposing teams or contestants, or on the battlefield, or even in the case of the child requesting sunshine and the farmer praying for rain. In our prayers do we not often misunderstand our responsibility and the Lord's purposes and will? If we approach God as a loving Father, for what do we ask? We 785 OCTOBER 1966 thoughtfully and prayerfully consider our role in our request. Have we done all that we can do in addition to seeking divine aid? Have we studied the scriptures carefully so that we know the Lord's suggestions as to what we should pray for? Do we carefully weigh our responsibilities and ask the question, "Am I doing what is expected of me?" The scriptures tell us that man should ask in mighty prayer, nothing wavering, drawing near unto the Lord in humility, seeking him diligently in faith, and walking uprightly before him. HOMEMAKING — Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show how a budget sets up guidelines which INTRODUCTION The scriptures tell us that "love of money is the root of all evil." Without denying the validity of this statement, it should also be said that careful and wise manipulation and disposition of money can and does work for the good of mankind. There is a continuing reason why a family should practice thrift and wise spending. This reason is valid whether the family is one just beginning or one'in any of the later stages of develop-. Ment up to and through retirement. This reason has its origin deeply rooted in the irrefutable law that one cannot spend indis- - criminately his money, his talent,. His energy, or whatever he may possess without diminishing his supply and, eventually, depleting it. Every family has certain goals and objectives which are vital to its well-being. Their attainment 786 help solve financial problems. Involves careful financial planning and management, best accomplished through the establishment and use of a budget — a personalized system of money management which will help the family to achieve its own goals and objectives. FORMULATING A PLAN OF EXPENDITURES Family money management by means of a well-planned budget develops in each family member an understanding of his or her responsibility by showing what it costs to live and the need for making the right choices. It does not mean rigidly following some plan worked out by an expert and involving complicated bookkeeping. A family should design its own budget and shape it to serve the needs, interests, and desires of its members. In making any budget, four procedures are useful to most families: (1) Estimating family income; (2) Calculating fixed expenses; (3) Planning daily expenditures, including incidentals; (4) Planning savings and emergency funds. ESTIMATING FAMILY INCOME An appraisal of the family income will include "take-home pay" from wages, regular salary, commissions, part-time earnings, as well as monies from pensions, rental income, dividends, interest, or any additional income which might be forthcoming. Discusss: Why is it wise to plan on the basis of the average minimum rather than the average maximum income? CALCULATING FIXED EXPENDITURES Every family has certain expenses which must be paid at certain times throughout the year — monthly, quarterly, semiannually, or annually. These expenses should be listed under the month in which they fall due. If they cannot be paid out of one pay check, the total should be divided into periodic payments and a reserve fund started. The list of fixed expenditures should include the following: (1) Tithing and Church contributions. (2) Taxes. These include federal, state, and city income taxes; personal property taxes, and any others that might apply. (3) Rent and fixed housing expenses. This might include mortgage payments or others that apply. (4) Debts. These include amounts due on_ household equipment, bank loans, or any other financial obligations. (5) Insurance. This includes life insurance, health and accident policies, liability insurance, fire insurance, and any other policies the family may carry. PLANNING DAILY EXPENDITURES Day-to-day living costs offer daily opportunities to practice LESSON DEPARTMENT wise spending. The principal items that are usually included in daily expenses are the following: (1) Food. This includes all expenditures for meals eaten at home or meals eaten out, as well as all food accessories such as beverages, snacks. (2) Household services. These should include supplies, repairs, operation, facilities, laundry, and cleaning, etc. (3) Clothing. This includes all wearing apparel, materials, and upkeep. (4) Automobile and_ transportation costs. These include gasoline and oil, repairs and maintenance, and any public transportation costs. (5) Medical care. This category covers the services of physicians and dentists, medical supplies, and all such expenses not covered by insurance. (6) Personal allowances. This is one of the important parts of the family spending plan, for it gives each member a feeling of independence and interest in cooperating with the plan. (7) Family development and recreation. This includes creative and artistic development (music lessons or development of other skills), vacation, equipment for sports and other leisure activities. (8) Variables. Differing localities, climates, and other variables would add to or take from this list. Discuss: John and Mary spend everything they earn and save nothing. Discuss how a budget plan can remedy this situation. PLANNING SAVINGS AND EMERGENCY FUNDS Every family should make some provision for saving in their financial plan. Regular saving helps a family to achieve a sense of security. When possible, it should be large enough to cover both emergency funds and longterm goals such as_ education, missions, retirement, vacations, and other desired attainments. Savings are the result of careful planning and, usually, the renouncing of some present desires. 787 A SIMPLE MONTHLY TIMATED MONTH PSNCOME FIXED EXPENDITURES BEFORE | TAKE | TITHING | TAXES] RENT | DEBTS|INSURANCE DEDUC- | HOME AND TIONS | PAY FIXED EXPENSES JANUARY FEBRUARY March through December are recorded the same as the above two months—January and February In the beginning a daily record should be kept and loose-leaf note-book will serve the purpose.) Most banks and insurance companies provide free budget forms for the asking. Discuss: 1. Sam and Ruth put away so much that they feel deprived and frustrated in their everyday living. Why is this unwise? 2. There are times when financial demands are so heavy that the entire income is not sufficient to cover regular living expenses so that saving seems neither practical nor feasible. Discuss possible solutions. MAKING THE SPENDING PLAN BALANCE Wise planning and conscientious effort on the part of all members of the family are required to formulate and carry out a suc- 788 cessful budget plan, but once it is accomplished it will bring the income, expenditures, and savings of the family into a balance and will result in blessings of lasting benefit and fulfillment to all its members. WHEN MAKING YOUR BUDGET, KEEP IN MIND THE FOLLOWING 1. The family should make its own plan to fit its own particular situation. 2. The plan should be made simple and practical. 3. The plan should be realistic— neither overly ambitious nor ultra conservative. 4. The plan should be carefully and conscientiously followed. The totals recorded in the above form. (A ve AMILY BUDGET PLAN DAILY EXPENDITURES SAVINGS EMERGENCIES FOOD HOUSE- |CLOTHING HOLD SERVICES CAR AND TRANSPORTATION MEDICAL CARE PERSONAL ALLOWANCES VARIABLES RECREATION AND OTHER De eee a | SOCIAL RELATIONS — On Earth and in Heaven INTRODUCTION It is impossible, perhaps to overemphasize the importance of law in our lives, for man has alAlberta H. Christensen Lesson 1 — On Earth and in Heaven Reference: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual - 1967) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To consider the general subject of law as it affects mankind, and to emphasize that through the operation of law an immutable alliance binds earth to heaven. Ways existed within a framework of law. It operates in all areas of life and in all states of being. Neither nature nor mankind can 789 OCTOBER 1966 be divorced from its influence. Since the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood lessons and the Home Evening Manual focus "upon the law and its meaning for the individual as a Church member and as a citizen," the Social Relations lessons of Relief Society will correlate with this general theme. This introductory lesson will invite discussion on the general subject of law as it affects mankind, emphasizing a_ consideration of the immutable alliance between heaven and earth. In a general discussion of law we may properly consider: (1) divine law which is associated with the creation and operation of the universe, spoken of as natural law: (2) divine commandments which are associated with man's individual development toward perfection; and (3) laws which are instituted by man, by actual legislation or developed through custom and known as "laws of the land." Involved in all law is the factor of enforcement by authority, whether that authority be the divine will of the Creator, or as in the area of manmade laws, the compulsion of personal conscience, the authority of the tribe, the community, or the sovereign state. NATURAL LAW We associate the term natural law with the fundamental laws of creation and operation of the universe. They are basic and they are immovable for they are eternal. "The entire universe is governed by law' (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: The Progress of Man, page 26)... He hath given a law unto all 790 things, by which they move in their times and their seasons; And their courses are fixed, even the courses of the heavens and the earth, which comprehend the earth and all the planets (D&C 88:42-43). The Prophet Joseph Smith is author of the following statements regarding the universe and its operation by law:... If man has grown to wisdom and is capable of discerning the propriety of laws to govern nations, what less can be expected from the Ruler and Upholder of the universe? Can we suppose that He has a kingdom without laws?... We admit that God is the great source and fountain from whence proceeds all good; that He is perfect intelligence, and that His wisdom is alone sufficient to govern and regulate the mighty creations and worlds which shine and blaze with such magnificence and splendor over our heads as though touched with His finger and moved by His Almighty word. And if so. It is done and regulated b. Law: for without law all must certainis fall into chaos (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING. Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Page 55). In reference to the fact that law underlies and permeates the very fabric of existence, since it is fundamental, we read _ the words of the Nephite prophet Lehi, who discussed with his son Jacob, the law of opposition in all things: And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery. And if these are not there is no God. And if there is no God we are not, neither the earth; for there could have been no creation of things, neither to act nor to he acted upon... (2 Nephi 2:13). CONSISTENCY IN NATURE That the laws of nature operate with consistency is evident to those who observe carefully and who study seriously the physical world in which we live, for God's house is a house of order. This orderliness, this consistency of performance, which brings predictable results, indicates an infinitely wise Creator and reveals an adherence to his divine plan. Is it not reasonable, therefore, to say that where nature appears to us as inconsistent and capricious, it is because we do not understand all factors which constitute the law? Would a miracle be considered as such, if we knew and understood all facets of the laws which produce the miracle? The Lord, being omniscient, can perform miracles in his wisdom, however the faithful member of the Church depends on faith in times of stress in the absence of miracles. We may observe, also, that when we are in conflict with natural law, whether consciously or unknowingly, we experience the results of violation. Examples: 1. Ignorance of the burning effect of fire does not protect a child's hand from injury, if brought into contact with a flame. 2. Lack of knowledge regarding the law of gravity does not prevent one's falling earthward from a cliff. REVEALED TO ADAM Mortal man's first laws came through revelation to Adam who taught them to his children. That they were of spiritual import, defining the relationship of man's earth-experience with his ultimate destiny, may be. Implied from the following: Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, LESSON DEPARTMENT and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal (D&C 29:34). In the light of the foregoing scripture, may we say that the commandments of God_ are actually statements of divine law, obedience to which will bring and sustain man in harmony with natural laws and the will of the Creator for his children? Particularly relevant is the following modern scripture: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D&C 180:20-21). The scripture and the truth which are basic to this irrevocable law may be so generally familiar to us that we fail to realize and consider how actual and fundamental they are, and how specifically they apply to even the small details of each day's activities. They apply also to the acquiring of qualities we wish to incorporate into our personalities. Class Involvement Discussion 1. What particular disciplines are required in order to be: sincere, kind, humble, gracious, honest, and to acquire empathy? 2. What particular disciplines are required for forgiveness? Can one forgive an injury without complying with those disciplines? No reasonable person wishes to be selfish, for he knows that selfishness alienates friends, even loved ones; he knows that selfishness deprives a person of the capacity truly to love others. 791 OCTOBER 1966 What are the necessary qualifications one must possess in order to fulfill the law upon which unselfishness is based? Class Involvement Discussion Discuss other personal or group blessings which require similar compliance with the laws involved. How do the familiar phrases, cause and effect and compensation in all things relate to the irrevocable law referred to in the foregoing modern scripture? The class members might consider the following life illustration: Woman A. How I wish I could play the piano as well as you do. If I could, I would accompany my husband when he sings. I have always been interested in music. Woman B. You don't really wish you could play the piano. If you did, you would. You would need, however, to have and acquire all that the laws of musicianship demand — the desire, the know-how, and consistent practicing. LAWS OF MAN The laws of man are not perfect as are the laws of God because they are not made by perfect beings. Latter-day Saints have been counseled to elect wise and just men to fill public office and to enact laws which will guarantee the inalienable rights of the individual. (D&C 101:77.) In a declaration of belief regarding governments and laws in general, we have the following: We believe... That: all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience (D&C 134:5). 792 INFLUENCE OF DIVINE WILL Although most of the posterity of Adam did not obey the divine laws which were their heritage, the influence of such laws is found in rules for human conduct which man has legislated into law through the generations. The Prophet Joseph Smith declared: It is reasonable to suppose that man departed from the first teachings, or instructions which he received from heaven in the first age, and refused by his disobedience to be governed by them. Consequently, he formed such laws as best suited his own mind, or as he supposed, were best adapted to his situation. But that God has influenced man more or less since that time in the formation of law for his benefit we have no hesitancy in believing; for, as before remarked, being the source of all good, every just and equitable law was in a greater or less degree influenced by Him. And though man in his own supposed wisdom would not admit the influence of a power superior to his own, yet for wise and great purposes, for the good and happiness of His creatures, God has _ instructed man to form wise and wholesome laws, since he had departed from Him and refused to be governed by those laws which God had given by His own voice from on high in the beginning (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith; page 57.) ON EARTH AND IN HEAVEN The phrase "On earth and in heaven" suggests to the mind something held in common, held by both earth and heaven. In this lesson we use the implication of the phrase as being something shared for mutual benefit, as a covenant between earth and heaven — an alliance between earth-life and eternity. What constitutes this bond or covenant? What are some of the specifics which form this significant alliance? The laws of men, legislated upon earth, which honor man's inherent right of choice, contribute to this alliance between earth and heaven; also, all laws which foster in men a love of justice, and of brotherly watchcare, that motivate equitable self-sacrifice in the interest of those who are less fortunate; laws which motivate men to be better individuals and thus advance their progress toward perfection, all these help to ally earth with heaven. Latter-day Saints know that the gospel of Jesus Christ, formulated in the heavens and bestowed as a blessing to man in the flesh and also throughout eternity, operates in conformity with divine law. This gospel is a covenant between earth life and eternal life. Class Involvement Discussion A covenant involves a_ promise. What promise in this covenant does God make? The family of man receives the promise of immortality. In addition, and on an individual basis, man is promised eternal life in the celestial kingdom, with all its attendant blessings. What promise in this covenant does man make? He promises to obey the Jaws upon which the blessings of the gospel are predicated. Both commandment and promise bind us to eternity. SPECIAL DELEGATED POWER Associated with the gospel is the earthly exercise of the delegated power and authority of the Priesthood. Relief Society women have studied its function. They know of and do experience its manifold blessings. Because of the sealing power of this divine. LESSON DEPARTMENT law of authority, our departed families, and the promises of heaven are brought nearer to us. Of the sealing power we read: It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of a power which records or binds on earth and binds in heaven. Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great Jehovah (D&C 128:9). Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is granted that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven (D&C 128:8). The President of the Church alone holds the keys of this sacred Priesthood power. Its function and use are regulated by a divine edict. Supreme in this alliance is the Savior himself — the Creator of both heaven and earth. He is the Mediator -—— man's Advocate with the Father — and he is the embodiment of divine law. How very blessed is all mankind through this alliance! For Discussion How may family members be taught to honor and respect civil law and to appreciate its protection and security? For Home-doing Analyze two or three virtues you would like to acquire or to improve, as to the disciplines necessary for their acquisition. Intensify your effort to acquire them, by specific and consistent action. 793 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 3 — Humility Yields Strength "Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights." Henry David Thoreau Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: As she is teachable, a woman is able to help others become receptive to the inner strengths of meekness and gentility. ® We live in an age in which the majority of Christians still subscribe to the Christian virtue, humility, yet who among us has ever seen a plea for a humble young man or woman in "Help Wanted" advertisements? We can't quite explain this away by insisting that business is a world apart; for our general teachings to children, both at home and at school, are consistent in their support of standing up for rights, being at the top of the class, and winning in sports. We seldom think positively about humility. If we consider it at all, it is usually as a counter to pride. Almost invariably it carries connotations of weakness. The writers who illuminate the concept of humility in this month's lesson share the conviction that it is an attitude rather than a state and that it can be a dynamic, positive force in our lives if we understand it. The short poems which open our consideration of humility reflect markedly different views. Emily Dickinson's short lines stress the independence yet unifying effect of humility. Whittier's "First Day Thoughts" points out the self-discipline that conscious humility brings, and 794 Bunyan's "The Shepherd Boy's Song" emphasizes the dynamic contentment of the humble. In "The Guests of Mrs. Timms," humility is saved from identification with timidity and uncertainty, and in "Mother," we find the difference between service and servility clearly illustrated. John Woolman concludes the section with a record of his personal experience which shows that control is basic to meekness that can result in spiritual growth. In humility so presented we truly see the heavenly lights. For as we read it begins to become evident that humility is more than the absence of vanity. It exists as an unassuming—but immensely positive and powerful —source of strength. It is not given by default but must be achieved in effort as rewarding as it is quiet. (From introduction to Section III of text, paragraphs 2 and 3.) LINES FROM EMILY DICKINSON How happy is the little stone That rambles in the road alone, And doesn't care about careers, And exigencies never fears; Whose coat of elemental brown A passing Universe put on; And independent as the sun, Associates or glows alone, Fulfilling absolute decree In casual simplicity. Despite the casual tone of these lines, the explicit glories of humility are revealed with precision that repays the closest analysis. The choice of words is especially exciting. Note "rambles" in the second line, for instance. Miss Dickinson apparently feels that it is too easy to equate having goals and direction with a positive approach to life. As the next line suggests, some "careers"? May not be positive. Further suggestion that freedom from the dictates of vanity can be appealing is given in the suggestion that we should not put on our own outer covering in slavish adherence to fashion but should let nature clothe us with that which is essential and appropriate. To reduce one's life to essentials is not to take the easy path, for such reduction requires discriminating choice, and when one has arrived at the truly important, it is a comfort to find that the truth unites all people who are anxiously seeking it. FIRST DAY THOUGHTS In calm and cool and silence, once again I find my old accustomed place among My brethren, where. Perchance, no human tongue Shall utter words: hymn is sung, Nor deep-toned organ blown, nor censer swung, Nor dim light falling through the pictured pane. There, syllabled by silence, let me hear The still small voice which reached the prophet's ear; Read in my heart a still diviner law where never LESSON DEPARTMENT Than Israel's leader on his tables saw! There let me strive with each besetting sin, Recall my wandering fancies, and restrain The sore disquiet of a restless brain; And, as the path of duty is made plain, May grace be given that I may walk therein, Not like the hireling, for his selfish gain, With backward glances and reluctant tread, Making a merit of his coward dread, But, cheerful, in the light around me thrown, ee as one to pleasant service ea; Doing God's will as if it were my own, Yet trusting not in mine, but in His strength alone! Few groups have sought more earnestly to become receptive to the still, small voice of conscience than the Society of Friends or Quakers of which Whittier was a member. "First Day Thoughts" is typical of Quaker effort to submit to the will of God as that will is made manifest in the heart. THE SHEPHERD BOY'S SONG This little poem occurs in the second part of Pilgrim's Progress in which Christian's wife and children undertake to follow their husband and father. Under the guidance of Mr. Greatheart, the pilgrims reach the Valley of Humiliation. Here they come upon a coarsely clad shepherd boy and listen to his artless song. THE SHEPHERD BOY'S SONG He that is down need fear no fall, He that is low, no pride; He that is humble, ever shall Have God to be his guide, I am content with what I have, Little be it, or much; - And, Lord, contentment still I crave, Because thou savest such. 795 OCTOBER 1966 Fulness to such, a burden is, That go on pilgrimage; Here little, and hereafter bliss, Is best from age to age. —John Bunyan (1628-1688) The theme of these lines is contentment, which gives earthly peace of mind yet prepares us to accept heaven's bounty. The contentment which Bunyan emphasizes is not resignation. It is awareness that we must prepare ourselves for the truly good by ridding ourselves of the false. Whittier's self-discipline enables him to give both personal and general meaning to his religious worship. Bunyan would divest himself of obvious world cares. Whittier must forego the religious devices which seem to be a part of worship, but which actually get in the way of a simple, responsible relationship with God. In both cases there is a yielding of one's own will to the will of God, but in neither case is the surrender one of weakness. It takes all the strength we can muster to achieve the receptive attitude that is a critical characteristic of humility. THE GUESTS OF MRS. TIMMS This story by Sarah Orne Jewett gives us both positive and negative views of humility. The two main characters, Mrs. Flagg and Miss Pickett, demonstrate that humility is neither uncertainty nor timidity. In fact, the counterfeit meekness they display is frighteningly close to vanity. It hardly matters that Miss Pickett is really rather sensitive; she may see her problem more clearly than the obtuse Mrs. Flagg, but she really does very little about it. One cannot be truly humble by being sensi- 796 tive only to oneself. Only Nancy Fell, who is hardly more than an afterthought for the visitors, exemplifies the humility which can reach out to others without affectation. In her own lack of ostentation, she can make others feel wanted and special. Since she is not preoccupied with herself, she can listen to others tell of their experiences. How revealing of Miss Fell's real compassion for her visitors is Miss Pickett's comment concerning how "desirous" she was to have them recount to her the details of a recent church conference. Someone as humble as Nancy Fell might not need to pretend interest. Quite possibly she was capable of getting enjoyment out of the simplest account. Henry David Thoreau once insisted that wealth was not a matter of accumulation but of reducing your wants so they could be satisfied. It is almost a shock to realize that Nancy Fell had so prepared herself that she could actually enjoy a visit from Mrs. Flagg and Miss Pickett! Class Discussion Do we feel any sympathy with Mrs. Flagg or Miss Pickett? Will their experience in this story change them? What meaning does it have to you? MOTHER This excerpt from the novel by Kathleen Norris contrasts not only the impatience of youth with the serenity of age, but, more significantly, lets us participate as a vain young girl starts to become a humble, mature woman. Few stories show the "sladness" of humility more effectively. Professor Penison's comment that he has finally discovered what Margaret's mother "sets out" of unending effort and sacrifice, is revealing: 'There's something magnificent in a woman like your mother, who, instead of one destiny, starts eight! Responsibility—that's what people are afraid of! But it seems to me there's no responsibility like that of decreeing that young lives simply shall not be." These lines catch the distinctive quality of Mrs. Paget's humility. It is a humility born of willing service, anxious love. Mrs. Paget is not a doormat, and she is not stupid. She has chosen her role gladly and _ realistically. Providing for a family of ten on a limited income means _ that some of the so-called amenities of life must go. But her attitude is not a resigned one. She is not simply "putting up" with circumstance; she is adapting to it both skillfully and happily. True humility is not achieved by resentful acceptance. Remember the tactful but pointed comment of Alma (Alma 32) to the poor who had been denied entry to places of worship in The Book of Mormon. It is not our condition but our attitude that is crucial. Class Discussion At what point does service become servility? In 'Mother,' what really helps Margaret most in her re-understanding of her family? FROM THE JOURNAL OF JOHN WOOLMAN John Woolman's' Journal shares with Pilgrim's Progress the praise which is always due the simple account which never turns into the superficial. Woolman's humility is that of deliberately narrowed choice. His happiness is that which accompanies being in control of circumstances rather than being controlled by LESSON DEPARTMENT circumstance. Nothing is more impressive in Woolman's writing than his willingness to face the consequences of his choices. He doesn't pretend that making his wants few is necessarily easy; it is only "through the mercies of the Almighty" that he learns to be content with little. But once having learned this lesson, he can make his deliberate poverty rewarding. This modest Quaker was persuaded to publish his journal in the hope that it might inspire others to do good works. It is appropriate to conclude this lesson with the words of a man who so successfully avoided the ultimate test of humility—being proud of one's lack of pride. As someone has put it flippantly but truly, the hardest part of being humble is not to wear your humility pin! Woolman's Journal is saved from preachment, which is fatally easy to discount or ignore, by its focus on one man's experience. One can evaluate experience but not argue it. Woolman's final, tactful advice to those who are engaged in business and might be corrupted by it, is to remember not his own advice but that of the prophet Jeremiah. Few writers have been able to combine the forthright and the humble with the enduring success manifest in John Woolman's Journal. Class Discussion To what extent do you agree with Woolman that "every degree of luxury hath some connection with evil'? Note the context in which this is put, and his careful qualifications in the statement itself. 797 MOTHER-OF-PEARL Susan Diane Clement My mother means a loving smile Upon life's stormy sea; A gentle hand, a knowing heart, All these, and more, to me. She laughs with me and shares my joys, Shares all my sorrows, too; She gives me strength, and when | fall, She starts me out anew. She has borne her heavy load Long and valiantly— Without her life's companion, She has been father and mother to me. O Lord, wilt thou watch over her And give her strength the while Until the day she's called away, My mother and her smile. THE OPEN DOOR Verda F. Welch If God should close a door to thee, Another door will opened be. Our path is not illumined clear. Walk thou by faith, said he. I'll gently lead thee by the hand; I'll bless and comfort thee. The sorrow and the tears that flow; The trouble, and the loss Are part of life's refining fire To sift thee from the dross. The fire will but humble thee, And help thee see more clear The heavy load thy brother bears; His heartache, and his fear. In loving service thou shalt find New vistas, rich and rare; A recompense, a joy so sweet, And glory of heaven there. 798 SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOUR October 24 HAWAII October 11 HAWAII November 18 ROSE PARADE December 27 —- HAWAII January 1967 MEXICO February 1967 Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 BEAUTIFUL DURABLE 'es NEW ENGLAND-CANADIAN A sure way of keeping alive the valuable inzine is in a handsomely bound cover. The fating,, house is paanered to bind your editions into a durable volume. 1 i 4 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included ROSE PARADE TOUR below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Zone 1 and 2..... 55 Zone 6.......... 90. * 7 6 wey...1:05 EtciehoniEiayo Zone 4... 65 Zone 8..........1.20 Dec. 27—Jan. 3 Zone 5.......... 80 é James Travel Tours DESERET_[PEws PRESS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 SOUTH with AMERICA W. Cleon Skousen Feb. 7 Departure MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC. 14 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah PLEASE SEND ME FULL PARTICULARS ON THE FALL TOUR OF SOUTH AMERICA. Name...... MURDOCK ere TRAVEL City 799 HANDY struction of each month's Relief Society MagaMountain West's first and finest bindery and Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 600 Empire ees teenie el Utah 8410 Advance payment must accompany ail orders. Please include postage according to table fisted Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah SOUTHERN PARKS FALL TOUR September 3 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 15 to 30 Via San Francisco Dec. 27—Jan. 3 ROSE PARADE TOUR 97 Mrs. Leota Henderson Bigelow Oakland, California Mrs. Rhoda Ann McClellan Cardon El Paso, Texas 9 Mrs. Emily C. Zaugg Clearfield, Utah Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsey Bennion Salt Lake City, Utah 95 Mrs. Mary Rushforth Raymond Peart Mrs. Malinda Cook Briggs Syracuse, Utah Mrs. Amelia Heppler Hansen Richfield, Utah 94 Mrs. Josephine Brobert Monson uF Salt Lake City Utah Mrs. Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines Logan, Utah 93 Mrs. Laura Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Clara Maria Munk Anderson Manti, Utah 9? Mrs. Ada Carter Sutton Salt Lake City, Utah 800 Mrs. Myrtle May Tuttle Webster McMinnville, Oregon Mrs. Martha Coffin Torgeson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Amanda Johnson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sabina Chidester Yates Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Amanda Barron Norton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Emily Phillips Rolsson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Gealta Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Edith Oleson Schmidt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Maude Witt Heber City, Utah Mrs. Adria Brough Muir Randolph, Utah Mrs. Mary Malinda Thompson Spencer Provo, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Stalder Bengilli Logan, Utah Mrs. Vella Lambourne Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Nannie Tuck Hackworth St. Anthony, Idaho Mrs. Elnora Christina Ellertson Kay Mona, Utah 01 Sait ate city, uta Kaysville, Utah 9 99 FROM DESERET BOOK By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $ 2.95 Postpaid anywhere This new book, patterned after the successful first volume, is themed to "Love, Marriage, and the Family." The material will be used with the Cultural Refinement course. Full-color illustrations enhance the choice literature and discussion materials prepared by Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas. A wonderful and colorful way of brightening up your Spiritual Living lessons... Making them more meaningful and memorable. Includes copies of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, a chart showing the growth of the Church, reproductions of famous paintings, and colorful pictures depicting the work of the Church $1.25 Postpaid anywhere T Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD.. OGDEN 717 SO. MAIN ST.. ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 3% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. Total $ Name Address City &... State - Zip Send me [] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. I] [] PICTURE PACKET—SPIRITUAL LIV - OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! R. S. Oct. 1966 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Reflections on 79 years of producing Utah sugar... He making of Utah sugar was first people buying the sugar. From Octotried in 1850 when the early piober 15 to December 17 approximately neers purchased machinery in Eng- 1,250,000 pounds of sugar were proland. These determined men took duced. All of this sugar was sold in it by boat up the Mississippi River, Utah. In fact, the demand for the loaded the machinery into 52 oxproduct of this new "home industry" drawn wagons, and brought it to Utah. Was so strong that the factory could Efforts to produce sugar with this not fill all the orders. Today the equipment failed because they had U and I Sugar Company produces not obtained adequate technical approximately 600,463,000 pounds knowledge with the machinery. Each year of the finest, purest sugar However, when the first sugar was made and distributes it in many produced in Lehi, Utah, on October Western and Mid-western states. 15, 1891, there was almost a riot of SARY * Gey, a wivER EN x nae MD Ep. , /he lho Cold 7 wht Margery S. Stewart God, thou hast left The blue doors open. There are no bars Saying, thus far, no Farther. Stars Swing down to tantalize And bless. They cry, swing on us, Perchance reach him, Choose the perilous. The sun in the gold air Blazes the thin paths And draws us all day To be consumed by him. Fall the dear dross away. The light from the open Stairway searches our fires, To see if any be lighted By our love for him. If ever so small a one Be sighted, What a shout goes up! What a cry and bending Down of angels... Though They find Only one traveler weeping In the dusk, blind, Caught between flame and flame, Burned, thirsting, stricken, Hunted, but obdurate, still Reaching for him to quicken. The instant whisper comes From the highest sphere.... Climb, my son, continue,! Am here. The Cover: Sunset on the Mississippi River at Nauvoo, Illinois Transparency by Rowena J. Miller Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Mistaya Valley, Canadian Rockies Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: | Mary Scopes My dear friend Mrs. Marvin B. Greene of Phoenix, Arizona, has subscribed to -the Magazine for me for several years. Although she moved away from Knoxville many years ago, the Magazine, in its visits, is a. Constant reminder of our friendship across the miles. | enjoy the stories, the beautiful pictures, the deliciousrecipes, the lovely poems (which seem to just fit my needs), and the. Handwork. The. Magazine reminds me of the verse in the Bible: ''He hath made everything beautiful in his time." Mrs. John Flowers Knoxville, Tennessee | wish to thank Mary Scopes for illustrating my story "That Certain Sparkle' (April 1966) so beautifully. She certainly adds that final touch that a story needs. The April issue is just wonderful throughout. | am sending a copy to a friend in Germany who was a mission mother to my son. She has learned the English language the past two years, and writes to me faithfully. Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The Relief Society and the Magazine are both a tangible help in improving my marriage and in rearing four beautiful children—three boys and a girl my husband and | have been blessed with. Of particular interest to me are the thoughtful and well-written lessons in literature, and, of course, | especially like the poetry. Donna F. Swain St. Paul Park Minnesota The Relief Society Magazine was a gift from my mother-in-law five years ago, when | joined the Church. Since then, | have found helpful hints and beautiful stories and pictures to help in rearing my children, and in growing within myself.! Hope the day will come when | will be able to pour out the joy | have received to help others. Although my mother is not a member of the Church, she also enjoys receiving the Magazine. Marlene Spriggs Covina, California | enjoy the Magazine so much, especially since | am not able to get out to meetings. I enjoy the poems and stories and the gospel messages. To see the pictures of the Singing Mothers brings back memories. | cannot sing very well since my-accident, but | am happy that so' many can sing. It is a wonderful privilege to sing in the Tabernacle, and | appreciate the opportunity | had to sing there, and partake of the Spirit of the Lord: in that house. Thanks, also, for the recipes in the Magazine, and the sewing and handwork features. | loved all the decorative features in the December Magazine. All of the covers are lovely, too. Martha Steffensen Brokaw Preston, Idaho May | say how very grateful | am for The Relief Society Magazine, and for the beautiful poems. As a convert, and as a recent emigrant to Salt Lake City, Utah, from England, | am trying to build a new life. Having a little time to spare, and not having any ideas as how to spend it, | picked up the March Relief Society Magazine and came across the article ''This Day Is Mine," by Helen A. Nielsen. Thank you for showing me how to spend this day that is mine, and for being so very blessed. Joan E. Gifford Salt Lake City, Utah | returned recently from a visit to Utah, where | was visiting relatives who belong to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. | am a Baptist, but | have received The Relief Society Magazine for the past year and a half, and enjoy it very much. | went to a Relief Society work meeting with my niece and enjoyed every minute. | think all the women are wonderful, and I have never seen more friendly people. | have visited Utah six times, and | love it there. Mrs. Martha Woods St. Louis, Missouri | enjoyed the May frontispiece poem "Place of Prayer," by Marilyn McMeen Miller. It is interesting to see new talent and different types of poetry. Lois S. Clayton Englewood, Colorado Thea Relief Society Om ee Volume 53 November 1966 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager. Belle S. Spafford Special Features | 804 Woman Ennobled Belle S. Spafford 811 814 "None Other Name" Marianne C. Sharp "Every Wise Woman" Louise W. Madsen 816 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 836 Home for Thanksgiving Mabel Harmer 844 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 5 Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 802 From Near and Far 824 Editorial: "I Am the Light of the World" Louise W. Madsen 826 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 851 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities s 880 Birthday Congratulations: The Home - Inside and Out 829 Make Christmas Cookies Early Alice P. Willardson 832 Comfort Your Baby Shirley Thulin 834 Recipe fora Happier You Jean Smith 843 Myrtle John Portrays the Beauties of Nature in Handicraft Designs Lesson Department 858 Spiritual Living—A Divine Document Prepares the Way for the Restoration of the Gospel Roy W. Doxey 864 Visiting Teacher Message "Let Your Hearts Be Comforted..." Alice Colton Smith 865 Homemaking—Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement Celestia J. Taylor 868 Social Relations—Heirs to the Kingdom Alberta H. Christensen 873 Cultural Refinement—"Time for Courtesy" Bruce B. Clark Poetry 801 The Thin Gold Paths Margery S. Stewart By Faith Alone, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 810; First Things First, Christie Lund Coles, 822; Children Go Leaping, Lael W. Hill, 822; Coyote, Peggy Tangren, 823; Shining Aftermath, Kathryn Kay, 827; Where Is the Child? Annie Atkin Tanner, 828; Four A. M. Siren, Dorothy J. Roberts, 831; Going Somewhere, Linda L. Clarke, 831; Flowers for Winter, Fay Ottesen, 835; To Walk Alone, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 850; Sea Etching, Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn, 867; Resolution, Estella S. Johnson. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts wit! Be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.. President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] In March 1840, Elder Parley P. Pratt, exuberant with joy and gratitude over the truths revealed anew through the restored gospel, released his feelings in poetic words which were published on the first page of the initial number of the Millennial Star, and later set to music. As we, too, have rejoiced in the knowledge and_ the _ blessings which have come to us through modern revelation, we have sung the words penned by Elder Pratt with depth of feeling: The morning breaks, the shadows flee, Lo, Zion's standard is unfurled. The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. Truly women should rejoice in the brighter day which dawned for womankind with the restoration. As the rays of the gospel shed their light upon the earth, the lofty position accorded woman in the gospel plan and the importance of her divinely ordained earthly mission were made clearly visible, and new vistas for development and purposeful living, under the guidance of the Priesthood, were opened to her view. In the early part of the nineteenth century, there appears to have been little consideration given to the divine nature and destiny of woman, and life for her encompassed but few of the opportunities and advantages contemplated in the gospel plan. Let us briefly review her position and circumstances. True, it is hard to arrive at a precisely clear picture which might be applied to every woman of that day. The differing economic and social circumstances, the varied conditions and cultures of her area of residence, the western movement. In America which demanded unusual adaptations in order to meet the requirements of survival—all had bearing on the life of a woman. This we know, however, her world was in large measure her home, her Church, and her neighborhood. Life for the average woman was hard, and many shackles bound her in the development of her talents and in the exercise of her abilities, as well as in the exercise of her God-ordained free agency. There were rigid barriers of law against property holding and guardianship of children. Most industries refused to employ her and those which did offered her only routine labor with long hours and low pay. The taboos of society on education and public expression, along with the prevalent superstition which held, "the weak, feminine brain, incapable of serious thinking..." shackled her personal development. The advantages of education were extremely limited. Colleges of higher learning did not admit her. True, women had served as teachers of a sort, but they were primary teachers instructing only in the three "Rs." They received miserable pay, usually living in the home of a WOMAN ENNOBLED student with board and room as the teaching wage. When education ventured beyond the primary level, it was for the benefit of the male, and teaching became work for the schoolmaster, not the schoolmistress. In the field of religion she had the privilege of organizing ladies aid societies, though after a timid and limited fashion. Most churches seem to have maintained their female society, with the women being allowed to decorate and tend the altars, meet for. Prayer and religious discussion, sew for the church, and administer to the poor through the earnings acquired through the sale of their own products. They were forbidden, however, to have vote in the affairs of the church. The political privileges of women were nil. There had been sporadic women's clubs of a sort —neighbors meeting together for sociability and the exercise of their minds—with some groups working in a haphazard fashion for the public good. These clubs were poorly organized, however, and affairs were largely controlled by husbands of the members. In 1833, a few bold women formed the first woman's club with a political purpose—the Philadelphia Female Anti-Slavery Society. The furor which this aroused is described in the book, Angels and Amazons, issued by the National Council of Women of the United States in 1935. It states that the woman who identified herself with this group was regarded as bold and unwise indeed, for a respectable woman did not speak in public, nor did she organize in behalf of any political cause. At the first con- NOVEMBER 1966 vention held by this gropp, a mob roared outside the meeting place, and following the meeting, the building was burned. With such conditions for woman extant, came the light of the gospel, dispelling darkness, injustice, and bigotry, and glorifying woman as a beloved daughter of our Heavenly Father with a divinely ordained mission in earth life. It illumined the paths that led to the development of her divine mission. It opened for her endless doors of opportunity. The doctrines and teachings of the restored Church were explicit with regard to woman and removed for all time the age-old "controversy of woman's rights versus man's rights. The late Dr. John A. Widtsoe, in an article published in The Relief Society Magazine, clearly sets forth some of these doctrines and teachings as follows:... She (woman) bears joint responsibility with man in establishing the kingdom of God... Full equality has been provided in the Church between man and woman. They are equal in opportunity, privilege, and_ rights. They have a common destiny, which as free agents they may attain or lose through their own actions.. It [the Church] has given her full rights of suffrage and property ownership. It recognizes her equal mental powers with those of man and the right to use her inborn talents to the This equality does not ignore the natural differences between man and woman. Woman is the child-bearer and child-rearer.... Man is provider of the necessities and comforts of the family. This does not reduce woman to a dependent.... It [family life] is... A cooperative enterprise based upon a divinely ordained division of labor for forming, maintaining, and protecting the unit of society known as the family.... The family must have organization. The man... Is by divine decree the head or presiding officer.... To him is committed the Priesthood... But the benefits and blessings of the Priesthood thus conferred are shared by the wife and, as needed, by every member of the family.... The highest blessings [available in the temple] are only conferred upon a man and woman... Jointly. Neither can receive them alone. If she [woman] accepts gladly the glorious gift of motherhood, she may use whatever time and strength remain in the exercise of her talents.... The privilege of self-expression belongs to her.... She may enter industry, education, the professions — every worthwhile pursuit with the good will of all. Dr. Widtsoe continues, "Divinely commissioned, in her keeping are the choice spirits who have come to earth to win an earthly body.... In her hands lies the future of the race" (Relief Society Magazine, June-July, 1943, pp. 372-375). This was new doctrine, greatly at variance with prevailing beliefs in the early part of the nineteenth century. In 1830 when the Church was organized, there came a startling innovation for woman when she was granted by the Church the religious vote. Through revelation, the Lord directed the Prophet, Oliver Cowdery, and John Whitmer: "And all things shall be done by common consent in the church..." (D&C 26:2). We remind ourselves that, in 1830, no woman and few men voted in any church body, and no woman had political franchise. In 1842, the work of the women in building the kingdom having been accepted of the Lord as testified by the Prophet when he said, "your offerings are accepted of the Lord," the women were given by the Lord through the Prophet an organization established according to the laws of heaven—The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, now known as the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. This organization was the medium through which women might express themselves, find opportunity for personal development and service, and more effectively do the women's part in building the kingdom. At an early meeting of the Society in Nauvoo, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared: I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads (DHC IV, page 607). According to Elder Bruce R. McConkie in an article published in the Relief Society Magazine: By turning the key [in behalf of women] the Prophet delegated to the duly appointed officers of the new organization a portion of the keys of the kingdom. Under the Priesthood they were now authorized to direct, control, and govern the affairs of the society... Under this appointment their lawful acts would be recognized by the Lord and he would work with them in the rolling forth of the kingdom in the sphere assigned to them (Relief Society Magazine, March, 1950, page 151). The significant statement by the Prophet with regard to turning the key in behalf of women is the foundation upon which an extensive educational program WOMAN ENNOBLED for women has been established and carried forward by Relief Society. The program includes, as expressed by President Lorenzo Snow, "a study of those subjects which tend toward the elevation and advancement of women along all lines of thought and action." This statement is also the basis for the Society's benevolent activities. That our pioneer women caught the vision and the implications of all the privileges outlined for woman in the gospel plan is abundantly evident. That they sensed their responsibility to disseminate these truths is also apparent. Their pioneer publication bore the title, Woman's Exponent — exponent meaning expounder, interpreter, champion, representative. On the front page of the publication, directly under the name, was the caption, "The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." The organization of Relief Society with the significant pronouncement of turning the key in behalf of woman preceded, by six years, the first public declaration made by women demanding equal social, industrial, educational, and political rights—a declaration issued at the Seneca Falls Convention called by a small but determined body of women known as the National. Woman's Suffrage Association. This declaration is generally regarded in the United States as the beginning of the so-called woman's movement—a movement that has gained momentum with each passing year until, today, women may be found in almost every field of human endeavor, and in most nations they 807 NOVEMBER 1966 are a power to be recggnized in national life. In the struggle of woman for emancipation, woman suffrage and the right to hold public office have been prime goals. Utah women were early granted suffrage. Even in the territorial days they enjoyed the elective franchise. They played a conspicuous part in the national woman's suffrage movement in the United States which culminated in the adoption of the nineteenth amendment to the Constitution in 1920, granting women of this nation full suffrage. The struggle for suffrage still goes on in a number of countries; a few have recently won these rights. In May of this year, Sister Florence Jacobsen, President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and I attended a conference of the International Council of Women as voting delegates from the National Council of Women of the United States. The conference was held in Teheran, Iran, at the invitation of the Princess Ashraf, twin sister of the Shah and President of the High Council of Women of Iran. The conference was held in Iran in recognition of Iranian women having been granted suffrage in 1963. It was in 1936 that these women were unveiled. We were given to understand that the Shah regards the liberation of women as one of his major programs designed to advance and modernize this ancient nation and to promote the well-being of its people. An interesting experience was mine during this conference. An Iranian woman who was a member of the Parliament of that country sought me out. She told me of her long, arduous efforts in behalf of liberation for the Iranian women. She explained that, in the beginning, she had little knowledge of how to proceed in working toward suffrage, so she made extensive studies of the movement in other countries. In so doing, she learned of the leadership Utah women had given to this cause. She had written a book, she said, in which she made reference to their work. Then handing me her card, she invited me to correspond with her "for," said she, "women who were so forward looking in gaining suffrage as were Utah women must have something to offer by way of its proper use. Liberation calls for responsible action." How right she is! It is not easy properly to use freedom. Righteous principles and sound guidelines must be followed. While her emancipation has brought to woman endless opportunities and advantages, it has not left her devoid of problems. In her zeal for expression and freedom, we find her all too often developing attitudes, expressing opinions, engaging in activities and seeking goals that are not in the interest of her ultimate best good nor in harmony with her feminine nature or her earthly mission. Rather than striving for the realization of her full potential as a woman, we see her all too often in competition with man, aping his behavior, his habits, even his dress and general appearance. We see her somewhat insensitive to her primary role as his companion and helpmeet, the guardian of his home, the guide and protector of the spirits entrusted to the home. We see her inclined to disregard his role as head of the household in righteousness. The demands of modern life entice, if not force, many women to engage in activities outside their homes, particularly activities of the labor market. To engage capably in these activities and at the same time competently meet the requirements of the home and family and to maintain a poised balance in dealing with the responsibilities of life, test the greatest powers of judgment and organizational ability, home management, and physical, spiritual, and mental strength. These women must continually ask themselves which of all our multitudinous responsibilities have first claim upon us? An article in a national magazine recently reminded women that human beings have remained human because there were women whose duty it was to provide continuity in their lives—to be there when they went to sleep and when they woke up, to ease pain, to sympathize with failure and rejoice in success, to listen to tales of broken hearts, to soothe and support and sustain and stimulate husbands and sons as they faced the vicissitudes of a hard outside world. Throughout history, the article says, children have needed mothers, men have needed wives, the young, the sick, the old, the unhappy, the triumphantly victorious, have needed special individuals to share with them and care for them. They have needed women who see this as their primary work. It is troublesome to note that, at times, attributes, opinions, and actions of women today are WOMAN ENNOBLED inconsistent or at variance with their earnestly desired and worthy goals. For example, at the Iranian conference, speakers spoke feelingly of the need to build a stronger, more useful, and happier society. In order to accomplish this, they advocated more intensified effort toward community development which would allow better opportunities for women and children, who, in turn, would be able to make more significant contributions to a good society. At the same time, they advocated programs for community development that would take women more and more into community life and more and more away from their homes and their children, thus weakening the basic foundation of a good society and of useful, happy citizenship. Also, may we not question opinions such as this, expressed by a conference delegate, '"Women must learn to regard the period of child bearing and child rearing as temporary retirement from life'? I suggest that the time has come when woman might with profit evaluate the direction emancipation is taking her, assess the values which motivate her views and actions, and endeavor. More earnestly to seek out truth as it relates to the proper uses of her God-given freedom. To stem the tide of error, to alter confused thinking and modify improper action on the part of women will require strong and intelligent leadership. Upon whom rests the burden of this responsibility? Certainly upon those to whom the Lord has revealed his plan and purposes for 809 NOVEMBER 1966 womankind. In my opinion, it rests upon the shoulders of Latter-day Saint women. _ Can Latter-day Saint women meet this responsibility? Of course they can! They have the truth, the daily guidance of the prophets, the Relief Society as the medium through which to work. They may do it by the example of their lives, by refusing to succumb to the pressures and fashions of the day. They may do it by their teachings. It is not usually necessary nor advisable to crash head-on with opposing forces, but by clear and measured thinking, by courageous and patient teaching, by example and persuasion, they may point the way. Sister Jacobsen did this with marked influence at the Iranian conference in the section on Youth and Family Life. Also, BY FAITH ALONE Eva Willes Wangsgaard The small, undoubting swallows make A pilgrimage | cannot take. Though | should find a spot and lie Upon the grass, beneath the sky, Where once | lay to think things through, The grass, as green, the sky as blue; Too many blundering winds have blown Away my sky. This grass has known Too many warring suns and. Shades, Too many browned and withered blades, To be the same in root or spear.. Mine not the same heart, eye, nor ear: How well | learned no woman follows The pure philosophy of swallows! I saw action swayed by positions which I took in harmony with Church teachings, in the section on Moral and Social Welfare. I have seen sisters in the stakes and missions of the Church influence actions aright because of the strength of their testimonies and their sensitiveness to their many responsbilities as Latterday Saint women. The world is full of good women seeking the right way, ready to accept truth when it is presented to them with clarity and conviction, devoid of criticism, and when one's own actions give credence to her words. May the Lord give to the women of the Church today the vision to see themselves as the woman's exponent, dedicated to the use of her freedoms according to divine mandate. "aa - r Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the a " w At a quarterly conference last summer, I was very much impressed with a statement made by a mission president. He said that three-quarters of the converts made in his 'mission said that they knew the gospel was true the first time they heard it. Many thoughts have gone through my mind as I have pondered this. I thought of the testimonies possessed by the missionaries and their words of truth which had pierced the hearts of strangers, united with the light of Christ given to every man, and, by a means of which we know nothing, formed a testimony. This had great meaning to me in this day when men declare that God is dead. I thought of the words "Where much is given, much is expected." I thought of words spoken to Relief Society members by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842, "After this instruction, you will be responsible for your own sins." I thought of the weight of responsibility on Relief Society members to be a force in testifying of their knowledge that God lives and that Jesus is the Christ. I feel that each of us, as a Relief Society member, needs to search her own heart to ascertain al] NOVEMBER 1966 just how strong is hey testimony, then to pray, study, and perform works which will steadily strengthen it. Some who are converts know how they struggled and sacrificed to obtain a testimony. Others who are born in the Church know what they had to do for their testimony, and still others seem to have brought their testimonies with them from. The premortal life. We do not know entirely why it is easier for some to obtain a testimony than others—that knowledge belongs to the Lord—but we do know that with our free agency, it is the responsibility. Of every Relief Society member to save herself, as the Prophet said, and each one of us must gain and keep strong her testimony of the gospel if she would be exalted. Of what does this testimony consist? A knowledge that God is our Father and that Jesus Christ, his Son in the spirit world as well as in this world, is the Christ, our Redeemer, our Advocate with the Father. The testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel is an. Adjunct to this knowledge. With every fiber of our beings, we need to know the truth of the words of the Savior, "I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me" (John 14:6). You hear some women say, "Oh, I wish I had lived in the days of the Savior. If I had seen him and the miracles he performed, it would be easy to believe in him." Sister Spafford had an important assignment last spring which took her around the world. She made a very significant state- 812 ment in reporting her experiences when she said, "There are miracles today and the greatest miracle is how the gospel changes people." A woman living today can witness and experience the same miracle she would have experienced when the Savior was on earth—the miracle of changing her own soul through filling it with the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ. Nor is this knowledge a static thing. It grows or it withers. Time permits the mention of only a few attributes which we, as Latter-day Saint women, must cultivate if we would have our testimonies grow and increase. These attributes, among others, are delineated for us by the Savior in the scriptures. Modern day prophets constantly exhort us to live them today. The Latter-day Saint woman will cultivate faith such as the Greek woman had when Jesus promised her, "O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt" (Matt. 15:28). The Latter-day Saint woman will sacrifice, as Jesus admonished, "No man having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God" (Luke 9:62). The Latter-day Saint woman will recognize true greatness. "Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven" (Matt. 18:4). The Latter-day Saint woman will be humble in the estimation of her own knowledge at this time when men exalt themselves and say God is dead. In her humility she recalls the question of the Lord to Job, 'Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?" (Job 38:2). The Latter-day Saint woman will seek cultural refinement, seek to bring into her life a heightened appreciation for the beauties of creation and her own responsibility to create beauty around her. "Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates" (Proverbs 31:31).. The Latter-day Saint woman will possess love. "He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love" (I John 4:8). The Latter-day Saint woman will study the life of the Savior. In seeking to enlarge her love for him, she reads, "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14:15). "Keep my commandments," only three words but. How difficult to obey. How hard, at times, to exercise love in one's relations with others, how hard to be patient, to be understanding, and obedient. How easy to have one's feelings hurt, to feel unappreciated, to feel unjustly treated. Sorrow, pain, suffering come. The rock on which each Latterday Saint woman must stand to overcome the cares of the world is the strength of her own testimony. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life' (John 3:16). Jesus Christ so loved us that he took upon himself the sins of the world and, in agony, called upon his Father in Gethsemane, -in the words of President Clark, "NONE OTHER NAME" "for aid to the fulfilling of his mission—the making of the great atonement for Adam's fall" (On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, page 21), "and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground" (Luke 22:44). No wonder that we may only prevail as we love and worship Jesus Christ as the Son of God and our Savior, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved" (Acts 4:12). I feel to search my soul to find out how much I love the Savior; how much obedience to his commandments rules my thoughts and actions, how far I am from living the two great commandments. I acknowledge the power which Relief Society has had in my life to help me increase my talents, my knowledge, and my testimony. I know that our Heavenly Father is a loving, merciful Father who loves each one of us, for he is no respecter of persons. I know that Jesus Christ is his Son, and our Redeemer and Savior. I know that the gospel was restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that President McKay is the Prophet of the Lord today. I thank the Lord for my testimony—the most precious gift he has given me here upon the earth. May we all—Latter-day Saint women—search our own souls and strive unceasingly to increase our testimonies—the wellsprings of our lives, I pray. 813 Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] B14 @ "Every wise woman buildeth her house" (Proverbs 14:1). Whether that house is a stately mansion or a hovel depends on her who builds it. If the foundation is firm, the walls strong, the roof tight against the elements, the windows shining, and the doors solid to withstand evil from without, she builds well. Faith, the first principle of the gospel, is the foundation of the house a wise woman builds for her soul. According to the scriptures, faith is implicit confidence and full trust in God, his being, his purposes, his words, and commandments. With such faith all doubt is removed, supplanted by complete assurance and knowledge of the way one's life should be directed. Faith is a gift of God, given to those who are prepared to receive it. It is so precious a gift that it is not bestowed just_for the asking, nor given to those who have not sought it. The Savior's question to Peter, "Whom say ye that I am?" was answered "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God" (Matt. 16:15- 16). "And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven" (Matt. 16:17). Elder James E. Talmage states (Articles of Faith, page 99): Peter's faith had already shown its vitalizing power; it had caused him to forsake much that had been dear, to follow his Lord through persecution and suffering, and to put away worldliness with its fascinations for the sacrificing godliness which his faith made so desirable. This cumulative evidence of Peter's worthiness made possible the gift of faith. That faith is greater than _ knowledge is attested by the fact that as Jesus went about he was frequently accosted by those possessed of evil spirits who "when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God" (Mark 3:11). Satan himself knows, yet with his knowledge he is Satan still. His knowledge has not impelled him to be righteous, to obey the Lord's commandments, to forsake evil. Faith is an impelling force which leads to action. This motivating power makes faith greater than knowledge or belief which are passive. How greatly we need protection from the evils of our day! Faith protects. Alma taught, "Now ye see that this is the true faith of God; yea, ye see that God will support, and keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful unto him, and unto our faith, and our religion; and never will the Lord suffer that we shall be destroyed except we should fall into transgression and deny our faith" (Alma 44:4). Faith is a power in prayer. The angel of the Lord who appeared to Alma and the sons of Mosiah to effect their miraculous conversion told them that the Lord had heard the prayers of his people and of the elder Alma because they had prayed with much faith. "For this purpose have I come to convince thee of the power and authority of God, that the prayers of his servants might be answered according to their faith" (Mosiah 27:14). Faith is a power in righteous living, an "anchor to the souls of men, which would make EVERY WISE WOMAN them sure and steadfast, always abounding in good works, being led to glorify God' (Ether 12: 4). Those who do not have faith feel little obligation to obey and live righteously. Why do we speak of faith? Why do we urge the sisters to acquire greater faith? Why do we endeavor to teach them the meaning of faith and the necessity of building the inner resources which guide their lives? Because we are concerned that every woman shall attain exaltation. Because we in Relief Society are charged with the responsibility of teaching, exhorting, persuading and leading the sisters with loving compassion. Because Relief Society is to save souls, and perfect faith in the Holy One is necessary for salvation in the kingdom of God. Relief Society numbers thousands and thousands of women. Its greatness lies in its influence on each individual woman. "No man is wise enough by himself," we are told (Plautus). No woman has such great wisdom that she cannot profit from the help of others in strengthening her faith. "Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands" (Proverbs 14:1). Every foolish or sinful act, every lost opportunity to serve, every weakening to temptation, every acceptance of evil is as though the foolish woman willfully weakens the foundation of her house, removes bricks from the walls, neglects leaks in the roof, blurs the shining windows, and opens the door for evil to enter in. The house she builds in which her soul will dwell is beautiful, firm and strong, or not, according to her faith and works. 815 Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, g@ As most of you know, a regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference is a brief report of the status of the organization taken from the most recent annual report, together with a few official instructions, recommendations, and perhaps a few cautions with regard to the conduct of Relief Society work. SECRETARY-TREASURERS—NEW REPORT FORMS The secretary-treasurers deserve commendation for the excellence of the 1965 reports. They contain a vast amount of factual information; they reflect a clear understanding on the part of secretaries of how properly to record activities. They were neatly and accurately prepared. 816 September 28, 1966] New record books will go into effect September 1, 1967, and will cover the period September 1, 1967, through August 31, 1968, inasmuch as September through August will then be regarded as the Relief Society year. There will be minor changes in the new forms which will be explained in the secretary-treasurers department of this conference. Presidents are urged to acquaint themselves with these changes through their secretary-treasurers. LEADERSHIP AND GENERAL ORGANIZATION STRENGTH Capable leadership is_ being given to the program of Relief Society by Relief Society presidents and other officers and class leaders in the stakes and wards, missions and branches of the Church. One hundred ninety thousand women hold leadership positions. Growth of the society in size and accomplishment is encouraging. Adherence to General Board regulations, high standards of performance, devoted service are the general characteristics of Relief Societies throughout the Church. As General Board members have traveled to stake quarterly conferences, opportunity has been afforded them, in some instances, to meet with mission Relief Society leaders. Achievements in the missions are heartening, acording to reports. MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Church-wide Relief Society membership at the close of 1965 was 286,820 — an increase of 12,000 over 1964. Average attendance at the regular Relief Society meetings was 108,195 — an increase over the previous year of more than 4,500 women. Reports indicate there are 6,662 stake, mission, district, ward, and branch Relief Society organizations located in 53 countries throughout the world. This is an increase of 131 organizations. RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAM The program of Relief Society which is affecting the lives of nearly 300,000 women is directed toward helping women to gain an understanding of the doctrines and principles of the gospel and to develop testimonies sufficiently strong so as to bring their daily conduct into harmony with Church teachings. The program aims to awaken Relief Society members to their responsibilities in caring for the sick, the aged, the homebound, and in ministering, as needed, to the bereaved, REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS the downtrodden, and disconsolate. It provides opportunity for women to develop their talents and enlarge upon their native endowments, and helps them to realize their full potential as women. It holds ever before them their divine mission as wives, mothers, and homemakers. Such a comprehensive program should enlist the active participation in Relief Society of every Latter-day Saint woman. None should feel justified in not holding membership in Relief Society regardless of what other responsibilities she may carry in the Church. COMPASSIONATE AND CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES The spirit of the gospel is a spirit of selfless service, and this is exemplified in the compassionate service program. Reports bear record that Relief Society sisters gave over 29,000 eight-hour days bedside nursing care to the sick during 1965. There were approximately 400,000 visits to the sick and homebound, and approximately 700,000 hours of other types of compassionate service. Over 800 bodies were dressed for burial and assistance was given at more than 10,000 funerals. In reference to the care of the sick, it seems appropriate to remind you that as the life span is lengthened, disabling, but not necessarily terminal diseases, often attack older people. They seem to become prime targets for such cripplers as_ stroke, heart disease, cancer, emphysema, and arthritis. Many of them become accident prone and are victims of broken hips and other broken bones. Accidents, particularly highway accidents, 817 NOVEMBER 1966 add to the list of the chronically disabled. Nursing care for such people is posing one of the serious health-care problems of our day. While hospitals provide primary care, long days of caring for the patient in the home setting must usually be faced. Families are often strained to the breaking point. In view of this, it seems appropriate to suggest that classes in home nursing be conducted by Relief Societies where 'such programs are feasible and where home nursing courses are available. We also urge Relief Society presidents to become knowledgeable regarding available nurse training programs for both practical and registered nurses. Our own Brigham Young University offers a four-year baccalaureate course and a two-year associate degree course. Where you know of a woman with nursing aptitude who may be in a position to avail herself of nurse training, encourage her to do so. Relief Society sisters continue their services to the Church Welfare program, as directed by their respective bishops. There were 110,000. Family visits made during 1965 with 87,000 other contacts with families receiving assistance. There were 55,000 Relief Society members who assisted on Welfare projects and approximately 750,- 000 hours were contributed by women to these projects. COURSES OF STUDY Courses of study taught by 24,- 000 class leaders deal with subjects that truly tend toward the elevation and advancement of women, and direct their thinking, mold their attitudes, and influence their actions along Churchapproved lines. In harmony with the correlation program, the lessons for the coming year are being prepared so they may be presented in such a way that every sister at Relief Society will become involved in the discussions. The titles of the courses beginning in October 1966, reflect the concept of involvement. Theology is now designated Spiritual Living; Work meeting— Homemaking; Social Science — Social Relations; Literature, which will include some music and art, has taken on a new depth and will become Cultural Refinement. The General Board feels that there is being offered to Relief Society members through the Priesthood - coordinated courses of study an unusually valuable educational program. For the past two years special lessons prepared for Relief Societies requiring simplified _ courses of study, and originally issued as "Lessons for Indian Relief Societies," have been issued by the General Board. Volume 3 is now available through the General Board, office, price $2 postpaid. These lessons are a continuation of the courses of study contained in Volume 2 as follows: Lessons From The Book of Mormon; Latter-day Saint Church History; Gems of Truth From The Book of Mormon; Development Through Homemaking Education; Teaching the Gospel in the Home (three lessons); and On Earth and In Heaven (five lessons). Volume 1 "Lessons for Indian Relief Societies" ($1.25) and Volume 2 "Special Lessons for Relief Society" ($1.75) continue to be available. HOMEMAKING PROGRAM The homemaking program is one of Relief Society's attractive programs with the homemaking meeting continuing as the second best attended. Meeting. Last year there were 1,300,000 articles completed during this meeting. Of this number, nearly 800,000 were sewed articles with 175,000 being wearing apparel for men, women, and children. This is an excellent record of practical accomplishment. We caution you to hold the homemaking discussions within the recommended time. The homemaking meeting must allow time for the women to actively engage in learning homemaking skills and to see demonstrations of homemaking activities. It is also felt that effort must be made to preserve the informal social atmosphere of the day. Relative to the homemaking program, we call to your attention the following statement from the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions, page 97: The service of a professional person from outside the Society is sometimes enlisted by Relief Society officers in furthering certain aspects of the work meeting program. Professional help is valuable in training the women in some special homemaking activities; however, such professional persons should not independently plan the.... Meeting activities nor should they use the meeting to promote their own homemaking programs in substitution for programs planned by Relief Society officers assigned this responsibility. Professional persons from outside the organization who assist in the homemaking program should not be authorized to call meetings in the name of the Society nor to initiate or conduct REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS projects or programs involving Relief Society. Such matters are the jurisdiction of the Relief Society president. Relief Society is so organized that~ authoritative procedures must be respected. Responsibility for safeguarding the time, talent, and energies of Relief Society members, as such, rests with the Relief Society president and should not be relinquished to others regardless of their competency or professional standing. RELIEF SOCIETY PUBLICATIONS 1. Relief Society Magazine The Relief Society Magazine (English edition) which, at the end of 1965, had a paid circulation of 241,276—an increase of 9,345—is an important asset to our educational program, making available to the general membership the basic lesson material, thus promoting involvement of the members in class discussions. This, of course, is only one of the many educational values of the publication. 2. Magazine in Spanish We are delighted with the response of the Spanish-speaking sisters to the Magazine in the Spanish language. We are advised that the Spanish-speaking group of sisters is second in number to the English-speaking group. The first edition of the Spanish Magazine came from the press in June of this year. 3. Magazine Honor Roll A change is being made in the annual Magazine subscription report which is to be submitted at the end of the year. This year (1966) stake Magazine representatives will not be required to submit a report of the number of members enrolled and the num- 819 NOVEMBER 1966 ber of subscriptions obtained during the year in the respective wards of their stake. Following November 15, a report will be sent by the General Board office to each stake Relief Society president for distribution to the stake Magazine representative, listing the number of members enrolled January 1, 1966 in each of the wards of the stake as indicated on the organization's annual report, together with a list of the subscription orders that have been received in the General Board office during the year and the number of subscriptions listed on each order. Stake Magazine representatives will be requested to check the report with the ward representatives and to report any discrepancies to the General Board office. They will also be requested to send a list of the names and addresses of the ward representatives. It will be necessary for this information to reach the General Board office not later than January 10. A delay may make it necessary to eliminate the stake from the Honor Roll. Upon receipt of this information, any necessary changes in either the number of members enrolled or the number of subscriptions will be made in the records at the General Board Magazine department and the percentages will be computed there and the Honor Roll compiled. Further details will accompany the report forms that will be sent to you. We feel this procedure will result in more accurate percentages and save the time of stake Magazine representatives. It will eliminate a great deal of correspondence that has been necessary in the Magazine de- 820 partment in the past concerning errors in the reports submitted to the General Board office. 4. History of Relief Society to be issued. We are pleased to announce that it is anticipated that a pictorial history of Relief Society covering the period 1842-1966 will be ready for distribution before the end of the year. It will contain a running history of the Society similar to that contained in the Centenary of Relief Society, together with sections giving more detailed information relative to the various programs and activities engaged in by Relief Society in the 124 years of its life. You will be advised later as to the exact date of the availability of the history, the price, and how and where to obtain it. FINANCIAL STATUS OF RELIEF SOCIETIES Reports indicate that Relief Societies, with rare exceptions, are in good financial condition. We especially commend the stake boards for their resourcefulness in maintaining themselves financially since garment earnings no longer accrue to Relief Society. It has been excellent training for the sisters and a source of great satisfaction to them through the years to. Have been able independently to finance their respective Relief Societies, thus justifying the confidence placed in them by the First Presidency in ruling that they do not go on Church budgets. VISITING TEACHING A vast corps of more than 125,000 visiting teachers continue the devoted service started in Nauvoo of visiting Latter-day Saint families "to search out the poor and suffering." Visiting teachers also convey a spiritual message based on_ scriptural truths. In excess of 4,500,000 visits were made during 1965— a marvelous record. We call attention to the importance of the oral reports being given in the visiting teacher meeting. We understand that in some instances presidents have discontinued oral reports, feeling that the present emphasis being placed on the confidential reports eliminated a need for the oral reports. Confidential reports in no way reduce the need for the oral reports. SINGING MOTHERS Singing Mothers choruses increased during 1965 by 112, making a total of 3,225 with over 44,000 sisters participating. The singing at quarterly conferences has been good, according to reports of General Board members. A number of special invitations to sing at important national events have been extended to certain stakes. We caution conductors, however, to use judgment in the number, and timing of rehearsals. Frequent and poorly timed rehearsals which work a hardship upon chorus members or which take them away from regularly scheduled Relief Society or Church activities could destroy the spirit and interfere with the ultimate success of the program. MERCHANDISING OPERATIONS DISAPPROVED We call your attention to an item in the Priesthood Bulletin of May-June, 1966, as follows: Stakes, wards, priesthood quorums or other Church units or organizations REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS are not to engage, as such, in merchandising operations for private gain of individuals. Neither are they to circularize the Church or large parts of it in an attempt to augment building or other funds through the sale of pamphlets, articles of merchandise, pictures of historic monuments or events, and the like. Units of the Church are requested not to solicit funds in other Church units outside of their own jurisdiction. AFFILIATIONS A number of requests have been received by the General Board for guidance as to whether Relief Society should affiliate as enrolled members with community organizations. The General Board does not endorse such affiliations. The General Board of Relief Society, which is the governing body of Relief Society internationally, holds membership in the National Council of Women of the United States. By virtue of this membership, it is an affiliate of the Intemational Council of Women, and is usually represented at conferences of the International Council of Women. The General Board regularly sends a representative to the United States Council of Women conferences. In this way, Relief Society makes its contribution to the thinking and action of organized women of the free world. In turn, there is disseminated through the General Board such viewpoints and information from the councils as would be of value to the stake and mission Relief Societies. The General Board feels that Relief Society officers do not have the right to involve Relief Society members, as such, either directly or indirectly, in the work of other organizations through affiliation with such organiza- 821 NOVEMBER 1966 tions. What the sisters do as individuals, of course, is their own responsibility. Relief Society officers may call upon the time and talents of Relief Society women for the work of Relief Society since the sisters have voluntarily joined Relief Society and must expect to make their contribution to it; but we do not feel that officers are justified in diverting the time and talents of Relief Society members to the service of other organizations. THE SECOND MILE Sisters, in your love for one another, in your love for the Church, and in your love for those who need you, be unafraid to go the second mile; but measure your labors according to your strengths and your resources. Do not let your enthusiasm outrun your judgment. Let responsibilities be shared by all, and let your labors be confined to the sphere assigned to Relief Society as an auxiliary of the Church. 822 FIRST THINGS FIRST Christie Lund Coles The party indeed has been lovely: The music, the program, the friends; Your garden is truly enchanting... Just see how that willow tree bends. | do dislike having to leave you, But must rush to another affair: A small girl's birthday party, Incomplete without Grandma there. CHILDREN GO LEAPING Lael W. Hill Children go leaping through piled-up places: Summer-hot hay takes the bare browned feet And cows turn inscrutable, soft-eyed faces Toward the young shouts that repeat... Repeat.... Children leap into the madcap weather October-blown crimson and whisper brown Where pocket-cheeked squirrels chatter together And leaves are raked up to be reveled down. Youngsters plump-bundied in winter's wrappings Hurl themselves into drifthills of snow, And sparrows startle from twig-thin nappings Away from the mitten-flung white below.... Warm days again—and the chiidren go leaping Through piled-up hours of sun grown bright. Through hitlocks of clover, and blue air, keeping Laughter quick-winging and blossom light. COYOTE — Peggy Tangren A cry— A wild cry Exultant as a canyon wind, Defiant as an unleashed storm. Following the dark journey of my sleep Came the how! Of a coyote, Nudging me into breathless hearing. She was on the cliff above the river. This was no awful cry, No summons to the kill, No mourning for a mate. With head flung high she filled the night, Echoing howls still sounding down the ages, While hurling a challenge to eternity With ali her being, Free and unafraid. And | heard. Sheep on their bedground heard, Stirring uneasily. | drifted down again to sleep-filled places. Back in her cave she licked her Puppies' faces. Zion Canyon, from the collection of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. m the Light af EDITORIAL 1 am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life (John 8:12). As we commemorate the birth of the Savior with the advent of Christmas and we read and reread the various scriptural accounts of the birth of Jesus, the actual and spiritual meanings of the '"'light'"' become more apparent. Every sign which announced his birth signified the coming of the great light to the darkened world. Prophecies of the circumstances that would atVolume 53 November 1966 Number 11 tend his birth contained references to lights appearing in the @ Belle S. Spafford, President heavens as well as the ''Light" @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor of darkness from the minds of ® Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer men According to Luke, as the angel of the Lord came upon the "'shep- —— — herds abiding in the field, keepEdith S. Elliott Hazel S. Love i i Florence J. Madsen —— H. Sharp Ing watch over their flocks by Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor night.... The glory of the Lord Blanche B. Stoddard Anne R. Gledhill " P Evon W. Peterson Beiva B. Ashton shone round about them, while ao al | am the angel announced the birth of Alberta H. Christensen Lila B. Walch H H Mildred B. Eyring ime C. Gundersen the Savior and the multitude of Edith P. Backman Marjorie C. Pingree angels sang "Glory to God in the Winniefred S. Manwaring Darlene C. Dedekind: Elna P. Haymond Cleone R. Eccles highest, and on earth peace, good Mary R. Yi Edythe K. Watso..: seaiy. V. Canton Ellen N. Barnes. Will toward men" (Luke 2:8, 9, 14). Afton W. Hunt Kathryn S. Gilbert 0 = ge Verda F Burton Matthew tells of the bright new F S. Kienitz yrtle R. Olson i i cae pie ea. A star which led the three wise men Jennie R. Scott a from the east, ''and, lo, the star, Alice L. Wilkinson Elaine B. Curtis } 4 Irene W. Buehner Zelma R. West which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was" (Matt. 2:9). B24 @ Marianne C. Stiarp, First Counmaler which would come to lift the veil sag g. G**, oe msi the Vv / pi "'When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy'' (Matt. 2:10). The new star, '"'such an one as ye never have beheld; and this also shall be a sign unto you,"' Samuel, the Lamanite prophet, told the people on the American Continent as he predicted the birth of the Savior. Helaman records that Samuel further prophesied that there would be "great lights in heaven, insomuch that in the night before he cometh there shali be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man as if it was day"' (Helaman 14:3). Therefore, there shall be one day and a night and a day, as if it were one day and there were no night; and this shall be unto you for a sign; for ye shall know of the rising of the sun and also of its setting... And it shall be the night before he is born (Helaman 14:4). The significance of the "'Light'' he brought into the world is even more marked when the contrast of the impenetrable darkness which covered the earth during his crucifixion is noted. But behold, as | said unto you concerning another sign, a sign of his death, behold, in that day that he shall suffer death the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto you; and also the moon and the stars; and there shall be no light upon the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall rise again from the dead (Helaman 14:20). Great destruction accompanied the fearsome and oppressive darkness. Nothing could have more clearly or forcibly illustrated the condition of those who do not believe on him and must walk in darkness. What could be more plain or more graphically illustrated? I John states: ''In him [Christ] was life; and the life was the light of men.'' He speaks, also, of John the Baptist who ''was... Sent... To bear witness of the Light.... That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world'' (John 1: 4, 7, 9). Light represents all that is good and true, the gospel and the plan of salvation. The Light of Christ is love, it embodies faith, hope, and charity. It is all that is clean and pure and righteous. Perhaps there-is a significance of light at Christmastime that has deeper meaning than a casual observer may feel. Do we need the reminder this early before the Christmas season that we have a part in keeping this marvelous light alive, that he has entrusted his Church with the responsibilities of carrying his light to the souls of them who walk in darkness? Surely the brightly lighted Christmas world can help us remember that with the birth of the Savior light and hope and salvation came to man. As you place Christmas lights in your homes and see them in your cities, contemplate on the blessings coming from the "Light of the world,'' and ponder them in your hearts. —L. W. M. 825 Mrs. Ellen C. Henderson, eighty-three, a native Utahn, has finished a year's service with VISTA (Volunteers in Service to America) in Las Vegas, Nevada, and is now teaching in New York City. Teaching children and illiterate adults to read is her specialty. Several books written by her on this subject have been used in schools in various States of the Union, and one, of which she is co-author, is recently off the press. Mrs. Henderson, one of the earliest instructors in speech therapy at the University of Utah, taught at the Indian School at Brigham City, Utah, for seven years. Dr. Virginia Apgar is Director of the Division of Congenital Malformations, of the National Foundation — March of Dimes; also Honorary Fellow, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. She stresses the fact that the pregnant woman takes care of her baby by taking care of herself. Miss Lenore Tawney, a former sculptress, of New York, is an outstanding figure in the American handcraft revival. She weaves shimmering fabrics, principally of black and uncolored fibers, using yarns of varying textures and densities, to achieve a sculpturelike effect in her weaving. The suspended bamboo rods, over which she divides her yarn, remain part of the finished product, which may also incorporate some pigeon feathers and fish bones. These are used as wall hangings, and are very beautiful. Woman's. Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Diane Erickson, wife of a schoolteacher at Anchor Point, on the Kenai Peninsula, Alaska, and mother of three children, has won recognition as a painter of Alaska's rugged mountains and ''wild blue waters." Her work has been displayed at many exhibits and acclaimed as presenting with grandeur "one part of the earth as it was when God created it."' Phyllis S. Peterson, mother of two children, a stockbroker and partner in the firm of Sayd & Company, Washington, D. C., is one of two women ever to be members of the American Stock Exchange in its 116 years of history. The other woman was Julia Montgomery Walsh, a general partner in Ferris and Company, also of Washington. Marty Mann is director of the United States Council on Alcoholism. An important part of her work is to plan and supervise organizations and_ institutions which endeavor to rehabilitate alcoholics, and to prevent teenagers from becoming alcoholics. Carol Beery Davis, wife of Trevor Davis, famous Alaskan photographer, and a graduate in music from the University of Washington, has been a remarkably. Successful music teacher in Juneau, Alaska, for many years. Recently the Juneau-Douglas Concert Association established a music scholarship in her honor. Her booklet "Songs of the Totem,"' is composed of the haunting melodies of the Tlingit Indians. Three of Mrs. Davis' four daughters are distinguished musicians. J Dorothy J. Roberts SHINING AFTERMATH Kathryn Kay In much the way a rainbow follows rain, there is a shining aftermath to pain. As dawn, dark's afterwards, lights up the skies so inner radiance can brighten eyes. | will not weep nor fear the winter frost, fresh green and fragile bloom are worth the cost. | know there is no grief which cold can bring which will not have its epilogue of spring. 827 inside ard Oi WHERE iS THE CHILD? Annie Atkin Tanner Autumn is the fulfillment of summer. The days breathe the warm sunshine And night replenishes each growing vine, The robins welcome the early morning And children play until the twilight dims. 1, too, would seek fulfillment Of the hopes and dreams | had When life was new, And the wind and the terra-cotta hills And the river meandering through the blooming Hietdag Seemed to make my world an enchanted valley. Where is the child who reached for a star And saw castles in the sunsets, In the days that are no more? Courtesy Corn Products Refining Company Make Christmas Cookies Early Alice P. Willardson Christmas cookies will recall an old-fashioned Christmas, and there is nothing children love to do more than making and decorating cookies, unless it is eating them. Let them help you one of those days when it is cold and gray outside. You'll find the sun shining right in your kitchen! It is fun to cut cookies in the shape of Mother Goose rhyme folks and other storybook characters. First, collect and prepare the patterns. Children's coloring books provide animals, clowns, dolls, and toys, of simple outline. Trace, then cut these from strong paper. Eliminate all small details, place pattern, and cut from dough with a sharp knife. Pictures showing the object in silhouette are the most successful. Below is an excellent recipe for wholesome plain cookies to cut into shapes.; AUNT DELLA'S COOKIES 1 c. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder Z2 c. Shortening 4 c. I egg f, c. Flour \% tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla Cream sugar and shortening, add beaten egg, salt, and flavoring. Add milk. Sift baking powder with flour and add gradually to liquid mixture. Form into ball of dough without undue handling. Place on floured board and roll to about ¥% inch in thickness. Cut with available cookie cutters or use these suggestions for variety. Bake until brown (10 to 15 min.) in 400 degree oven. NOVEMBER 1966 This cookie dough may be cut in the shape of stars, bells, or Christmas trees, iced in many colors and decorated so that they can take their place on the Christmas tree among the usual balls and tinsel. Just make a hole near the top before baking, so that they will hang on the tree. Especially delicious and decorative, is a Santa Claus cookie, with red icing for his suit, and his whiskers and the white trimming made with shredded coconut. Here are additional recipes which can be made in advance and held ready to help pack the Christmas boxes. RAISIN-FILLED OATMEAL COOKIES Mix: Combine:; Filling 2 c. Oatmeal 1 c. Brown sugar Boil together: 2 c. Flour 1 c. Melted shortening 1 c. Chopped raisins 1 tsp. Salt 1 egg 14 c. Water 1 tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Vanilla Y% c. Sugar Combine shortening mixture and flour mixture into dough. Divide into two parts. Cover bottom of baking pan with thin layer of dough, press flat with ball of the hand. Spread filling. Crumple remainder of dough over the top and bake at 350 degrees until brown. Do not overbake. Remove from oven and cool 15 minutes, then cut in squares. You may dip the squares in powdered sugar if you like. You will love the nutty richness of these easy-to-make cookies. ICE BOX COOKIES 1 c. Butter 1 tsp. Soda 2 c. Brown sugar 1% tsp. Salt 3 eggs, separated Sift dry ingredients together three 1 c. Nuts, chopped times. 314 c. Flour Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten egg yolks. Add nuts and combine with flour mixture. Add beaten whites of eggs last. Make into two rolls and wrap in wax paper. Let stand in refrigerator overnight. Slice thin and bake in 400 degree oven until brown. DATE DROP COOKIES 1 c. Sugar 3 c. Flour Y% c. Shortening 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 egg 1 tsp. Soda 1 c. Chopped dates 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 c. Raisins 1% tsp. Nutmeg 114 c. Water 1% tsp. Salt Boil raisins in water and drain. Add dates just before mixing. Cream sugar and shortening, add beaten egg and combine with boiled raisins and dates. Sift dry ingredients together then stir into first mixture. Drop by teaspoon on cookie tins and bake until brown in 350 degree oven. Walnuts or chocolate chips may be added if desired. 830 MAKE CHRISTMAS COOKIES EARLY Part of the fun of making cookies is sharing them with others. For those little friends who live near you, you can put a lace doily on a colored paper plate, arrange the cookies, and use another doily to cover them. Make it all secure with a pretty Christmas ribbon. But the best way is to pack the cookies in transparent plastic boxes or cover boxes you have with adhesive backed decorator paper. When tied with ribbons and a sprig of holly, evergreen, or a poinsettia, they are beautiful. These little packages make lovely gifts to take to Grandma, to the neighbors, the homebound, cousins, or friends, and the children are proud to deliver them, especially when they had a hand in making them. FOUR A. M. SIREN Dorothy J. Roberts A four a. M. Siren slices the pre-dawn silence With the scream of — death or birth. It is birth | prefer to dream of — Prone and peaceful, drifting back into the calm. Birth and the velvet fingers, curling, And the daisy-chain of childhood in the palm. GOING SOMEWHERE Linda L. Clarke Where are you going my little lass With your brown and windblown hair? Are you walking alone or with the dove? Do you know you are going somewhere? The search is beginning, it's there in your eyes. The journey is long—this | know— But follow the song of the white dove, She flies to where all rivers flow. | long to walk here beside you, Your shield from all thistles and thorns, But the call, the song of the white dove, Bids you leave on your journey alone. Sing loud, sing clear, oh, white dove, For my lass with the hair of brown. Sing loud, sing clear and lead her To the place where all waters are bound. Comfort Your Baby Shirley Thulin @Here is an idea so attractive and inexpensive you will want to make one for every special baby in your life. This beautiful comforter and crib bumper (covering for the sides of the crib) can be made for less than a third of what you would pay for them at the stores, and are so serviceable and easy to do, you will be pleased with the results. All you need is one double bed ne A IR: Ameren sheet (81" x 108"), one large quiltsize batting, two packages of 114" white blanket binding, one package of white bias tape and one skein of white nylon yarn (for tying the tufts). The sheet should be of a pastel color. Yellow or pale green are pretty choices. If you choose dacron batting, rather than wool or cotton, the comforter will have more washability. If you already have some nylon yarn, it would not need to be all the same color. This would be a good project to use some of your odds and ends, as a sprinkling of colored yarn would add a decorative touch. Use only nylon, however, because wool will shrink and pull tight, spoiling the comforter. Be sure to unpick the hems and pre-wash your sheet, as many sheets shrink at least five inches with the first washing. Also, remember that the stated size of the sheet is the size before it was hemmed at the factory. Now press the sheet and cut as in the diagram. The laundered sheet, with the hems ripped, will measure about 81" x 103". Next, mark with tiny pencil dots, on the comforter top, where the tufts will go. They should be about 4 inches apart. If you place the tufts in even rows 414" from the side edge and 4" from the top edge, this gives even spacing with rows of 10 tufts across the width of the comforter, and 14 tufts down the length. Now place two layers of batting between the top and bottom pieces of the comforter. If you don't have quilting frames, you can place the quilt on the carpeted floor to tuft it. Just place the bottom of the comforter on the floor first, then the two layers of the batting, then cover with the top piece of the comforter. Now thread a large needle with a length of yarn and, using double threads, = K COMFORTER COMFORTER BOTTOM TOP ue as Oo =) aE an a oO 45" >| 45" 4 CRIB BUMPER TOP 14" = 81" L 13" i 103" >| make a running stitch, taking a stitch at every tufting mark of the entire quilt. Cut the yarn halfway between each stitch and tie (in a double knot) the ends to make a tuft. Now bind the entire comforter with blanket binding, being sure to miter the corners for neatness. To make the bumper, which is separate from the comforter, and which is used to protect the baby from getting his head through the bars, cut as in diagram and mark the tufting on the top piece, which is the 14" piece. The tuft marks should be 4" apart. Place a double layer of batting between the top and bottom and tuft as you did the comforter. Now fold the bumper down the long way, with tufts to the outside, making the bumper 80" long and 7' wide. Stitch the double edges all along, turning the raw edges under. This makes a nice, thick bumper. Now, with the bias tape, place ties, stitched securely, where needed to tie to crib corners. 833 60" ow Home for Thanksgiving Mabel Harmer @ Martha picked up the hammer and half a dozen nails and marched grimly towards. The fence. As she tried to fasten the board into place, a sharp gust of the November wind blew an end of her scarf across her face. She dropped the hammer and slipped the nails into her pocket while she retied the scarf, her irritation growing stronger with every move. "You!" she stormed at the pig, who seemed to be actually enjoying her frustration. "If you have to run away, why do you have to go to Jake Bolton's farm?" The question was purely academic, since the break in the fence led directly to the Bolton acres. She was just pounding the last nail into place when she was interrupted by the loud honking of an auto horn. She turned to 836 see Everett Mitchell grinning at her. "Hi, Aunt Matt! I'm sure glad that wasn't my head you were working on." "Next time it will be that pig's head," she retorted. ""He seems to know that he could start a small war by going over to Jake Boltons." "You mean, he could make a small war bigger, don't you?" asked Everett. "I seem to remember that this feud between you and your good neighbor has been going on for some time now. Sort of like the Hatfields and McCoys, in a genteel way." "Well, it's all his fault," said Martha. "Just because I took my turn at the water from the ditch when he claimed it was his." "Yes, I remember," Everett nodded. "You know something, Aunt Matt? Water fights have been going on for as long as history. It isn't only people who fight—individuals, I mean. States and even entire nations fight it out. Of course, it didn't help your neighborly relations any when your boy Rhon jilted Alice Bolton to marry that schoolteacher. I don't know as Alice fretted too much, but I'll bet a wooden nickle that Jake sure did." "You talk too much about matters of which you know nothing," said Martha sharply. "Was that what you came out here to say?" "Certainly not," Everett exclaimed. "This discussion got so interesting I almost forgot. Jim Hayward asked if I'd deliver this telegram. It's been in the office for two days. He also said that if you'd put in a telephone you'd get your messages a lot faster. Besides, you could listen to all the gossip on the party line and "? Martha ignored this last bit of flippancy as she tore open the telegram. "It's from Rhon," she said. "He and the boys are all coming home for Thanksgiving. What's today?" "Wednesday. Are they getting in today or tomorrow?" "He didn't say. Just 'We'll be home for Thanksgiving.' Not even if they are driving, flying, or just walking." "Well, that's nice. I mean it's nice that you will have the boys here for Thanksgiving. Let's see — it's been a couple of years now since his wife died, hasn't it? How old are the boys?" "Six and eight. They're cute little shavers. Full of life as all get-out." Martha's face softened as she smiled at the thoughts of HOME FOR THANKSGIVING her grandchildren. "They'd like for me to come to the city and live with them," she went on, "but I can't leave my place here. I tried it for a few months, but I couldn't make friends in the city. And all that noise and racket got on my nerves. So, as soon as Rhon could get a good housekeeper, I came back home again." "To enjoy yourself mending fences and chasing runaway porkers." "T guess. That among other things," agreed Martha. "You can't walk out on the memories of a lifetime. Not very easily, anyway." "Shucks, you talk like an old woman. And you know you're not a day over seventy-five." "And you know that I'm not a day over fifty-five," Martha retorted. "Sure, I know that," laughed Everett. "Well, I'll run along. Have yourself a merry, merry... No, that's Christmas, isn't it? Well, have a happy Thanksgiving." He gunned his car and swooped out of the yard, sending chickens scattering in every direction. Martha watched him down the road with a half smile and went into the house. So, now what was she going to do? Here it was the day before Thanksgiving and not a morsel of holiday fare. Well, come to think of it, there was practically everything but a turkey. They'd have to make do with roast chickens this time. She would make pie crust and bake the pies first thing in the morning. They weren't fit to eat held over for a day. She could 837 NOVEMBER 1966 cook the pumpkin and get the filling all ready. There would be pickles, rolls, com, peas, and plenty of mashed potatotes. Rhon never got too much of those. She would check the linen and. Silver. My, it had been a long time since she'd had any occasion to bring them out! It would sure be wonderful to have her family home again — especially home for Thanksgiving. She was in the midst of cutting up pumpkin when another car drove into the yard. It was Alice Bolton and two youngsters. Why, it couldn't be! Yes, it was Eric and Timmy. She rushed out as they tumbled out of the car. "Grandma!"' they cried. "We came all alone on the airplane!" She braced herself against the onslaught, and asked in bewilderment, "How...?" "T picked them up at the airport," said Alice. "Rhon had a case in court and couldn't get away until tomorrow. He wasn't sure that he could get reservations for all three tomorrow, so he let the boys go on ahead." "Alone?" Martha repeated, taking their luggage. "Oh, yes, it's no problem," said Alice. "The stewardess looks after them and, once they're on the plane they can't get off until they reach their destination. It's much more sure than train or bus that way." "Well, thanks a lot," said Martha. "T hope it didn't put you out too much." "Not at all," was the cheerful reply. ""Goodbye, boys. Come and see me." "We will," they called and started to run, each in a different direction. "Here! Wait a minute!" called 838 their grandmother. "Where are you going?" "To see the cow and the pigs and all the animals," answered Eric. ''That's mostly why we came." "Indeed," said their grandmother. 'Well, aren't you going to take off those good clothes first? On the farm we have to wear farm clothes." Reluctantly, they turned back and came into the house long enough to change their clothes, then they quickly rushed outdoors again. Martha turned back to her holiday tasks and felt her spirits rising by the moment. How good it would be to have Rhon and the boys home with her, if only for a few days. She had been alone so much and so long. She wished she knew how he had come to call Alice. She guessed there was nothing else he could do. Anyway, Alice was going to marry George Wilkins one of these days, probably. They had been keeping company long enough. Almost since Rhon left, in fact. And George was a good, steady fellow. A mite too steady, maybe, if there was such a thing. She put the pumpkin on the range to cook and went to the door to see if the boys were all right. Yes, there they were climbing among the branches of an apple tree, Well, that was safe enough. She'd let them feed the chickens when the time came. She brought up the jelly and canned peas from the basement. She wished that she had some cranberries and yams. They were almost as much a part of the dinner as the bird. But she didn't have any, and no way of getting any, unless she drove into town. She could make the bread stuffing and have that ready. She was about to call the boys when they came in of their own accord. "We're hungry," Timmy announced, "so we'd like some cookies." "Dear me," Martha exclaimed. "T haven't gotten around to baking them yet. We'll have to start right away." "Daddy said that you always had cookies," Eric insisted. "So I do—most of the time. And we'll have them as soon as I can make them. How about some bread and jam for right now?" "Okay," they agreed. She spread a thick slice for each and poured them a glass of milk. It seemed such a few years since Rhon had been asking the same question. In the midst of his snack, Timmy suddenly asked, "Can we see the turkey?" "Well, I didn't get a turkey," said his grandmother. "You see, I didn't know you were coming. I don't have a telephone — but am sure going to have to get one. Some surprises I like, but not this kind." "Daddy said that you always got a turkey from Mr. Bolton," said Eric. HOME FOR THANKSGIVING "Yes — we did when he was a little boy. But this year we're going to have roast chicken for a change." "Why are we?" Eric went on. "Alice said that they have plenty of turkeys." "Yes, I suppose they have. But they aren't ours. I'm sure that you will enjoy the roast chicken. And, what's more, there will be a drumstick for each one of us. We'd only get part of one if we had a turkey." "Well, Daddy said that we always got a turkey from...." "T know," his grandmother interrupted. "So we did when he was a little boy. But this year we aren't." Martha spoke in such a tone of voice as to settle the matter. She couldn't explain a quarrel between two people who had been neighbors for thirty years. Especially a quarrel over anything that seemed so trivial as to who should use the water on a certain day — even if nations did sometimes quarrel over the same thing. Later on she said, "Now we'll feed the chickens and after supper you can go upstairs and sleep in your daddy's room, where he slept as a little boy." "Will you read us a _ story first?" asked Timmy. "T surely will. I even have some of the books here that I read to Daddy when he was a little boy." She lit a fire in the grate and sat on the couch with a boy on each side, while she read stories. Then she tucked them into bed with such pleasure as she had almost forgotten was possible. As she settled down before the fire again, before going to her own 839 NOVEMBER 1966 room, she felt such a love for all mankind that she almost forgave Jake Bolton — but not quite. She did feel sorry for him, however. She knew that he had been greatly disappointed when Rhon and Alice broke up. And, as for that slow George, if he and Alice didn't get married pretty soon they would be too old to have much of a family. Jake would never be a grandparent, and he would be missing half the joy in life. Yes, she couldn't help feeling sorry for Jake. She went to bed still enveloped in a happy glow and a feeling of good will toward all men. Well,. Nearly all men. The next morning, she did the chores and stirred up batter for pancakes before going to awaken the boys. She called first and, when there was no answer, went upstairs. The bed was empty. What was more, their wraps were gone. "They must have slipped out while I was outside in the barn," she said. 'Now, where in the world?" She went down again, trying to decide which way to look for them. She went first to the bam, almost sure that the boys would be visiting the animals. That was always their first pleasure on the farm. They were not in the barn. They were not in the chicken yard. They were nowhere that she could see. She called until she was almost hoarse. Then she went into the house and took down her whistle, used once in a while to summon the dog. Even he did not answer now. Wherever the boys had gone, he was with them. So much the better. Only, where had they gone? 840 She walked out to the road and looked both ways. She was trying to decide whether to get the car out and start traveling, or simply to go in the house and wait it out, when she saw them coming. They were struggling to carry something between them. She hurried on, but before she could reach them, she saw only too well what it was. They were bringing a turkey — small, but undeniably a live turkey. "What in the wide world!" she gasped. "Where did you get it?" "Over at Bolton's," replied Eric. "Daddy said that you always got your turkey at Boltonis." "That was long ago," said Martha sharply, "and we went over it all last night. Now we'll just have to get in the car and take it back." "But it's ours!" Timmy protested. "Mr. Bolton gave it to us." "We're going back," said Martha firmly. "Even if we keep the turkey we're going to pay for it right now." "All right. But it's ours and we're going to keep it," said Eric. His chin was set in a stubborn line that Martha recognized must be very much like her own. She backed the car out and filled it with boys, a live turkey and a dog. Then she headed down the road to the Bolton farm. Jake was out in the yard hauling some potatoes to the storage cellar. He set down the wheelbarrow and greeted the boys with a smile. "Didn't you give us the turkey?" Eric demanded. "(Grandma says that we can't keep it." "Certainly I gave you the turkey," replied Jake. "We'll just have to talk Grandma into letting you have it." Martha found it increasingly difficult to maintain a look of severity in the face of Jake's jovial manner. What had come over him all of a sudden? Didn't he remember that they hadn't been on friendly terms for years? Maybe he was just putting on a show for the boys. Well, she could play that game, too, just as well as he. "All right, we'll keep it," she agreed. "But I must pay you for it." She spoke so pleasantly that she hardly even knew her own voice. _" "There's not time to get that bird ready for dinner today," said Jake. "I've got one in the house all dressed and ready to shoot into the oven. You take that one home, and we'll save this one until next year. There'll be a lot more to him by then." He went into the house, after putting the live bird back into the fenced pen. While he was HOME FOR THANKSGIVING gone Martha sat thinking, how stupid for two grownup people to be at odds over anything so trivial as who used the water on Monday or Tuesday. Anyway, with all of her blessings, she ought to be kind and gracious to everyone on the face of the earth. She ought to be especially kind to Jake, who didn't have two fine grandsons, like hers, and possibly never would have. When he came out again and put the turkey on the seat beside her, she said, "Thank you very much. And I'll be glad to take the bird. But we want you and Alice to join us for dinner." Much to her surprise, Jake answered, "Sure. We'll be over. We were planning on coming. Alice is going over to the city airport~to pick Rhon up at two, and I guess you'll want to have dinner soon after." "Yes," she nodded _ rather weakly. "That will be fine." She drove home quickly and went to work. The turkey was stuffed, rubbed with butter, and put into the oven. There was barely time now to get it done by two. Then she turned to the table, put in the extra leaves and set it for six. What a long time it had been since she could put a place on the table for more than one or two! Wart could she do for flowers? She solved that by cutting all the blossoms off from her geranium plants and. Putting them in a silver bowl. The boys were under her feet every minute "helping Grandma get dinner." But even that was a joy. In fact, she was so filled with happiness she found it hard to understand. Was it just that her 841 NOVEMBER 1966 family was going to be with her again? It couldn't be because that silly old quarrel with Jake was over and done with? Or could it? Maybe it was a combination of everything pleasant. The boys had a mid-morning snack. They couldn't possibly wait until dinner, especially with the tempting odor of roasting turkey filling the kitchen. She, herself, was far too excited to think about food. The minute the boys heard the car in the driveway, they shouted, ''Here's Daddy!" and rushed out to fling themselves at him as if it had been a year instead of a day since they had parted. Alice and her father stood by smiling until Rhon disentangled himself and came in the house to greet his mother. "Isn't this great, Mom!" he cried, kissing her soundly and lifting her off her feet in a bear hug. "Yes—yes, it certainly is,'"' she agreed somewhat breathlessly. "Take your things upstairs," she went on. "And you, Alice, put your coat and your father's in the front hall closet. Dinner will be ready right away." As soon as Alice had put their wraps away, she came out into the kitchen again and said, "I'm going to help. What shall I do first?" "You might cut up the apples for the Waldorf salad," replied Martha. ''Here's an apron." She busied herself stirring the thickening in the gravy. How pleasant it was to have Alice helping in the kitchen. She wondered if there was anything now between her and Rhon, but didn't dare ask. Maybe this was only an interlude — a meeting just for B42 today, with no future plans. When everything else was on the table, Rhon came into the kitchen to get the turkey and carry it to the table. They bowed their heads as he said the prayer of thanksgiving. As Rhon began to carve the turkey, Eric shouted, "I speak for a drumstick." "IT speak for the other one," echoed Timmy. "It would take you a week to eat one this size," said their father, "but you may have all that you can manage at this meal." The dinner was wonderful, and everyone seemed to be just as gay and relaxed as if this were an everyday affair — at least, an every holiday affair. Afterwards they went into the living room and played some records, low enough so that they could still carry on a conversation. Rhon and Alice sat side by side on the divan and Martha noticed that very shortly she had slipped her hand into his. A few minutes later, Eric announced, "Grandpa says that he'll take us on a hike to the cave tomorrow. Didn't you, Grandpa?" Martha caught her breath. Had it been a slip of a childish tongue, or something more? She looked at the happy faces about her. Of course, it was more. Well, if Jake was going to be grandpa to her own grandsons, it was a mighty good thing that there wasn't going to be any more bickering. She sighed with happiness and contentment. How blessed it was to have a family! To have that family come home for Thanksgiving. %.. Ay oe: oe: ey, 4," Sage. Eae ehoe ae aaah, Myrtle John, Rupert, Idaho, is an artist With her Crochet hook, Her beautifully designeg and expertly Crocheteq articles revea| "petale lace" of exquisite texture and "Pointed Perfection.» The Original Patterns for her doilies, afghans, table. Cloths, and bedspreads have been requested by many women who admire handi-; J.:: 7 Craft, ang Sister 4S fre ly gi en p tterns a detailed 'Nstructions to all Who hay, asked for h becom ig handicraft artists th Ster John Makes o Satin pill Ww Mbroidereg InN yarn, Portraying flower » birds, and animal 4 s lacing the wo of ature jn erman €sign and armonious Coloring, A 4Vorite tif for iste John's @Ppliq Quilts is th sy, an ese Y-Petaleq flo of rich and Splendig lorin decor. Quilts that have be 'prid ful co €rlets"'; ny homes, Pansy f¢| are made IN Bradua nts of th same d in Striking Patterns of yellow a d ecry against rich bly Ple an d burgundy Olor. Th Sheatheq bu are ister John has Served as teacher in Primary and Sunday Schoo) 4nd has been a Relief Society Visiting teacher for more than thirty-five years, 843 Tell Me of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 5 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, of Sydney, Australia, while attending college in California, receives a cablegram asking her to fly home at once due to an emergency in the family. Her friend Betz Condon accompanies Julie. During a stopover in Fiji, Dan Fargo, a friend of Grandfather Ridgehaven, boards the plane, and Julie learns that her fiancé Ron McLaten is lost in the bush. Grandfather arranges an expedition to search for Ron, and Julie and Betz are members of the party. Julie observes that her cousin Wally Ridgehaven is very much interested in Betz, and her Aunt Isabelle is increasingly apprehensive over the prospect of a meeting with Dr. George whom she had once promised to marry.: ® The airplane made a bumpy landing at the town aerodrome, really only a crude landing field scraped out of the bush. "Don't blame the pilot," Big Dan said to Aunt Isabelle. "He's a fine lad. He set this down as 844 gently as possible, considering the terrain." "T know!" She caught her breath. "It's always a rough landing out here, Big Dan. It's always bumpy. I counted on that." Julie knew Aunt Isabelle was talking to keep her courage high. She should save her strength for the ride to the station, she thought, as she walked close behind her and Big Dan. "Why don't I carry you piggyback, Aunt Isabelle?" Wally called to her. "That way you'll arrive in style." "It might shock the Aborigines," she answered, matching his banter. "They would think I should carry you, Baby Boy." Everyone laughed, but Julie noticed Aunt Isabelle's voice was tremulous. Julie looked anxiously at the crowd of townspeople and abos who always met the airplanes. They were dressed in brightcolored plaid shirts, denim or khaki trousers, and big hats. She saw a light blue and white plaid shirt like the one she had sent to Ron for his birthday. Her throat pinched in, but she lifted her head resolutely and scanned the crowd again. Where was Dr. George? Aunt Isabelle would wither away if he did not come to meet her. At last she saw him, elbowing his way through the crowd. Big, wonderful Dr. George McGregor, ' tanned and rugged, with a smile that did not waver, even when he saw how pale and thin Aunt Isabelle was. Grandfather must have prepared him. He was impeccably groomed as a doctor should be even in this far country. His suit was dark and his shirt was white, but he did wear the customary wide hat. Aunt Isabelle waved to him, and Dr. George took off his hat, waving back to her; then he strode forward, and, for all the world to see, he put his arms around her and held her close against his kind, generous heart. "Hold it!" Wally called, running toward them carrying his camera. "I want a picture of Aunt Isabelle falling out of her bloomin' Ivory Tower!" "Oh, George!" Aunt Isabelle's laugh was. A gay tinkle. "Give that boy a pill that will make him grow up." A huge brown and white kelpie came bounding toward Julie. Ron's dog, Casey Jones! She stooped and cuddled him, nuzzling her face in his warm, fluffy hair, so no one could see the tears she could not hold back. He whimpered against her, wriggling his whole body. When she stood up again he licked her hands and tugged at her skirt. TELL ME OF LOVE Then he whirled; circling around her, barking and tugging at her again. "That dog knows everything," Dr. George said. ""He knew you were coming. He had me up at the crack of dawn, running back and forth, howling like a dingo." '"'What's a dingo?" Betz asked Wally. "A wild dog," he answered. "Like your coyotes. Only worse. We hate 'em out here." The tension was broken. Everyone crowded into Dr George's long, comfortable car, bag and baggage, and started for the station all talking at once. They were overjoyed to be with Dr. George again. He had been away for a long time. Betz, Julie noticed, was unusually quiet as she stared out of the window at the sunbaked country, thirsty for water. "You can even smell the dust," she said in a low voice to Julie. "Maybe it's sheep." Julie laughed. "That's your imagination. But every country does smell differently, Betz. Remember the ocean on the California beaches? All that seaweed had an odor." "T didn't notice it," Betz said. "T guess we're used to it." "That's the way it is," Julie went on. "We get used to the way our country smells. I haven't been out here since I came with Grannie about five years ago. So, maybe, that odor you notice is the billabongs. They are muggy, and the breeze comes in from where the sheep are out there grazing." "What's a_ billabong?' questioned. "Little ponds. They can be so Betz 845 NOVEMBER 1966 thing is bone dry. I should prepare you, Betz, for the station house. It will smell like an old shoe until we get it aired out. It is made of asbestos hardboard, so at least there won't be any bricks or rocks to tumble on us in a willie-willie." "What's that?" Betz' blue eyes widened. "You would say 4 cyclone. We get one at the station every five or six years. But people just rebuild and go on living out here. Almost every place in the world has some dreadful thing, like floods, or earthquakes — maybe drought or pests, like flies." Betz squirmed. "Don't worry," Julie went on. "Our flies are harmless and this isn't willie-willie season." "Trade you seats," Wally said. He had been talking to Big Dan and Uncle Geoffrey. Aunt Cleo was sleeping against Uncle John's shoulder. Julie was glad because she knew what a job Aunt Cleo had ahead of her, doing all the cooking on a clumsy old iron range that took a special kind of genius and tons of wood to operate. Dr. George was driving the car, with Aunt Isabelle close beside him. He gave her tender, sidelong glances as if he would never let her out of his sight again. Julie closed her eyes, rememonly for a little while." It is so right, they should be together again, she thought, with an ache in her heart. An _ hour later, Dr. George swung the big car onto the B46 choppy road that led to the station house. It looked even Julie remembered worse than it, squatting like a great dusty-gray toad, surrounded by shearing sheds that squeezed her eyes shut against it. Her heart sank in loneliness an despair. What would her life be like if they didn't find Ron? Drab and dismal, she thought. No color, no radiance, no beauty. "Hey — look over there!" Wally pointed out of the window. "Stop a minute, Dr. George. I want Betz to see our ballerina birds. That's as pretty a sight as any chorus line in the Sydney Trocadero or even in New York!" "New York," Aunt Isabelle laughed. "Wally, you haven't been out of Australia!" Dr. George stopped the car so they could watch the tall brolga. They are beautiful, Julie. S thought, lifting her head. There is always something beautiful or interesting if we look for it. But, sometimes, We let the drabness close us in. "What long legs they have!" Betz said. "They make me think of the flamingos I saw at the zoo in London." "They are about that size," Wally said. "Only flamingos can't dance." "Their coloring is different," Aunt Cleo added. "These are a very pale, delicate gray that fades into the landscape. I'd like a painting of the brolgas in the bush." "We'll have one painted some day," John told her, patting her shoulder. "Look—they're really dancing!" Betz cried ecstatically. "Pye never seen anything like it!" "Grand!" Big Dan agreed. "You won't see anything like this anywhere else in the world." He picked up his guitar and strummed in rhythm with the birds, as they danced in unison through the tufty, brittle grass. He winked at Julie. She reached for her banjo, and they played together, following the movements of the birds. Then Big Dan guided the melody into "Matilda,' and everyone, even Aunt Isabelle, joined in the song. Wally has a rollicking tenor voice that should be trained, Julie thought, noticing that Betz was looking at him with that recurring radiance in her eyes. Dr. George started the car again, but Big Dan kept them singing as they went along. Julie knew why. He had sensed her despair. He had felt her loneliness and realized they must lift their hearts and take their own music with them. A jeep was coming toward them. As it drew nearer Julie recognized Keno and Geena, his wife, Aborigines, caretakers of TELL ME OF LOVE the station who lived there the year around. They had worked for the Ridgehavens ever since they were old enough to hold a broom. They had attended the local school, as all Aborigines were obliged to do. Even in the Deep-Heart country, they were building schools for the Aborigines. Grandfather insisted that Geena and Keno continue their education even though they were married. They could speak some English words now. "A jolly good day!" Big Dan called out. "A jolly good day to you," they called back. Their faces were flushed with excitement, and their white teeth made their smiles flash in the sunshine. Having the Ridgehavens here would be a holiday for them, Julie thought. Generally, Aunt Cleo sent them off to visit their relatives while she cleaned the whole place over in her own way. "Looks like the cat had licked it," she said to Julie as they went inside the house. "Geena does the best she can, but I can't eat a bite or sleep a wink until we scrub it top to bottom." Julie agreed with her, as they hurriedly went from room to room. "We'll put Isabelle in your grandfather's bedroom. That has the only real bed in the house," Cleo said. "The rest of us can use the bunks." Julie squirmed. "Do the straw mattresses still smell like moldy old hay? Betz will wish she'd brought her Calla Deon perfume." Cleo stopped in the middle of spreading fresh sheets on Isabelle's bed. 847 NOVEMBER 1966 There were little twinkles in her blue, blue eyes. "Betz is so daffy about Wally that if he told her those mattresses were stuffed with feathers from the brolga she would believe him. And Wally! Showing off all the time, the way a boy does when he's falling in love and doesn't know it." Julie held her breath for a long, incredulous moment. "No—it can't happen," she insisted. '""Wally is engaged to Sue Ellen. Grandfather won't permit if "We'll see," Cleo answered. "Now, tell Dr. George to bring Isabelle in here. We'll wash the windows later." '"'Wash the windows!" Julie repeated. "Oh, Aunt Cleo, we're all so tired and hungry." =! "We'll eat first, of course," she said. "But Isabelle isn't going to lie in here and look at dirty windowpanes. Not while I have my bloomin' youth. She's going to have sunshine and moonlight and watch the stars up there just as long as she can...." Her voice stumbled. She turned her head from Julie who had never seen her cry before. Aunt Cleo was so strong, so capable, so—so utterly down-toearth. Her voice was husky with tears when she spoke: "When John took me to his father's house for the first time—lIsabelle was kind to me. She knew I was scared clear through. I knew what they would think of me. Sometimes when you're scared of what people think of you, it brings out the worst in you. But after the first shock of knowing John had married me, Isabelle was real nice to me. Not the way your Aunt Tricia was, because she's the only angel I've ever known, 'but kind, for a lady like Isabelle, who even met the Queen when she came to Australia." "Aunt Isabelle has known hard work, too," Julie said, defensively. "Grandfather _ believes each of us should do her part." Cleo dabbed at her eyes. "Isabelle never had to skin a kangaroo," she said in a tight voice. "Oh, maybe, she can shoot one, but could she skin one and then eat it seven days a week for seven weeks without a grumble? Or has she stayed up with the sheep in lambing season so that little ones won't get trampled to death. No, there's a difference, Julie, in what a woman has been trained to do. Isabelle is 'to the manner born,' " she quoted. "I read that in one of the books I'm studying. But I love her. There isn't a thing in this world I wouldn't do to help her. Now—let's get moving. There's food to be packed for their search, there's dinner to get, the house to clean. Hurry and tell Dr. George we're ready for Isabelle." CLeEo bustled to the kitchen, calling for Wally to go to the tank and fill the water bags. "Betz," she said, over her shoulder, "while Wally is gone for the water, you can sweep out the bunk rooms. Shake out the mattresses. There might be bugs, but they won't hurt you." "T want to go with Wally," Betz said with a stubborn pout. Wally turned at the doorway, waiting for her. "No," Cleo said. '""We need you here. Julie, wash every dish in the cupboard with soapy water. One rinse will have to do as water is scarce. So dry them shiny clean. Then set the table. But, first, polish the knives and forks and spoons. There's polish down there on the lower shelf." Big Dan, watching from the doorway, beamed his big smile at Cleo. | "Your John is a very lucky man," he said. "And he knows it," a voice called behind him. It was Uncle John. Cleo's eyes glowed with pleasure. "Oh, come in," she laughed. "This is a busy place." "Four of us will leave at daybreak," Big Dan said. "They will be John, Geoffrey, Dr. George, and myself. Wally will stay here to help you women with the heavy work, and to kill some fresh meat." Wally still lingered in the doorway, hoping Aunt Cleo would change her mind about Betz. Instead, Aunt Cleo handed her the broom. "Now, son," Geoffrey turned to him, "I expect you to be the man of the house while we're. Gone. If we don't find Ron within three days we'll be back for more supplies. I'm leaving one of my best rifles with you. There are moundmaking turkeys out there, and kangaroo is good the way your Aunt Cleo cooks it." "Dad..." Wally's face sobered. "Don't ask me to shoot a bloomin' kangaroo. I wish they were all safe in a zoo. You remember last year I tried to shoot one. It just stood there bouncing on its hind legs, begging a cobber not to kill it.' "Don't be a chook," Geoffrey TELL ME OF LOVE scoffed. He turned to Aunt Cleo, who was cooking at the stove. "Can you shoot a kangaroo?" he asked her. "Cleo is a sharpshooter," Uncle John chimed in. "A real good shot." "We can get more tinned meat at the township and there are sheep out there about forty miles," she said. "You be careful," John said, "it's easy to get lost out there." Even Betz raved about the dinner Cleo served an hour later: curried rice with tinned meat, diced carrots with golden brown fried onions, and a lemon pudding for sweets. "It was good," she told Julie later as they were getting ready for bed. "But a few days of her cooking, and I'll eat myself out of shape." Julie smiled. Betz was slender and cute and looked like a fashion plate, even in an old shirt and trousers. "Know something?" she asked dreamily as she put her hair up in curlers. "I like your family. Even if Cleo is bossy, she's as natural as sunshine. Can she really shoot a kangaroo?" "Why sure! So can I, if I have to," Julie told her. "Well, then, shoot one for me. Because I want a kangaroo coat. I saw a picture of one in a magazine. They are the newest fashion." Julie looked at her. "Listen, Betz, you haven't seen a kangaroo, except in a zoo. You can't imagine how playful they are, when they leap in the bush with their tails pumping. They run together in mobs. It's as Wally 849 NOVEMBER 1966 said, they beg you not to shoot them. If we need fresh meat and can't get out to the sheep, I'll kill one, but not for a fur coat." "How ridiculous!" Betz laughed. "You kill sheep for food and shear them for wool. Unborm lamb coats are a luxury. I'll make a bet with you, Julie, Wally will get me a kangaroo coat." Julie's Irish blue eyes sparked up, and her chin squared off like the bow of the Queen Mary. "Wally is engaged to Sue Ellen Grant," she said very quietly. "I told you she was waiting until he finishes at the University next January." Betz sat down on the bunk, staring at Julie. "You had to know," Julie said. "It's better that I remind you than anyone else." "T guess you did tell me," she said in a thin voice.. "You told me so much about your family— I didn't want to remember that Wally is engaged." Her voice crumbled into little pieces, but she went on: "I haven't known what I wanted until I met Wally. Now—I know. I want to marry Wally and be a Ridgehaven. I'll even work as they do. I'll even...' She looked at Julie. Her eyes did not flinch. "T'll even live out here in the bush if he has to." "Grandfather won't let him forsake Sue Ellen," Julie told her. Betz got to her feet. Her voice was solid iron. "Julie, I'm an American. When we're pushed too far, we fight our way out. There are some things in this life your grandfather can't control—like the wind and the sun and love itself. I think he is a grand gentleman with high ideals. But I'm going to marry Wally. Please, Julie, help me. You know how it is to love someone—the way you love Ron." (To be continued) TO WALK ALONE Mabel Jones Gabbott All that | wanted was this for you That you could tie or buckle your shoe. At night when the stars blinked loftily down At us and the lights in our little town, You read to me, | read to you Of the Little Red Hen and Little Boy Blue, And all | wanted was that you should need To feel this urgency to read. And ail | wanted when the noon sun shone Was that you could walk to school alone. Sometimes the wind tossed leaves in our path; You would leave my side and chase them and laugh; | watched how the breeze tossed your red-gold curls As you dropped my apron to run with the girls; All that | wanted was that you should decide The turn of your sails with the outgoing tide. All that 1 wanted too soon is here; You need me no longer, but, oh, my dear— Childhood, schooldays—now that you're grown, How can | learn to walk alone? 650 Relief Society Activities All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Reno Stake (Nevada) Singing Mothers Concert Fallon, Nevada, May 12, and Reno, Nevada, May 13, 1966 Dorothea J. Folsom, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports: "We are delighted with the success of the first Singing Mothers concert held in Reno Stake. The Singing Mothers are now known to the general public of this area. They were enthusiastically received. The program was of sacred and secular music, along with specialty numbers, with interest for all ages. The script for the concert was written and narrated by Carol Martin. We are so pleased with the response to this concert, and have had many requests to make it an annual affair. We wish to pay special tribute to our very talented chorister Glenda Luekenga, who arranged the program and worked so diligently to make the concert possible. We traveled with her to each ward for rehearsals, and she was truly an inspiration to all. It was an outstanding accomplishment to bring the sisters together from widely scattered wards, one as far away as 140 miles, another ninety miles, and some sixty-five miles—to blend their voices in sweet song was truly a thrill.". Insert: Chorister Glenda Luekenga 851 Wayne Stake (Utah) Visiting Teachers Serving Thirty Years Honored at Social May 5, 1966 Front row, left to vigalate Artie Taft; Eva Albrecht; Maud Pace; Emma Jane Brinkerhoff; Nettie Brian; Loa Johansen. Second row, left to right: Lula Taylor; Emma Forsyth; Laura Behunin; Roxie Jackson; Mary Duncan; Amanda Chidester; Annie DeLeeuw. Back row, standing, left to right: Pearl DeLeeuw, Dorthy Taylor; Della Nelson; Grace Baker; Addie Jackson; Belle Allen; Lela Chappell; Rena Chappell. Ora C. Morrell, President, Wayne Stake Relief Society, reports: "Special recognition was given to the active visiting teachers who have served thirty years or more, and special honor was given to Nettie Brian and Nellie Cannon (not in picture) who have served for fifty years and are still serving. A dramatization 'Beyond Each Door' was presented. The stake Singing Mothers furnished the music, directed by chorister Viola Rees, accompanied by Lola Brown." Danish Mission Relief Society Conference June 4-5, 1966 Relief Society officers, front row, beginning fourth from the right, left to right: Tove Bernskov, Secretary-Treasurer; Ingrid A. Sorenson, Supervisor; Inger Rasmussen, President; Edith Christensen, Counselor. Ingrid A. Sorensen, Supervisor, Danish Mission Relief Society, rpeorts: "On Saturday, June 4th, all the sisters who had traveled to Copenhagen from the outlying districts and Jutland were served breakfast. At 7:30 the Singing Mothers attended a practice for the combined choruses from Copenhagen and Jutland. At 9:30 all the sisters attending the conference were welcomed by the mission leaders, after which they separated into departmental work. At eleven o'clock everyone enjoyed the film 'A Light Shining.' After this presentation, the sisters boarded buses for Tivoli Gardens, where each received a lunch. The buses then returned everyone to the church where a fashion show was presented. At 5:30 everyone gathered for a delicious banquet. Some of the sisters presenied a clever skit which everyone enjoyed. The day ended with a concert held in the chapel. The Singing Mothers presented several numbers, as well as other singing groups from the different branches. "The conference continued Sunday morning with a meeting for the Relief Society leaders. Other members of Relief Society attended Sunday School and testimony meeting in the different branches in Copenhagen. In the afternoon the main session of conference was held and a spiritual feast was enjoyed. After the meeting all those from outside Copenhagen were given a sack of fresh fruit to eat while traveling home. Many fine comments were heard from those who attended the conference, and everyone seemed to be spiritually uplifted and rejuvenated." Toronto (Canada) Stake Relief Society Presents ''A Flight Into Fashion" June 4, 1966 In the picture, Sandra Gill is wearing a dress which she made, and is representative of the fifty-two models who appeared in the "Flight Into Fashion," wearing costumes which they sewed for themselves. Marjorie Innis, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society, reports: "Three hundred fifty Relief Society. Sisters, their husbands, and friends attended an evening dinner and entertainment, June 4, 1966. The models demonstrated the lovely garments which could be made at very little cost, and how Relief Society contributes to the growth and development of our talents. The tables in the cultural hall were tastefully decorated with lilacs. The stage decor typified a spring garden complete 'with bubbling fountain, trees, and flowers. The combined stake Singing Mothers chorus contributed some beautiful music to the outstanding program. The food was delicious. Many commented that this was the nicest affair they had attended since joining the Church." 852 7. - " ):: we am - on eT -_ Deseret Stake (Utah) Elderly Relief Society Members Honored at a Social June 2, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Generverie Blanchard; Hettie Johnson; Jensenie Anderson; Henrietta Barben; Mae H. Shipley; Sarah McCollough; Zola Franklin; Nora Knight. Second row, standing, left to right: Edith Sampson; Elizabeth Keplier; Ida Finlinson; Mary E. Anderson; Lydia Evans; Lynn Warnick; Adeline Jeffery; Carrie Black; Sarah Church; Mina Steele. Ethel M. Stanworth, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports: "Eighteen of the thirty-three sisters of the Deseret Stake over eighty years of age were honored, June 2, 1966. Over 250 Relief Society members gathered at the stake house to honor them. Their ages are from eighty to ninety-six years. The program carried out the pioneer theme, with the stake board members in pioneer dress, complete with sunbonnets. Sixty-five Singing Mothers paid tribute to the elderly sisters in song. It would be impossible to estimate the combined hours of service these dear sisters have given to Relief Society. We feel that this was one of the most rewarding and successful socials we have ever held." British South Mission Relief Society Conducts Fashion Show and Musical Evening March 24, 1966 Viriginia A. Archer, Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society, reports: "More than 150 sisters of the British South Mission Relief Society attended a successful fashion show and musical evening at the Reading chapel to commemorate the 124th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. The event was directed by Elizabeth M. Bental, Second Counselor, assisted by Olive Perry, President, British South Mission Relief Society, Elsie Rock, First Counselor, and Virginia Archer, Supervisor, British South Mission Relief Society. Sisters from all five districts participated. Some of them were experts in the field of dressmaking, but the majority had made their own clothes for the first time. During the weeks before the fashion show, demonstrations in cutting, measuring, and sewing had been given at the district leadership meetings. The fruits of all this work were seen in the bridal gowns, evening dresses, children's clothing, knitted suits, jackets, and millinery. Another section of the show exhibited homemaking meeting projects, including a handmade wicker cradle, covered in exquisitely worked white silk. Also displayed were toys, lamps, lamp shades, pictures, pillowcases, and doll clothes. "Refreshments included a cake made by Sister Archer in the colors of Relief Society, gold and blue. A musical program compiled by Anne Clifford fed the soul. It consisted of a fifteen-minute presentation from each of the districts participating." B54 New Jersey Stake Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts April 20th and April 22nd, 1966 The chorister Maleka Brown stands at the piano; accompanist Ann Park seated at the piano; Ella H. Farnsworth, President, New Jersey Stake Relief Society, at the left on the back row; Alma Saunders, Secretary-Treasurer, at the right on the first row..; Sister Farnsworth reports: "Using as a theme 'Our Promised Valleys,' the Singing Mothers presented two concerts. The program selections covered a variety of musical styles, classical, religious, and contemporary. A narration developed the basic theme that in each heart there are many 'promised valleys' to be discovered. The first concert was presented in the Short Hills Ward chapel, with about four hundred people in attendance including many friends and investigators. After the concert, the audience was invited into the cultural hall, where exhibits from each Relief Society department were displayed and refreshments served. "The second concert was presented in Cranbury, New Jersey, in response to a request from a non-Latter-day Saint group of women who had been impressed by the singing at a concert last year. There were over 250 nonmembers in the audience, who were enthusiastic in their appreciation. The chorus was invited to present another program next year, and two new invitations for further concerts were received. The group was part of the chorus which previously sang at the New York World's Fair, and for two consecutive years at the 'Mother of the Year' awards presentation." NOVEMBER 1966 Florida Mission Relief Society Convention June 18, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: President Elroy Stapleton, First Counselor, Florida Mission; Jeanette Owens, Counselor, Georgia-Florida District Relief Society; Florida Mission Relief Society officers: Lena Bruner, SecretaryTreasurer; Ruby Powell, Counselor; Mildred Barlow, Counselor; Moneta Oates, President; Linnie F. Montierth, guest speaker; Tracy Dinkins, President, Gulf District Relief Society; Elvia Peters, President, West Florida District Relief Society; President Lincoln Barlow, Counselor, Florida Mission, and Relief Society advisor. Sister Oates reports: "The annual Florida Mission Relief Society Convention was held at the new West Florida Stake Center in Tallahassee. We were thrilled at the attendance of over 125. Many of the sisters from the Gulf District had to leave their homes at three o'clock in the morning to be in attendance. Our theme was 'Home Is My Harbor.' The Georgia-Florida District, under the direction of Jeanette Owens, presented the play 'Home Is My Harbor,' which was one of the highlights of the convention. Sister Oates spoke on 'Home Is Our Harbor,' and President and Sister Barlow spoke on 'The Ideal Latter-day Saint Woman, Wife, and Mother,' and 'Attaining Ideal Latter-day Saint Womanhood Through Service in Relief Society,' respectively. Our guest speakers were President Zeniff D. Harrison, who spoke on 'The Art of Rearing Latter-day Saint Boys Successfully,' and Linnie F. Montierth, who spoke on 'The Art of Rearing Latter-day Saint Girls Successfully.' The film strip 'And Then Came the Women' was presented. Lovely musical numbers were presented by the West Florida District, under the direction of Elvia Peters, and by the Gulf District, under direction of Tracy Dinkins. Informative departments were held, and a small potted plant was presented to each sister as a token of love and appreciation for her faithful labors. A delicious luncheon was served under the direction of Ellen Bryan, President, Tallahassee Branch Relief Society." Leeds Stake (England), Sheffield Ward Relief Society Closing Social June 28, 1966 Standing, left to right: Margaret Phillipson (partly visible); Irene M. Bustin; Bessie Nettleship; E. Mary Brownlow; A. Margaret Parsons; Katrina Melbourne; Helen Bell (partly visible). Seated, left to right: Lily Machell; Vera Beattie; Sister Lakin (Sister Beattie's mother (partly visible). Margaret Greenfield, President, Sheffield Ward Relief Society, reports: "The occasion was a social given for the Relief Society sisters, marking the end of the winter lessons, but held over to June 28th, being the last Tuesday that Vera Beattie would be with us before leaving Sheffield with her husband and son Roger. (Their eldest son, John, is at present away at University.) We decided this social should be held in Sister Beattie's honor. She has been a member of the Church all of her life, and a valuable worker, being President of Leeds Stake Relief Society when the opportunity was presented to Brother Beattie to work in the London Temple as an electrician. We shall miss them so much in Sheffield, but look forward to seeing them many times on temple visits. "The tablecloth in the picture was presented to Sister Beattie by Sister Bustin. The tablecloth was beautifully made, with the names of Sister Garlick, our homemaking leader, and the names of the other Relief Society sisters embroidered on it, giving the tablecloth a very effective appearance." B56 i. Lesson Department Wa SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 77 — A Divine Document Prepares the Way for the Restoration of the Gospel (Text: Doctrine and Covenants 98:1-22; 101:76-80) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman recognizes the Lord's purpose in establishing the Constitution of the United States. INTRODUCTION Section 98 of the Doctrine and Covenants contains information relative to the fundamental law of the land, the purpose of which is to guarantee certain rights and privileges to those who live in the United States. It is a testimony to the inspiration of this Section that it was received in the midst of the difficulties and persecutions of the saints in Missouri. PREPARATION FOR THE CONSTITUTION Latter-day Saints should have a deep appreciation of the Lord's loving concern for his children, as illustrated in his words concerning the land of America. The rights established here "should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh" (D&C 101:77). Class Discussion How did the Lord prepare the way for the restoration of the gospel? In the scriptures the Lord details his watchcare over North and South America and the people of the Western Hemisphere as long as they would serve Jesus Christ so that his gospel might be restored in the last days. 1. The land was kept from the knowledge of other nations until the Holy Roman Empire had been broken up and the various nations had established themselves as independent kingdoms. (2 Nephi 1:6, 8.) 2. God inspired Columbus to go "forth upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in the promised land" (1 Nephi 13:12). 8. During the periods of religious persecution in the world people fled to America (1 Nephi 13:13-16). 4. In a remarkable prophecy 2300 years before the Revolutionary War of the United States, God predicted the war of independence and _ indicated "that the Gentiles that had gone out of captivity were delivered by the power of God out of the hands of all other nations" (1 Nephi 13:19). 5. The Lord declared, "this land shall be a land of liberty unto the Gentiles, and there shall be no kings upon the land" (2 Nephi 10:11). 6. "For this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very. Purpose" (D&C 101:80). 7. God declared "it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another" (D&C 101: 79). 8. "I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land" (D&C 98:6). 9. God declared, "Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ" (Ether 2:12). The Book of Mormon tells of the city of Zion to be built upon the American continent in the last days. (Ether 13:4-6.) In 1831, it was revealed that this city would be built eventually in Jackson County, Missouri. (D&C ae leo.) A study of the development of America establishes the truth that God's hand has been over the land in order that the restoration of the gospel might be possible and that the work of the Lord in the last days might come to fruition. We must look to the background of the early colonists of America for the historical roots out of which came the form of government established in the United States. The colonists were largely from England; consequently, they brought with them, principally, English ideas LESSON DEPARTMENT upon which to build a government. In fact, it has been said that Americans in the Revolution were fighting to recover old rights which had belonged to them as Englishmen. Earlier in English history certain elements of freedom for the people were embodied in unwritten customs and in written statements, one of which was the Magna Charta (1215). This document had come to mean that the people as a whole had rights which the King could not violate. From England the colonists also received ideas of political liberty such as the right of trial by jury, representative government, and the protection against an unjust government of "home, family, person, and property." From Europe came Germans, Frenchmen, Dutchmen, Scandinavians, and people from other nations as well. Out of the resulting discussions in the American. Colonies prior to the American Revolution were born great ideas, unique at that time to America, such as freedom of speech, freedom of press, freedom of the right of assembly. We should remember, also, that although Americans inherited a_ legacy from Europe, new forces arose in America, under divine inspiration, which provided under the Government of the United States the needed protection for the establishment of the gospel of Jesus Christ in the dispensation of the fulness of times. THE BEGINNING OF A NATION Thirteen colonies flourished along the eastern seaboard of the country under the rule of England. By 1763, England had fought and won the French and NOVEMBER 1966 Indian Wars to protect these colonies, and, in order to pay part of the cost, heavy taxes were levied upon the colonies. There went up the cry "no taxation without representation." In 1774, colonial delegates to a convention met and drew up a "'Declaration of Rights and Grievances" to be submitted to King George III of England. Unfortunately, this conflict could not be resolved by arbitration. To make their protest heard, the colonists agreed that they would not import any goods from England until satisfaction was met. Unable to find a satisfactory solution, the British government sent ten thousand troops to America to enforce the law. In July 1775, the Continental Congress appointed General George Washington commander-in-chief of the Continental Army. The Revolutionary War was a fact with continued fighting between England and the colonies. On July 4, 1776, in Philadelphia, the Declaration of Independence was finally adopted. Class Discussion Why was it necessary for this nation to be born? President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., answers this:... That there should come into the world and take a guiding place among the family of nations, a government and a people dedicated to the principles that certain great fundamental truths were self-evident; "that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed."... I say that in establishing this government, God movetl forward, according to His promise and 'declared purpose, as set out in Holy Writ to make this land 'a land choice above all lands." This is the great motif which runs through our whole history (The Deseret News, Church Section, March 4, 1939, page 1). In 1777, the colonies drew up the Articles of Confederation in order to win the war with England and also to establish a lasting union. This form of government, which continued from 1781 to 1789, was one in which the States retained their sovereignty, freedom, and independence. This league of States, however, lacked a central power by which the Confederation could function as a Nation. Because of the, inadequacy of the Articles, a convention was called to amend them. This Convention in 1787, under the leadership of George Washington, set the Articles aside and drafted a new document, known as the Constitution of the United States. Washington's words were: "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair, the event is in the hand of God." But during the Constitutional Convention and after four or five weeks of 'discussion and argument, the progress being very slow, Benjamin Franklin addressed himself to the presiding officer, George Washington, and asked the following: In this situation of the Assembly, groping as it were in the dark to find political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has it happened, Sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of lights to illuminate our understanding? He then reminded the Convention that divine assistance had been sought during the struggle with Great Britain and that their prayers were answered. Then he said: I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth—that God governs in the affairs of men. Class Discussion What does the Constitution of the United States mean to you as a Latter-day Saint woman living anywhere in the world today? The men who formulated the Constitution were foreordained to this very purpose:... I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (D&C 101:80). The opportunity to receive the fulness of the gospel at the hands of the Priesthood of God was not possible to these "wise men," but through the principle of salvation for the dead, the Lord revealed that this was possible. President Wilford Woodruff said about the signers of the Declaration of Independence, some of whom were in the Constitutional Convention: I am going to bear my testimony to this assembly, if I never do it again in my life, that those men who laid the foundation of the American government and signed the Declaration of Independence were the best spirits the God of heaven could find on the face of the earth. They were choice spirits, not wicked men. General Washington and all the men that labored for the purpose were inspired of the Lord. Another thing I am going to say here, because I have a right to say it. Every one of those men that signed the Declaration of Independence, with -General Washington, called upon me, LESSON DEPARTMENT as an Apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ, in the Temple at St. George, two consecutive nights and demanded at my hands that I should go forth and attend to the ordinances of the House of God for them. Men are here, I believe, that know of. This, Brother J. D. T. McAllister, David H. Cannon, and James G. Bleak. Brother McAllister baptized me for all those men and then I told those brethren that it was their duty to go into the Temple and labor until they had got endowments for all of them. They did it. Would those spirits have called upon me, as an Elder in Israel, to perform that work if they had not been noble spirits before God? They would not. I bear this testimony, because it is true. The Spirit of God bore record to myself and the brethren while we were laboring in that way (Conference Report, April 1898, pp. 89-90). Because the Lord had declared that he had established the Constitution by the hands of wise men, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Counselor in the First Presidency to three Presidents of the Church, accepted it as a part of his religion. The genius of the Constitution, he felt, was not only in the freedoms and rights granted to the citizens of the United States, but also in the separation of the fusion of governmental functions—the legislative, the executive, and the judicial. ORIGIN OF THE BILL OF RIGHTS In order further to guarantee the right of the individual, the following ten amendments known as the Bill of Rights went into effect in 1791, with the approval of the First Congress under the new Constitution: Bill of Rights Provisions Article One Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or NOVEMBER 1966 e Government srievances, Article Two A well regulated Militia be The right of the people to be secure in their Persons, houses, Papers, and Probable Cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and Particularly describing the Place to be Searched, and the Persons or things to be seized. Article Five No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous ess on a Presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in B62 the witnesses against him; to have compulsory Process for obtaining wit. Article Seven In suits at common law, where the value in controversy States, according to the Common law, Article Ten The Powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States to the People. President Clark counseled ag follows and gave hi i cerning the Constitution: conclude yoy cannot afford to lose any of those rights,... as you wish, if you are going to be a free people ("Some Political Blessings,' Address at Brigham Young University, May 21, 1957). REVELATION AND RIGHTS In 1833, when the Lord revealed that he had established the Constitution of the United States, it was fifty years old. It wasn't until thirty years later that the two amendments abolishing slavery and guaranteeing citizenship and its protection were enacted. The Lord, in Section 101, said: According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land... (Verses 77-80). Class Discussion According to the Lord, for what purpose was the Constitution established? CONCLUSION In concluding this lesson, we may say, because of the Savior's words to the Nephites following his resurrection, that the American Nation was set up as a free nation in the last days as an act of God. For it is wisdom in the Father that they [the Gentiles] should be established in this land, and be set up as a free people by the power of the Father, that these things [true gospel LESSON DEPARTMENT teachings] might come forth from them unto a remnant of your seed, that the covenant of the Father may be fulfilled which he hath covenanted with his people, O house of Israel (3 Nephi 21:4). It was possible for the gospel of Jesus Christ to be restored upon the American Continent because it is the land where a free people reside. From here the restored gospel's principles of free agency and freedom were to spread to bless all nations, kindreds, tongues, and peoples. Because of the United States Government, we have seen the partial fulfillment of the Savior's words to the Nephites. The gospel has been taken to other nations under the protection of the United States government and with the cooperation of many nations. In accordance with the prophecies of the perpetuity of the Church, so also will America continue to fulfill its purposes. Despite some provocations against this Nation, and at times a lack of political acumen, the Lord has continued to bless this great land, a land designated as Zion. The Prophet Joseph Smith believed that the Constitution was a part of his religion, for he said: The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. It is a heavenly banner; it is to all those who are privileged with the sweets of its liberty, like the cooling shades and refreshing waters of a great rock in a thirsty and weary land. It is like a great tree under whose branches men from every clime can be shielded from the burning rays of the sun.... We say that God is true; that the Constitution of the United States is true; that the Bible is true; that the Book of Mormon is true; that the Book of Covenants is true; that Christ is true... (DHC III:304). 863 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 77 — "'Let Your Hearts Be Comforted; For All Things Shall Work Together For Good to Them That Walk Uprightly" (D&C 100:15). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To understand that all life experiences will work Men die in steaming jungles. A bright, promising child of six is paralyzed by an automobile accident. A mother of eight dies of influenza. A snowslide buries a hundred people. Thousands die of famine. Amid cries of hopelessness and helplessness comes the calm, assuring promise of the Lord, "Let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly" (D&C 100:15). A Latter-day Saint knows that one of the purposes of earth life is to be tested. In the beginning before man was on the earth, God said, "we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them... And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads for ever and ever" (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:25-26). In this great plan man was to learn good from evil and hopefully choose the good. In this great testing, misfortune comes to all of us. The Lord knew that man would suffer and die of cancer, that man would torture and kill, that women would die in childbirth, and that 864 for good to the righteous. Airplane crashes would snuff out the lives of loved ones, and yet he counseled "... Fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full" (D&C 101:36). Of Christ, the scriptures say, "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by — the things which he suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). If glory and happiness had to be won by the Savior, then can we not be comforted when our Lord says, "... Peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high" (D&C 121: 7-8). When we are personally burdened with sorrow and misfortune, service to others will not only be helpful to them but will also bring solace to us. Let us, then, walk uprightly, giving meat to the hungry, drink to the thirsty, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and those that are in prison, and loving the Lord and our neighbors with all our hearts. If we follow the Prophet Joseph Smith's great admonition given to the Relief Society at their second meeting, we will "fly to the relief of the stranger... Pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed... Dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice" (DHC, Vol. IV, p. 567). LESSON DEPARTMENT If we walk uprightly, we shall learn how to love, how to be patient, gentle, kind, forbearing, and forgiving, understanding that all thing shall work together for our good. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To show that wise financial planning is helpful in all circumstances for all age groups. NOTE: The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing INTRODUCTION In the life cycle of a family, each stage of development has a direct influence on all succeeding stages as they appear. Probably the most important of these is the first one—that established by two young parents who, as "Young Marrieds," begin this important life cycle. The final stage, retirement, depends for its success almost entirely upon the long-range plans made by these young partners. Especially is this true in regard to their financial planning, with which this discussion is concerned. YOUNG MARRIEDS In the early years of living together, the young marriage partners must make adjustments and plans which will determine the future—indeed, the entire structhe objective of the discussion. Ture of the family which they hope to establish. This is not easy, for seldom do the bride and groom come from backgrounds which are identical in nature from whatever perspective they might be viewed. But the differences can actually be sources of strength if they are brought into a proper balance by careful planning and mutual cooperation. TO DISCUSS Case Study A: Tom and Margaret are beginning their married life. Their financial prospects are good, Tom having a position with possibilities of future advancement in a well-established firm. In planning where to live, they decide in favor of a modest apartment which they furnish economically, but tastefully, with just those things which are necessary for their immediate needs. Together, they work out a plan which will enable them to realize 865 NOVEMBER 1966 some of their desires and ambitions for the future. The success of this plan, they realize, depends upon a program of self-discipline and selfdenial. Many of the immediate wants will have to be curtailed since they do not want to go in debt. They invest in an insurance plan which will be a protective safeguard in the future. They also work out a plan of saving for future needs, including a home. This they do by putting aside small amounts regularly for this purpose. Discuss the advisability of making such a plan. What are the benefits of selfdiscipline and self-denial in es-_ tablishing financial security? What are the responsibilities of parents in preparing young people to accept the financial obligations of marriage and live within their means? Case Study B: Ted and Jeanne are also beginning married life. They have no carefully worked-out plan of expenditures. Budgeting for them becomes merely a matter of distributing the income to meet obligations which have already been made. Instead of being able to establish a savings account or any other kind of plan for the future, Ted and Jeanne must depend on their ability to borrow money to offset the discrepancies which are bound to arise between income and contracted obligations. What are the pitfalls of this kind of living? The inevitable result of this lack of foresight and planning is disastrous, and it can mean the complete collapse of the family financial structure. Money problems which arise from poor financial management, extravagance, and living beyond one's income are some of the most serious causes of bickering and quarreling in families, sometimes leading even to divorce. 866 When starting a home it is important for husband and wife to plan the goals they wish to attain. Working together to achieve these goals will bring much satisfaction. A clearly defined goal will give to a family the incentive to make financial sacrifices in early years of married life, in order to attain the goals set by them. If young married couples start saving early for a home, they have a much better chance of obtaining that goal, than those who do not plan or work to gain their desires. There is not an "ideal budget" or plan of expenditures for a young married couple or for any individual or group of individuals. Last month's discussion attempted to show that each family must think through and develop its own family financial plan in the form of a budget which will set up guidelines to solve its own financial problems. Be wise as a young bride and groom, but also be wise as an established family group. Try to avoid mistakes which can result from lack of foresight and planning. SPECIFIC SAVING PRACTICES There are specific things families may do to facilitate living within a budget. These vary in the various countries. Quantity buying of staples, for example, which is a wise practice in some countries may not be feasible where housing, climate conditions and other factors make storage for any length of time impractical. In the United States, families may make real savings by shopping weekly for the "food leaders" advertised by grocery stores. One gentleman reported saving $300 in one year by following this practice. In the Scandinavian countries, after-season and also after-holiday clothing sales enable families to save on their purchases of clothing. The stores also have furniture and drapery, bedding and "white" sales at certain periods of the year. Wise shoppers will plan to purchase their needs at these times. Small fruits are in abundance and many may be picked in the forests at no cost. Apples are in plentiful supply. Savings can be affected by preserving these fruits and making jams, jellies, and applesauce. THE RETIRED COUPLE Too often we fail to realize that the retired couple are the same two individuals who began the family cycle and that their financial standing is the direct result of what has gone before. Church leaders frequently counLESSON DEPARTMENT sel members to prepare for their old age during their income producing years by saving or investing funds for this particular purpose. If the family financial plan has been carefully worked out and followed, the years of retirement will have been properly and adequately provided for. However, the same general rules also apply, with the proper adjustments and adaptions, in this last stage of the family cycle. People who are in retirement are wise if they follow the same procedures of estimating their income, calculating their fixed expenditures, planning their daily expenses, and using what extra funds they may have, not for saving for the future, but for enjoying life while they can. None. Of this needs to be a burden, for it naturally falls into an easilyfollowed pattern of living. What benefits do the retired couple reap from having a wise financial plan early in life? SEA ETCHING Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn The sound of waves becomes translated Into ripples, scrolled and fanned, That show the pattern of the tide Clear-etched upon the wet sea sand. 867 SOCIAL RELATIONS—On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 2—Heirs to the Kingdom Reference: On Earth and in Heaven (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual—1967, Lessons 17 and 18) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: To point out some general aspects of gospel ordinances and to point out that the ordinance of baptism is not essential to the redemption of little children. INTRODUCTION The following conversation overheard immediately preceding and at the conclusion of an informal lecture, is particularly relevant to this, and two subsequent lessons: Friend A. I don't know exactly why I am in this audience today. I know all about the subject to be discussed. Friend B. (at the conclusion of the informal lecture) Why didn't you raise your hand when the speaker asked the questions? I thought you knew all about the subject. Friend A. Well, I thought I did know the subject, but when it came to giving concrete, specific answers, I simply didn't know them. Friend B. You mean there is a difference between knowing about a subject and actually knowing the facts? Friend A. Very definitely. I am so grateful that I came today. Relief Society women are generally familiar with the blessings and purposes of the ordinances of the Church, administered by bearers of the Priesthood. They often may not be informed, however, as to the scriptural sources and full dimensions of these ordinances, nor with the meaningful facts with which they are as- 868 sociated. While all gospel ordinances are an expression of the divine will, designed for the good and blessings of mankind, not all ordinances are of equal importance in relation to man's salvation. This lesson will outline briefly the plan of salvation and will discuss some of the ordinances which are associated with this gospel plan. GOSPEL ORDINANCES When the scriptures speak of ordinances, generally, they mean the law and requirements which God has instituted for the salvation of man, as illustrated by the following statement: "And this shall be our covenant—that we will walk in all the ordinances of the Lord" (D&C 136:4). In this lesson the term ordinance refers to rites and ceremonies of the gospel which are performed by the authority of the Priesthood for the blessing and salvation of man. An essential feature of all gospel ordinances is that they must be performed by authority of the Priesthood, for he who performs the ordinance must be endowed with power and authority to act in place of the Master. The Priesthood bearer evidences this requirement when he states that the ordinance is performed in the name of Jesus Christ, and by authority of the Holy Melchizedek Priesthood. Those gospel ordinances which are essential for entrance and exaltation in the celestial kingdom are known as ordinances of salvation. Those ordinances which are not a requisite for salvation, and which are given to bless, encourage, and for adminstration are known as ordinances of administration. Class Discussion Why and where would you classify the following ordinances of the Church? Blessing and naming of infants. Healing the sick. Giving a patriarchal blessing. Setting an individual apart for a position in the Church. Baptizing an individual. Temple ordinances. Po PON re SALVATION OFFERED TO MAN Of God the Father, and our relationship to him, the Prophet Joseph Smith said: God himself, finding he was in the midst of spirits and glory, because he was more intelligent, saw proper to institute laws whereby the rest could have a privilege to advance like himself. The relationship we have with God places us in a situation to advance in knowledge. He has power to institute laws to instruct the weaker intelligences, that they may be exalted with himself, so that they might have one glory upon another, and all that knowledge, power, glory, and in-. Telligence, which is requisite in order to save them in the world of spirits. As spirit children of God, we dwelt with him in a pre-earth LESSON DEPARTMENT life. We knew him as a glorified, exalted Personage, who possessed both immortality and eternal life. We knew him as the Author of the plan of salvation, providing the laws and the means whereby his spirit children might be saved. His plan, based upon the law of free agency, "called for a preexistent life of preparation, a period of mortal probation, and a separation of body and _ spirit called death, a resurrection for all men, and an inheritance of eternal life for such of his spirit 'children as obeyed the fulness of his laws." This plan of the Father required that an atoning sacrifice be made by one of his spirit children who would be born into the world as his Son, "thus inheriting from him the power of immortality." CHRIST THE APPOINTED REDEEMER Familiar to all Latter-day Saints is the truth that he whom we know as Jesus of Nazareth was chosen in that premortal life to become the Christ, that Son who would make the atoning sacrifice for all mankind. They know that during his ministry among men, he set the perfect example as to how men must live in order to inherit eternal life. They know that he kept all the commandments of God, that he taught the doctrine of the gospel, that he performed ordinances, healed the sick, wrought miracles through the divine power inherent within him. The question is sometimes asked: "If God is the Author of the plan of salvation, why do we speak of the gospel as the gospel of Jesus Christ?''""Because he accepted and advocated the Fa- 869 NOVEMBER 1966 ther's plan of salvation, thus adopting it as his own, he became the Author of eternal salvation unto all them that believe. This plan of salvation is known as the gospel of Christ."' Relevant to this truth is the following scripture:. Salvation was, and is, and is to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent (Mosiah 3:18). In Jesus The Christ we read:... The Father operated in the work of creation through the Son, who thus became the executive through whom the will, commandment, or word of the Father was put into effect.... The part taken by Jesus Christ in the creation, a part so prominent as to justify our calling Him the Creator, is set forth in many scriptures (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus The Christ, page 33). Thus we see that "Christ, as God, possesses the power of his Father. He, too, can do all things necessary to save and exalt the spirit children of the Father. Christ, accordingly, became both the Creator and the Redeemer of the world—the creation and the redemption being the two great events without which there could be no salvation." OF SUCH IS THE KINGDOM OF GOD The ordinance of naming and blessing a child, although not essential to its salvation, is of special importance in establishing and maintaining its identity upon the records of the Church, and is a blessing to both child and parents. 1. In what ways may the blessing of a child involve the parents? 2. How may the ordinance of blessing children contribute to unity within a family? 870 3. How may this ordinance impress parents as to their parental responsibility to guide their children in light and truth? The ancient disciples apparently were concerned about the ordinance of blessing children, since they rebuked those who brought their children to Jesus to be blessed: But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God (Mark 10:14). And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them (Mark 10:16). From The Book of Mormon we read this impressive scripture: And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them (3 Nephi 17:21). ESSENTIAL ORDINANCES Since the ordinances of salvation are essential for exaltation in the celestial kingdom, and since baptism is an essential ordinance, no accountable person can be saved in this kingdom witL ut benefit of this sacred ordinance. This truth necessitates the vicarious baptism for the dead. For Discussion: How does this fact evidence the law of divine justice? How does this essential ordinance relate to children who die in infancy and therefore have: not reached the age of accountability? HEIRS TO THE CELESTIAL KINGDOM Both ancient and modern revelation assures parents that their children who die in infancy (and therefore are not accountable) are automatically heirs to the celestial kingdom and do not need the ordinance of baptism. The Lord revealed to Joseph Smith the truth that, Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God (D&C 93:38). But behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children until they begin to become accountable before me (D&C 29:46-47). Thus, the spirit children of God leave his presence and enter mortality free from sin, having no need for repentance until they arrive at an age of accountability. Should they die in this state of purity, they are automatically qualified to return to the celestial presence of God the Father from which they came. They will not, however, attain exaltation "in that kingdom until they have complied with all the requirements of that kingdom" (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, 2:54). How comforting to all parents whose children have died in infancy to learn the glorious doctrine which President Joseph Fielding Smith expresses in these words: The Lord is just and will not deprive any person of a blessing, simply because he dies before that blessing can be received. It would be manifestly unfair to deprive a little child of the privilege of receiving all the blessings of exaltation in the world to come simply because it died in infancy. LESSON DEPARTMENT The same thing is true of the young men who were deprived of these blessings and laid down their lives during the war. The Lord judges every soul by the intent of the heart. All that we need do for children [before accountability] is to have them sealed to their parents. They need no baptism and never will, for our Lord has performed all the work necessary for them. Children who die in childhood will not be deprived of any blessing. When they grow after the resurrection, to the full maturity of the spirit, they will be entitled to all the blessings which they would have been entitled to had they been privileged to tarry here and receive them (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, 2: 54). The significance of this gospel doctrine can be more fully realized by a parent whose infant has been taken by death and who has heretofore believed that child to be lost forever. LIFE STORY Sister "R" was a parent, having lost two children in infancy before they had been christened. Her grief was not to be assuaged. One day two Latter-day Saint missionaries called at her home. When these young men, with a message of truth, told her that all children who die before the age of accountability need no baptism, for they are saved in the celestial kingdom, she asked eagerly for scriptural proof. One of the missionaries opening the Bible recalled the words of the Savior: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10: 14). For a fuller explanation he then opened The Book of Mormon. How sweet to her were these comforting words: 871 NOVEMBER 1966 Behold I say unto yon that this shall ye teach—repentance and baptism unto those who are accountable and capable of committing sin; yea, teach parents that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves as their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little children. And their little children need no repentance, neither baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling the commandments unto the remission of sins (Moroni 8:10-11). Little children cannot repent; wherefore, it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of God unto them, for they are all alive in him because of his mercy (Moroni 8:19).... Wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children (Moroni 8:9). Sister "R" is now a devoted member of the Church, the door of a receptive mind having been opened through this important gospel truth. Of like comfort to many families is the message by President Joseph Fielding Smith in these words: Mentally deficient persons, those who are incompetent of understanding, are classed among those who are redeemed as little children through the atonement of our Redeemer. They need no baptism (Doctrines of Salvation, 2:55-56). One may ask, if baptism is for the remission of sin, why was Jesus of Nazareth, who was withRESOLUTION Estella S. Johnson Age eighty-three out sin, baptized? It is evident from the fact that he was baptized by immersion of John the Baptist that there are other considerations. The following lesson will discuss those aspects of this saving ordinance. CONCLUSION The gospel of Christ is a gospel of blessings to all mankind; ordained to bring peace, honor, and progress toward ultimate perfection to the spirit children of the Father. To the extent that they keep its foreordained commandments, performing the ordinances of salvation which are an inseparable factor, this perfection will be attained. How blest are they who are humble enough for faith; who develop the spiritual insight to understand, to know, and to obey! FOR DISCUSSION Questions that arise during the lesson development. FOR HOME DOING If available, read lesson 17 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, for 1967. Check to see if there are any children in your family who have reached the age of accountability who have not as yet been baptized. Help your children to know that the Savior loves them. Help them to understand and cherish the gospel ordinances they may receive while in childhood and in youth. My hands got too tired to work on a rug, My eyes with cataracts sore, | said to a heavy quilt | was making "It never look at you more. So after my flowers got hit with the frost, | picked up my tablet and pen; They can call, they can shout, They can fet the calves out, I'll never be bothered again. 872 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Dr. Bruce B. Clark Lesson 4—"'There Is Always Time for Courtesy." 'There is always time for courtesy." Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: A woman should be respectful and considerate of other people at all times, but not to the point of compromising This month's lesson includes seven short selections—two stories, four poems, and an essay. All of these are printed, with full comments and questions for discussion, in Section Four of Volume II of Out of the Best Books. Obviously, a class leader should not try to cover all seven selections, even though each is brief. Instead she should study the selections and choose those that she feels will be most appropriate and valuable for her group. (Note to class leaders: "My Last Duchess" by Robert Browning, and the essay by John Henry Newman are no longer under copyright and may be recopied as you desire; the other five selections are still under copyright, however, and should not be recopied without special permission from the original publisher.) GENERAL COMMENT: Lesson 2, on Refinement, and this lesson, on Courtesy, are very closely related. Both are concerned with the qualities that identify a person of gentle culture. But whereas Lesson 2 was concerned primarily with the refinement of the person herself, this lesson is concerned primarily with refinement in human relaher own integrity or standards. Tions, which we call courtesy. Even as the Church has always encouraged personal refinement, so it has always encouraged courtesy in our relations with other people. One of the special problems in maintaining courtesy is that each human being is a little different from all others. As Latter-day Saints we tend to be very different in our views and principles from all who are not members of the Church. But even within the Church our personalities, interests, likes, and dislikes are very different. This is also true within the family: husbands and wives are individual personalities not exactly alike, brothers and sisters are different from each other, and parents and children don't see things exactly the same way. It is important that we recognize these differences and still maintain respect for individual human personality. The human personality is sacred, also tender, and all of us are sensitive. Hence all our relations with each other —both within the family and outside the family, both within the Church and outside the Church—should, within the lim- 873 NOVEMBER 1966 its of our principles and integrity, be as courteous and respectful as possible, encouraging the dignity of the human personality—even when 'we may disagree. This is the mark of refined, cultured, spiritual people who would pattern their lives after the example of Christ. As members of the Latter-day Saint faith, we will agree on fundamental doctrines and principles; but whether members of the Church or not, people will see many things differently in our vast and complex world. A part of courtesy is the freedom for people to pleasantly disagree—without rancor, without loss of respect, without resentment—in the family, in the neighborhood, in the classroom, even in politics. "THE EDUCATED GENTLEMAN" BY JOHN HENRY NEWMAN The special selection for emphasis in this month's lesson is parts of two essays by John Henry Newman, combined under the title "The Educated Gentleman." Newman (1801-1890) was one of the most eminent leaders in education and religion in nineteenth-century England. As a religious leader he wielded powerful influence from 1828-1843 as vicar of St. Mary's, the official church at Oxford University. In 1845 he left the Anglican Church and joined the Roman Catholic Church, gradually rising in prominence and appointment as a cardinal, in 1879. He was also a distinguished educational leader, writing many lectures and essays in which he outlined the goals of the "ideal university" and its product, the cultured gentleman. Between times he also wrote many other things, a74 including a novel and the worldpopular hymn, "Lead, Kindly Light." In his excerpts printed here, Newman argues that the primary. Purpose of education is to. Refine men into gentlemen, and then he defines the qualities of a gentleman. As one reads these excerpts he cannot help being impressed with the excellence of Newman's prose style. Newman was a brillant, gifted man who wrote superbly. His essays have the classical virtues of gracefulness, clarity, beautiful balance; and elegance in simplicity; moreover, his ideas are also very attractive. The cultured gentleman (or gentlewoman) he describes as the ideal human being, has many qualities that are admirable— tact, refinement, gentleness, patience, understanding and utmost courtesy. Such a person is concerned above all else about other people and avoids offending others at all costs. Surely we need to exercise these qualities in human relationships far more than most of us do. Many of the arguments, misunderstandings, quarrels, resentments, and hurt feelings that result from human friction could be avoided if people were more "gentlemanly" in their contacts with each other. Surely there is far too much rudeness and lack of tact in human relationships. Newman's essay is a lovely description of the refined, courteous man or woman of culture. Let us hear him in his own words: The Educated Gentleman From The Idea of a University by John Henry Newman A liberal education... Gives a man a clear conscious view of his own opinions and judgments, a truth in developing them, an eloquence in expressing them, and a force in urging them. It teaches him to see things as they are, to go right to the point, to disentangle a skein of thought, to detect what is sophistical, and to discard what is irrelevant. It prepares him to fill any post with credit, and to master any subject with facility. It shows him how to accommodate himself to others, how to throw himself into their state of mind, how to bring before them his own, how to influence them, how to come to an understanding with them, how to bear with them. He is at home in any society, he has common ground with every class; he knows when to speak and when to be silent; he is able to converse, he is able to listen; he can ask a question pertinently, and gain a lesson seasonably, when he has nothing to impart himself; he is ever ready, yet never in the way; he is a pleasant companion, and a comrade you can depend upon; he knows when to be serious and when to trifle, and he has a 'sure tact which enables him to trifle with gracefulness and to be serious with effect. He has the repose of a mind which lives in itself, while it lives in the world, and which has resources for its happiness at home when it cannot go abroad. He has a gift which serves him in public, and supports him in retirement, without which good fortune is but vulgar, and with which failure and disappointment have a charm.... Hence it is that it is almost a definition of a gentleman to say he is one who never inflicts pain.... The true gentleman in like manner carefully avoids whatever may cause a jar or a jolt in the minds of those with whom he is cast.. - his great concern being to make every one at their ease and at home. He has his eyes on all his company; he is tender towards the bashful, gentle towards the distant, and merciful toward the absurd; he can recollect to whom he is speaking; he guards against unseasonable allusions, or topics which may irritate; he is seldom prominent in conversation, and never wearisome... He has no ears for slander or gossip.... He is never mean or little in his disputes, never takes unfair advantage, never mistakes personalities oK sharp sayLESSON DEPARTMENT ings for arguments, or insinuates evil which he dare not say out. He observes the maxim of the ancient sage, that we should ever conduct ourselves towards our enemy as if he were one day to be our friend. He has too much good sense to be affronted at insults, he is too well employed to remember injuries... He is patient, forbearing, and resigned, on philosophical principles; he submits to pain, because it is inevitable, to bereavement, because it is irreparable, and to death, because it is his destiny. For Class Discussion What are the specific qualities of courtesy in human relations as identified by Newman that all people should cultivate? To what extent may and should these qualities be displayed within the family as well as outside the family? Discuss fully. Is there anything wrong with this "ideal" person as described by Newman? Are there times when each person needs to speak out in defense of his convictions and beliefs even at the cost of offending? Are there times when a person has an obligation to stand vigorously for truth and right and principle even though unpleasantness and anger or harm may result? Notes on Other Selections The remaining six selections are also very significant in exploring ideals and problems of courtesy in human relations. Undoubtedly most class leaders may want to use some of these in addi-. Tion to or in the place of the Newman essay. However, space does not here permit more than brief reference to the six selections, and class leaders will need to study them in Out of the Best Books, Volume II. The first selection is "'The Use of Force," a short story by William Carlos Williams. It dramatizes how a doctor, in a brutal psychological-physical violation of courtesy, loses emotional control and forces a young NOVEMBER 1966 girl to open her mouth so that he can examine her throat for diphtheria. The principal significance of the story is not the conflict with the girl but the loss of emotional control by the doctor, which ends—as such a loss of control often does—in a deterioration of human dignity as well as of courtesy. Class Discussion How might you have handled the situation? The next selection is "The Leader of the People," a beautifully written story by John Steinbeck. Here we see a family containing much love but also some serious problems of discourtesy. There is a stern and strong father who is too harsh and cold in his relationship with his son and is openly disrespectful to his fatherin-law. There is a mother who is much warmer, sweeter, and more loving, but who lacks the tact, wisdom, and strength necessary to guide the family as she would like. There is a lovable young boy who worships his grandfather as a story-telling hero, but who is caught between the tensions and conflicts within the family. There is a rough but wise farm-hand named Billy Buck. And there is an old grandfather of "granite dignity" who fascinates his grandson but annoys his son-inlaw by endlessly telling the same old tales of the past when he was "leader of the people." Altogether it is an excellent story exploring problems in human relationships within a family. Class Discussion Could the mother have done any- 876 thing more to ease the situation at that time? The third selection is a poem, "The Death of the Hired Man" by Robert Frost, which shows the contrasting warmth of increased courtesy. Again there is an old man who is pathetically in the way, and there is a difference of opinion between a husband and wife with the wife more sympathetic and understanding than the husband. This poem and the Steinbeck story invite close comparison to see what in the natures of the sad old man, the husband, and the wife result in more courtesy in the one selection than in the other. The fourth selection, ""My Last Duchess" by Robert Browning is a brilliant and world-famous poem (dramatic monologue) which penetratingly explores two personalities in marriage, and in doing so points up some problems: and weaknessess of which all married couples should be wary. The husband sees his late wife as flirtatious, frivolous, fickle, unappreciative, shallow, immaturely naive, and perhaps even unfaithful. But we can see her as gracious, friendly, warm, sensitive, and youthfully lovely. Similarly, the husband sees himself as admirable, a man to be honored, respected, even worshiped. But we see him as proud, snobbish, arrogant, haughty, egotistical, scheming, shrewd, selfish, materialistic, possessive, jealous, revengeful, and cruel. Also included are two poems by Ogden Nash— mostly for fun. Underneath the clever fun, however, there is in each poem a thread of seriousness that relates to courtesy. Note to Cultural Refinement Class Leaders: Lesson 2 for November in the Northern Hemisphere, April in the Southern Hemisphere (August 1966 Magazine). We call to your attention that the music on the Relief Society record which is to be considered as a part of Lesson 2 "Refinement Creates Beauty,'' is "Adagio for Strings." A commentary of this selection is also found on the record. Lesson 3 for January in the Northern Hemisphere, May in the Southern Hemisphere (October 1966 Magazine). We call to you attention that the picture 'The Bath'' (La Toilette) by Mary Cassatt, is to be considered as a part of Lesson 3 ''Humility Yields Strength."' A small reproduction of this painting appears in the September 1966 Relief Society Magazine, page 686. Os INTRODUCING As wx a) @ @ Here's a booklet that @ for the first time really @ (i S @ tells you how to plan and make an excitingly @ different Christmas tree! Ist time pinted Full color photos of trees. Most aponl @ ing ideas can be used by budget con- $] 00 scious famities. Thisbooklet tells all a @ about flocking, lights, tree selection, @ ornaments and complete trims. @ AS ADVERTISED IN HOUSE BEAUTIFUL MAG. @ coeccccoococeccoce @ Christmas Tree Ideas $ Post Office Box 6127 4 Salt Lake ity, Ut. 84106 e COOK ELECTRIC ee Pots and pans stay "'white glove'' clean If its electric, its better! UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY ROSE PARADE TOUR December 27 TEMPLE TOUR October 24 HAWAIIAN TOURS November 12 December 21 Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 877 @ preciated is that many of these refreshY Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin / (1/10 — 12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Relief Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.76 "Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library.. $2.00 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 outh | Be Ame ric a With W. Cleon Skousen Feb. 7 Departure MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR SOUTH AMERICAN TOUR. NAME MURDOCK ADDRESS STATE TRAVEL - HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK October 15 to 30 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Francisco Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Diego Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Soclety Magazine is In a handsomely bound cover. Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mall or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.... 55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 3 60 879 02 9 9 95 94 93 92 Mrs. Ann Crawford Jensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jennie Giles Sprague Monroe, Utah Miss Jemima Forster Mendon, Utah Mrs. Martha Patterson Head Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Adelia Cowley Gibson Orem, Utah Mrs. Olive Draper Anderson Nephi, Utah Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Sandra Anderson Young Richfield, Utah Mrs. Lillian Purdy Bagley Sacramento, California Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Monroe, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Holland Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Elsie Eleanor Oliver Wilcox Bridgeport, Nebraska Mrs. Mary Lewis Marshall Provo, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Sophia Walters Koehler Menlo Park, California Mrs. Charlotte Greenwood Hansen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ellen Swensen Johnson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ella Hoge Budge Boise, Idaho Mrs. Christine Petrea Peterson Kiesel Manti, Utah Mrs. Ellen Brown Berrett North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lillian Wakely Ashby Lund, Nevada Mrs. Elizabeth J. Ashby Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Emily Beckstrom Smith Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Zina Nielsen Cook Provo, Utah Mrs. Belle Wyler Lambourne Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs Amabel Rowell Clark Sydney, Australia Mrs. Clara Parkes Jones Taylorsville, Utah Mrs. Myrtle Bowcutt Dean Montpelier, Idaho Mrs. Elizabeth Simms Tucker Pasadena, California Mrs. Alice Brewer Bunderson St. Charles, Idaho Mrs. Martha Dean Cokeville, Wyoming Mrs. Hilda Kjlberg Olsen Hyrum, Utah Mrs. Mary Peterson Brown Washington, Utah Mrs. Keokee Richards Miller Uniontown, Ohio the finest in L. D. S. REading... Or buy now for Christmas gifts... OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol II by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 postpaid anywhere This new book, patterned after the successful first volume, is themed to '"'Love, Marriage, and the Family." The material will be used with the Cultural Refinement course. Full color illustrations enhance the choice literature and discussion materials prepared by Dr. Clark and Dr. Thomas. THAT THEY MIGHT KNOW THEE by Frances Carter Yost $2.25 This wonderful and uplifting book amplifies many of the stories of our scriptures that are only hinted at in the original. A scholarly fictional technique is used to recreate these tales in a faith inspiring manner. TEACH ME by Dorthea Christiansen Murdock $3.50 What began as a series of lessons for nursery-age children in Relief Society has now been expanded into a valuable book for teaching children in the home or at Church. Here is a collection of poems, stories, make-it projects, fingerplays and activities for use by mothers and teachers alike. Illustrated. = i = Deseret — Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake '| "Deseret Book City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, California COMPANY 92669. Send me: (0 OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. II 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY CO THAT THEY MIGHT KNOW THEE [] TEACH ME 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. —— ees — 7-2 ae 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! 3%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake R. S. Nov. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Your Beneficial Life dollars work for you—and your community. Every family with growing children needs shelter—both physical shelter from the elements and financial shelter from adversity. The dollars you invest in Beneficial Life insurance help provide both: first, of course by protecting your family's all-important income. And second, by helping many families to own their own homes. Currently Beneficial Life mortgage money is helping provide homes for more than 6,000 families—which would make up a city the BENEFICIAL LIFE Bi size of Tempe, Arizona or Covina, California! Snsurance Pompany >= © Virgil H Smith, Pres Salt Lake Cuty, Utah Magazine « DECEMBER 1966 Volume 53 Number 12 BEYOND JUDAEA'S BOUNDARIES Vesta P. Crawford "... For we... Have come to worship him...." Across the eastern land, it lies, the Magian path; Lost to memory, in midnight and in dawn; The shadows of the Wise Men vanished, Their footsteps in the sand forever gone. Unmarked upon the rocks, unknown to realm and sphere, Their star-bright journey and their marveling; And all the storied altars where they passed, The towers broken and the pillared cities lost. And yet the ancient quest, forever new returning, Shall mark a pathway for this present year, As eagerly we seek the lumined way of old, Beyond the wilderness, beyond the path of stone— As seekers for the Prince of David's house, Rejoicing in the promise, nor longer walk alone. The light that glowed upon the fallen citadels, Heralding the journey and the manger birth, Has shed its radiance on eterna! Hills And as a timeless star illumines all the earth. Oh, glorious light among the galaxies, Tell the men of earth—take his word to them— Come, let us worship altogether Within the gates of Bethlehem! ): 7 ' 7 The Cover: (Detail from 'Adoration of the Shepherds,'' by Murillo Transparency by Three Lions; Inc. Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret New Press Frontispiece: §§ 'Forever New Returning," Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts. Art Layout: @ Dick Scopes Illustrations: Hi Mary Scopes " TOM It makes me happy to read and see all kinds of things that are made by the sisters from different places—all the interesting articles in the Magazine. | am Navajo from Gallup, New Mexico, Toh-la-Kai Trading Post. We have two little girls, one eight months and the other four years old—such a wonderful family. Now | am moving to another place. Mrs. Stella Mae Platero Fort Worth, Texas How proud we are in Afghanistan to see our branch on the list of Relief Society organizations in the June issue of the Magazine. Though halfway around the world, and though our membership varies with the constant comings and goings of Government personnel, we are grateful for the lessons and for the beautiful Magazine that brings them to us. Leah Y. Bryson USAID/TB Afghanistan Our family appreciated the little story "Bird Dramas" written by Rose A. Openshaw, in the September issue of the Magazine. It expressed in an in: formative way the many _ interesting things that go on around us when we pause to observe. We thought it was especially well written and delightfully descriptive. The Potts Family Mesa, Arizona What a masterpiece! It is a masterpiece—the birthday congratulations "The Testimony of a Prophet,'' which you dear Relief Society officers have expressed in behalf of every member. Thank you sincerely for saying it for me. In addition, it is my testimony that not only is he a prophet, but President McKay is a great leader inspired of God for the present day. Lilly Engle Huntington, Utah 882 var aul Sar | have enjoyed The Relief Society azine for years in English, and now we have it in Spanish, | know many more sisters will be blessed. Had in our home a few months a young girl who was recuperating f surgery, and who had been stu the gospel with our Spanish-spea missionaries. She read The Relief ciety Magazine from cover to cover then expressed a desire to become member of Relief Society. She was tized into the Church at the end of week. We can already see the frui the Magazine in Spanish. Louisa On Houston, T In the August Relief Society Mag | was particularly impressed with article '"'Are We Seekers?" by H Hinckley Jones, perhaps because know the author, having had the ilege of being her student for past three years. This brilliant, m talented, and delightful woman is fine example of one who con seeks. Then, besides imparting to she teaches, both in Church cl! And at Pasadena City College, the wisdom and understanding she has found, she also stimulates others to seek, and guides them in their quest. Lael J. Littke Monterey Park, California Since the missionaries have provided me with a monthly copy of The R Society Magazine, | have become even more aware that the Church provides for growth in important aspects of this mortal life and in our eternal fife. | will marry a fine Latter-day Saint in a few months, and so | particul enjoy the timely household hints t experienced mothers in the Church sharing with the other sisters. Stories have inspired me at the time they have helped me to pra using the English language. Marion Disseldorf, The Relief Society magazine Volume 53 December 1966 Number 12 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Special Features 884 Keeping the Commandments of Our Eternal Father Joseph Fielding Smith 890 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1966 Hulda P. Young 904 The Breath of Life Fiction 892 Across the River Dorothy Clapp Robinson 898 A Star's Slim Light Alice Morrey Bailey 908 Tell Me of Love—Chapter 6 Rosa Lee Lloyd 9382 A Gift for My Love Myrtle Stowell Call General Features 882 From Near and Far 905 Woman's Sphere Ramona W.. Cannon 906 Editorial: The 136th Semi-Annual Church Conference 960 Birthday Congratulations The Home - Inside and Out Pictures Made From Christmas Cards, Anna Peck 914; Keep the Christmas Cards, Helen M. Peterson 915; Tin-Can Christmas Tree, Gertrude and Gail Terry 916; A Heritage of Danish Cookery, Dorothy J. Roberts 917; Winter Wonderland in Fullerton Stake, 918; Beaded Packages, Joy N. Hulme 920; El Paso Stake Relief Society Remembers Christmas with "The Perfect Gift," 922; The Home Decorated with a Christmas Welcome, 924; The Wise and Foolish Virgins, William Blake 928; Commentary on Painting, Floyd E. Breinholt 929; Quilting Is a Pleasure, 934. Lesson Department 935 Spiritual Living... Discipleship Roy W. Doxey 941 Visiting Teacher Message... "For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness..." Alice Colton Smith 942 Homemaking... Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Celestia J. Taylor 944 Social Relations... "Follow Thou Me" Alberta H. Christensen 951 Cultural Refinement... Diligence Ennobles Work Robert K. Thomas Poetry 881 Beyond Judza's Boundaries Vesta P. Crawford Lullaby For Jesus, Mabel Jones Gabbott 888; Flake and Star, Ethel Jacobson 891; Christmas Eve, Christie Lund Coles 904; For a New Home, Iris W. Schow 931; How Far? Rowena Jensen Bills 931; Returning, Eva Willes Wangsgaard 940; Only One Song, Alda L. Brown 950; Part of the Sequence, Bertha A. Kleinman 955; Remembering Faith, Enola Chamberlin 958; Late Born, Lael W. Hill 959. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1966 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20ca copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be sup-' plied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. heeping the Commandments of Gur Eternal Father President Joseph Fielding Smith Of The First Presidency [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 28, 1966] w My dear sisters, it is a privilege for me to speak to you at this conference, and I appreciate President McKay assigning me to this session. This is certainly a wonderful sight to think that you good sisters have come from all parts of the world to attend this conference. I congratulate you for your faith and your integrity and I want to say to you, we pray for you constantly. You are doing a wonderful work, and the Prophet certainly was inspired by the Spirit of the Lord to have such an organization as the Relief Society given to the Church. You have a great work to perform. We want you to know that the work you are performing BB4 is fully appreciated by the brethren of the Authorities of the Church. There is not a home in any part of the world where the Bible should not be found. There is not a home in which The Book of Mormon should not be found. I am speaking of Latter-day Saint homes. There is no home where the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price should not be. Don't keep them on the shelves or in the cupboard, but opened where they can easily be reached, that the members of the family might find access to them and sit down and read and study the principles of the gospel for themselves. KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF OUR ETERNAL FATHER I feel that many Latter-day Saints—our sisters as well as our brethren, are under condemnation before the Lord because he has given us so much pertaining to our present needs and our salvation, and yet the great majority of us, if I have the right understanding, don't study, and we don't hunt for these things and we don't know about them, and so we are in danger—danger of being led astray. We ought to live the truth, that is, the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That ought to be the choicest thing in all the world, and why not? These words are so beautiful here: "More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb" (Psalms 19:10). How many of us feel that way? Are they sweet to us like that? Well, sisters, if they are not, we have nobody to blame but ourselves. I will ask you this question, and you can answer it for yourselves. Who should have a better understanding of the fundamental principles of the gospel than the mother in the home? Well, I don't know of anybody. Why? Because she is with those little children of hers more than the father, if she is doing her duty as she ought to do, and they come to her with their questions. They come to her knee, and that is why she ought to instruct them. She could make a far better job of it than the father, and I am not excusing the father. It is as much his responsibility to see that the children are reared in light and truth as the Lord has said. The Lord has placed that responsibility upon us. He has made it so definite, and he also gave us a warning that it is the fathers and mothers of children who will have to answer if their children go wrong, if they have neglected these responsibilities. I said something about this in the Relief Society Conference in 1962, but it will not hurt to repeat some of it. Teach your children. Now, you good mothers, you should teach your children virtue, chastity, and they should be taught from their early childhood. And they should be made aware of the pitfalls and the dangers that are so prevalent throughout the world. We are living in a wicked world. When you read your newspapers you can discover that, and they give us but a small fraction of what goes on. Wickedness prevails. One of my good brethren who had the right to speak some years ago said: "Chastity is dead." I hope that isn't true of virtue. The tendency of the times is toward evil. I deplore, and I know my brethren do, the tendency in the world which Latterday Saints imitate and copy, as far as women are concerned, at least in their dress. You mothers in your homes, are you in the habit of letting little children run around scantily clothed because it is warm weather, practically naked or nearly so? And they grow up that way, that is, thinking that there is nothing wrong in exposing their bodies. What did the Lord give Adam and Eve garments for? To clothe themselves, and the Lord does not like nakedness. And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the 885 DECEMBER 1966 world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and our minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do? I am not finding fault with any of you good sisters here, and what I am saying maybe doesn't apply to a single one of you, because you are the women who are active. You are the women who are teaching and directing. I am not talking to you particularly, but to the sisters of all of the Church and to the fathers of all of the Church for that matter. When you go into the homes to visit, can't you do something to encourage the mothers to teach their children, to read the scriptures to them and bring them up as the Lord has said, in light and truth? You sisters have a glorious work to do laboring with the sisters of the Church and teaching them to keep the commandments of our Eternal Father. The Savior said: "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14: 15). Never in the history of the world has the need of keeping the commandments of the Lord been made manifest more than today. Now you good sisters are playing your part in-this great undertaking of bringing to pass righteousness and truth and a love of God in the hearts of the members of the Church. We ought to be grateful that we live in this day, notwithstanding all the fears and the troubles and the anxiety which come upon us because of conditions that prevail in the world. Our sisters are entitled just as much to the inspiration for their needs of the Holy Spirit as are the men. They are entitled to the gift of prophecy concerning matters that would be essential for them to know as it is for the men. When they pray, they should pray earnestly, expecting to have an answer to their prayers. The Lord will hear them, if they are earnest, true, just as well as he will the brethren. The women have a voice in the government of the Church. When someone is appointed to an office, we do not ask the men only to vote, but we ask the whole congregation. The women have a right to raise their hands. They have a right to speak. And it was by the inspiration of the Almighty that the Relief Society came into existence. When the Lord said that no person could be saved in ignorance, I think he meant women as well as he did men, and I think the women of the Church are under the obligation of studying the scriptures just as well as are the men. We are living in a day of turmoil, strife, and contention, I think nearly as bad as the world has ever seen. There may have been times worse, but I don't know of any other or reading of anything worse than what we are getting today—the violation of law, the selfishness of men, the greed, the ambitions, the turning away from faith in God. I think we are getting today, speaking of the world, in a very serious condition in relation to matters of that kind. Now it is my opinion, and I KEEPING THE COMMANDMENTS OF OUR ETERNAL FATHER have a very strong opinion of that to that effect, that this world is rapidly reaching the point when the cup of iniquity will be full. I think that day of wickedness is rapidly drawing upon us. We need the help of our sisters, you good sisters of the Relief Society, to help us teach the principles of eternal truth just as well as we do the elders of the Church. You can teach it in your organizations. Our sisters need to be taught, many of them, just as well as do our brethren. We have sisters in the Church who are losing their faith. We have sisters who love the world more than they do the kingdom of God. There is plenty of work to do for the sisters of the Relief Society. Today there is a condition existing in this country among our youth, and something ought to be done as far as we are concerned to see if we can't keep them on the path of "light and truth [and] forsake that evil one." I hope that our good sisters of the Relief Society will join us in this effort, instead of going out to join clubs to play cards and waste their time while their children, perhaps, roam the streets. Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God. We should remember that. But here is our trouble.... That wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the traditions of their fathers (D&C 93:39). But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth (D&C 93:40). This is the commandment to the members of the Church. Now our sisters of the Relief Society can help in this matter, as can the other organizations, to see that the children of the Latterday Saints obey counsel, understand the truth, walk in its light, are taught to pray, and have a love for their fellow men. We don't want our sisters, because of responsibilities given to them in the organizations of the Church, to have to neglect their families. We don't want any sister in the Relief Society to have to attend her meetings and at the same time leave her children to run the streets. If her Church duties require her attention, then she should see to it that some provision is made to care for her children, if she has children, that they might be protected and taught to pray and be faithful and true, and brought up in light and truth. That is our responsibility. No, we do not want any sister to neglect her responsibility, but we do not want her to have to do it at the sacrifice of children by neglect, leaving them to find bad company or to be idle. Let us see to it that our children, if we are called into the ministry in this regard, are provided for, that they have protection.: We are in a wicked world. I know there are good people in the world, yes. But the Lord says it is wicked, and if he says it is wicked, I think maybe I can, too, and I think it is getting more so every day. We have many responsibilities, but none of them to cause us to neglect our homes. Now, you sisters, when you go home, teach your good sisters in stakes and wards to have a little more interest in revelations the 887 DECEMBER 1966 Lord has given us pertaining to our exaltation, and may the Lord bless you. I am grateful for you and for the work you are doing and for your loyalty, and for the integrity of these good sisters who preside and who direct you in your labors. The Lord has called this organization, as you all know, by prophecy, into existence for the building up and strengthening of his kingdom, along with the other organizations. I am sure your good brethren, I being among them, love you for the great work SQBO LULLABY FOR JESUS Mabe! Jones Gabbott Sway more gently, cedar trees. Catch the almond-scented breeze That carries heavenly song to earth Of peace, good will, the Savior's birth. All bright stars that shine tonight Lend your brilliance to his light That guides the shepherds, say to them: "The Babe is born in Bethlehem." Cradled in a manger, Gentled by the hay, He is softly sleeping. It is Christmas day. Wrapped in swaddiing clothes In the stable there, Look, the mother Mary Has sunshine in her hair. Warmed by oxen's breathing On this most blessed morn, Unto all men everywhere The holy Child is born. Waken, buds on olive boughs, And springtime blossoms open now. Let all nature smile and say, "Christ is born to earth today." you are doing and the integri of your hearts. We pray for yo we uphold you, we want you walk in the light and the unde standing of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I know that President McKay would want me to leave his bl ing with you, along with min that the Lord will continue bless you good sisters in all y do, and may he bless you wi health and strength to carry this great Relief Society work, is my prayer, in the name of Jesus. Christ. Amen. Sister Jesse Evans Smith; President Joseph Fielding Smith; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; Elder Spencer W. Kimball; Elder S. Dilworth Young. The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1966 Hulda P. Young General Secretary-Treasurer ain a spirit of rejoicing and dedication Relief Society leaders from near and far assembled in Salt Lake City for sessions of the Relief Society Annual General Conference on Wednesday and Thursday, September 28 and 29, 1966. Included among them were devoted and able representatives from "the lands down under" of Australia, New Zealand, and Tonga, and from the first stake created in South America at Sao Paulo, Brazil; from the northlands of Norway, and from Germany; from Mexico and from most of the States in the United States, including Hawaii and Alaska. Special facilities provided simultaneous translation into the Spanish, Norwegian, Samoan, and German languages. For the first time a part of the conference was broadcast internationally via the Church-owned shortwave station in New York— WNYW. Portions of the Tabernacle sessions were aired in English and Spanish. These same broadcasts were also heard on KSL Radio beginning at midnight on October 9. Prior to the formal opening of the conference on Wednesday, 889 DECEMBER 1966 stake and mission Relief Society presidencies and their homemaking leaders viewed from early morning until in the evening Tuesday, displays of practical, useful, and beautiful homemaking articles, and attractive, economical items of clothing. The opening session of the conference was on Wednesday morning at 9:30 in the Tabernacle on Temple Square, at which inspiring music was presented by the San Juan Stake Singing Mothers from Southern Utah. President Belle S. Spafford, who conducted all of the Tabernacle sessions, gave the opening message of the conference, which was the report of the status of Relief Society based on the 1965 annual reports from stakes and missons, together with pertinent instructions, guidelines, and cautions regarding the conduct of the work of the organization. Moving messages were then heard from Irma Helena Arduino, the Portuguese-speaking Relief Society President of the new Sao Paulo Stake in Brazil, and Vola O. Mauger, Relief Society President of the new Adelaide Stake in Australia. Inspiring and significant counsel and direction were given to the stake and mission leaders assembled by Elder Thomas S. Monson of the Council of Twelve, Chairman of the Adult Correlation Committee, and by Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the Twelve who is an Adviser to Relief Society. On Wednesday afternoon, a capacity crowd filled the Tabernacle and overflowed into the Assembly Hall for the 2 o'clock session for Relief Society members and the general public. The 890 principal speaker at this session was President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency and long-time Adviser to Relief Society. President Spafford and her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, also addressed this session. Sister Mary R. Young, represented the General Board in a talk. A large combined chorus of Singing Mothers from the Cascade, North Seattle, Puget Sound, Seattle, Seattle East, Tacoma, and Vancouver Stakes sang gloriously at this session. Stake and mission leaders were warmly received at a_ cglorful reception Wednesday evening in the Relief Society Building by General Board members. President Spafford received the guests in a beautiful Korean gown which had been presented to her by the Relief Society sisters at the time of her recent visit to Korea. On Thursday morning, separate departmental sessions were held at various locations in the city for presidencies, secretarytreasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, visiting teacher message leaders, homemaking leaders, and _ spiritual living, social relations, and cultural refinement stake and mission leaders. In each of these sessions valuable specific help was given regarding the responsibilities of the respective callings through impressive dramatizations, verbal instruction, demonstrations, and other types of teaching presentations. The concluding session of the conference was held in the Tabernacle on Thursday afternoon, at which Elder Gordon B. Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE delivered a moving address, followed by a delightful presentation, "Speaking of Malinda," written by Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board. The concluding talk of the conference was by Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of Twelve, also an Adviser to Relief Society. His powerful and heartwarming message together with the other inspired messages of the conference, implanted in the hearts of the sisters a feeling of gratitude for the blessings and privileges that are theirs, and a greater resolve to use their time and talents even more productively in discharging their leadership responsibilities, in strengthening their own homes, and in helping, more effectively, in the work of building the kingdom. Immediately following the last session of the conference, Relief Society members and the general public were invited to remain in the Tabernacle and attend a special brief service commemorating the completion of the Relief Society Centennial Memorial, which had been initiated a quarter of a century ago under the leadership of General Relief Society President Amy Brown Lyman and her Board. President Spafford related the history and significance of the memorial, a campanile housing the so-called Nauvoo Temple Bell, to honor the founding of Relief Society and in recognition of the honored position of women in the gospel plan. President Hugh B. Brown of the First Presidency spoke briefly. Then, with the tones of the historic bell resounding over Temple Square, those assembled retired to the site of the bell tower between the Tabernacle and the Assembly Hall in a colorful autumnal setting where the combined Singing Mothers Chorus from the Northwest rendered a selection, and a closing prayer was offered by Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve and Chairman of the Temple Square Committee. (The Report and Official Instructions and the talks given by the General Presidency were carried in the November issue of the Relief Society Magazine.- President Joseph Fielding Smith's talk in this issue, and the addresses by Elders Harold B. Lee, Marion G. Romney, Gordon B. Hinckley, and Thomas S. Monson, and Sister Mary R. Young will appear in early issues in 1967.) By FLAKE AND STAR Ethel Jacobson This evanescent flake, % This crystal avatar Spiraling to earth, a Is flawless as a star— Miraculously wrought As infinitudes of spheres Dancing celestial sarabands Through frosty light-years. 891 Across the River ws Macy was drawing a reindeer on the blackboard. She stopped abruptly. '"'Are—are you sure?" "How come you didn't know? Didn't you know that my father and Owen Collin were pulled from the river last evening more dead than alive?" Bruce, a fourteen-year-old pupil, became more excited with each word. "You think anyone else is stupid enough to try crossing when my father can't do it?" Macy Bowman was teacher for the one-room school in District #214. Bruce Fraser had been kept in to finish his work. Instead, he was chewing his pencil and wrecking her plans. She dropped to a chair by her desk. She glanced to the windows where, after a brief pause, rain 892 Dorothy Clapp Robinson was playing paddle-ball. Against the panes. "What about the men who went for the tree, how will they get back?" "Didn't go. It is thirty miles to the hills—and no one around here does things ahead of time. - It can't be helped. Rain's still falling; Gila's still raising...." "Rising,'"' Macy corrected. ".. And," Bruce ignored the interruption, "if the rain stopped now we couldn't cross the river for a spell." "But the tree? I ordered candles and decorations for it, and they are certainly waiting at the post office." "Oh, getting the tree isn't going to count much one way or the other." And that, Macy thought, was the very reason she must have a beautiful Christmas tree. Beauty was a thing apart from the lives of these children. Some of them could not remember ever having had a Christmas tree. She must give them an evening for memories of something beautiful. A mere three miles separated her from the fulfillment of her plans. Three miles and an ugly river. Both the post office and store were east across the river. Everything was across the river, except this small community of scorched houses. There were no lawns, no shade trees, no public buildings, except this room which also served as a church. The people lived by the whims of the river. Macy returned to the conversation about the river. "Can't anything be done to make sure there will be a crossing?" "Why, my father has been trying for years to get a dam built at the gooseneck where there is a natural reservoir." "How would that help? We would still have to cross." "It won't stop all flooding, but it would hold most of the water for the crops. Should have gone Saturday. It was raining then, but the river could be crossed," Bruce explained. "Yes, but who would have known rain would be coming down in sheets on Monday?" "Anyone who lives here could have guessed it." The rain was still slewing fast and hard when Macy left the schoolroom. She bent her head against the force of it. Her thoughts darted crazily about. There must be some way of getting a tree and her packages from ACROSS THE RIVER the post office. Besides candles and. Decorations, she had ordered a small present for each pupil. She spoke to Lucia Egbert, her landlady's daughter, about it. "What Jud can't do, no one can do. Better put your party off until the river is down." "How long will that be?'' Macy asked. "Who knows? Something will come up, and the children will forget all about it. Just have the program you have planned." "T don't want them to forget about it. I promised them a tree, and I must get one for them." If faith could move mountains, Macy thought, why could it not provide her with a tree, or means of getting one? ALL night the rain continued to fall, sometimes in house-shaking gusts, then thinned to a drizzle. Morning struggled hard to announce its arrival. Macy splashed through water and mud to reach the schoolhouse. The paths had been washed away. The room smelled damp and musty. She built a small fire in the seldom-used stove. The fire would help to kill the musty odor and dry the pupils' caps and coats. During the noon recess, Macy heard the older pupils discussing the flood in comparison with the other floods they remembered. "This is a lot worse than the one the year Mama died," Bruce remembered, "'and she died because they couldn't get her to a doctor before it was too late." When dismissal time came, Macy knew she had to make a decision. If the residents did not know of a way, certainly she could not think of one. 893 rd DECEMBER 1966 "I'm sorry," she began, hurrying lest she lose 'control of her emotions, "we cannot have our party as planned. You all know why." "You promised." Little Angie Oliver laid her head on her desk and started to sob.. "You promised," the phrase became a chorus. "What's the matter with you kids?" Bob Richen tried to be heard. "You expect her to fly across the river? She is not magic." Then, clear and most emphatic above the other voices, came the voice of Bruce Fraser. "I thought you were different. You talk big about doing things, but you are like all the others. When the going gets tough you quit." He snatched his coat and went out, slaraming the door behind him. Awed by such insolence, the pupils sat rigid. They avoided Macy's eyes. The damp air that came through the opened door made her shiver. Some of the children rose to leave. "Wait." The pupils resumed their seats. Macy looked to the windows. The view was anything but encouraging. Yet.... "Bruce was right," she began slowly, "I have been teaching you that circumstances can be conquered...." "But you didn't know about the Gila." Helva Justensen spoke in her defense. ""We know. Why, I've never seen an electric light." Macy waited for silence. "I'm going to stay by my promise. We will have a tree. You are dismissed." The pupils went quietly to the door, but once outside, they whooped with glee. When the last sound had died away, Macy 894 dropped to her chair. Her desperation was too deep for tears. She must find some way of performing a miracle. Jud Fraser had said the community would prosper when the men learned to pull together and use the means that nature had provided. What was she overlooking? Mlorninc. Came, and Mrs. Egbert reported the Watkins family had moved to higher ground. That blotted out every chink of light Macy had seen yesterday. Bruce was waiting on the schoolhouse steps. "T came to apologize," he told her, then, "where are you going to get a tree?" "There must be a way—there just must be." A gleam lighted the boy's eyes. "If I get a tree, can you get the other things?" A click of warning startled Macy. "Bruce, don't you try crossing the river." "No, Ma'am. I told you it can't be done." "Then where will you get a Christmas tree?" "J — I have an idea. Do you say yes?" "Yes, if your father approves." Instantly, the boy was on his way, running and splashing mud all over the legs of his overalls. He had his idea for getting the tree. Now she must have one for getting the "other things." And suddenly there it was. If she used Bruce to produce a tree why not use — the parents? Have the men make presents for the boys, the women for the girls. This was Tuesday, and the Christmas party was to be Friday evening. Not much time, but it must be done. She went directly to the home of the president of the school board. Oh, no. No. No. The time was much too short and some of the men were not handy with their hands. Macy would not argue. "Unless a man wants his son to be the only one not receiving a present he had. Better get busy. Help each other. Have them at the schoolhouse tomorrow forenoon. Belts, tool chests, bows and arrows, anything." The women were more easily persuaded. They were accustomed to meeting such demands. | "Our resourees are at rock bottom," Mrs. Hunter told her, "but we will find something." She looked critically at Macy. "Since you have none of your own, suppose you provide a present for little Angie Oliver and the two Watkins girls." She laughed outright at the surprised look on Macy's face. "Angie's mother is ill, and the Watkins family has just had to move to _ higher ground, so they are disorganized. Mrs. Watkins can't sew anyway. Who is going to furnish the Santa Claus suit?" "Surely, someone has one." Macy hadn't thought that far. "No, Susie Fraser used to have one, but it was old and Jud burned it after she died. There has been no occasion touse one since then. But Mandy Collin has just dyed some flour sacks for quilt linings. You might get her to use them for a Santa suit instead." With dragging feet, Macy walked the mile and a half to the Collin home, but she found that Mandy was adamant. "T need them for my quilts. I sell my quilts to the miners. I am not interested in any Christmas ACROSS THE RIVER parties, anyway. I have no children, you know." Macy answered thoughtfully. "Santa Claus will leave a lovely memory with the children." But Macy had to admit defeat. The way back to Mrs. Hunter's was endless. She was cold, tired, and her head throbbed. "Don't give up," Mrs. Hunter told her. "I will talk to Mandy, but she doesn't often give in." At her boarding house, Lucia Egbert met her at the door. "Come in, for pity's sake. You look like a thoroughly drowned angel. Where in the world have you been in this downpour?"' "Hunting the Christmas spirit, and you are to supply a generous portion of it." "The only way I can create the Christmas spirit is to have it first myself, and the only way to give me the Christmas spirit is to give me Jud Fraser — as a present." In spite of the lightness of her words they held undertones of despair. WELL," she went on, as Macy stared at her, "why do you think I am hanging around here when I could be teaching in a place where a river doesn't call the turns? It may be if you pull this party off. Successfully, the men will realize they can do other things together, like agreeing with Jud and the engineers who 'have planned the dam." "I wish I had the power," Macy answered, "but right now the district needs your help. Get some older girls to help you and make cookies and candy." "Just like that! Where do we get the sugar? I doubt if there are five pounds in the entire town." 895 DECEMBER 1966 "Use honey or molasses."' Macy hurried to her room. She was not going to listen to logic. The entire party would fall through if she did. Her head was whirling, and she wanted nothing so much as to lie down and forget Christmas and everything connected with it, but she must be sure of presents for little Angie and the Watkins girls. To choose for Angie was easy. Angie had never had a new pencil. Where she got the stubs that cramped her little fingers, Macy did not know. Luckily, Macy had two new ones. She tied a blue ribbon around one for Angie. She went through her possessions, but found nothing appropriate for the two little girls. In despair, she took a ribbon sash that belonged to her formal and cut two lengths from it. She tied them in hair bows, labeled them, and _ laid them on her dresser. Then, weary beyond words, she prepared to go to bed. Macy went to sleep almost immediately, but an hour later she awakened, and the events of the day, the problems she faced, though reduced by the promises she had exacted, raced over and over through her mind. Many times as the night lingered on, she dropped to her knees, and her tears and prayers mingled. Toward morning Macy fell into a troubled sleep. She dreamed the water was lapping. At the schoolhouse steps, and she was trying to sweep it back with a broom. Out in the current, Bruce was swimming toward her. In one hand he. Clutched a small fir tree; then, just as he was about to reach her outstretched hands, an undertow of the stream caught and swept him and the tree away. B96 Macy awakened suddenly, hearing herself calling his name. Could the dream mean he had failed to find a tree? She could hear the wind and the rain beating about the house. She tried to get up, but she was too weak. Later, Mrs. Egbert came in with a steaming cup of ginger tea. "If you drink enough of this and stay covered, we might break your fever so you can go to the Christmas program." Then she added, "If there is one." "T must get up and help." "Lucia is handling the children, and if anyone can get work out of the men, Jud Fraser can —that is why he isn't liked, he is too much of a pusher — but don't take that for a promise. Just resign yourself to the fact that you have done everything you can." Fripay morning, Macy awakened to see the sun shining. She was so excited she sprang out of bed and rushed to the window, but her legs were made of rubber. When Mrs. Egbert brought her breakfast she was in bed, but sitting up. "How are things going? What have the...?" "All we can do now is wait and see. It is a beautiful day, and that should mean something. Jud is coming in his buggy to take us to the party." The day was endless, but the fact that she was powerless to change anything, gave Macy a great respect and understanding for the people of the community. When defeat met them on every hand, it was inevitable that they should become apathetic. When Jud came for her and Mrs. Egbert, he said Lucia had everything in hand, and in the schoolroom there was standing room only. For the first time in weeks, the sky was clear. From a patch of deep blue, the evening star shone with soft brilliance, dimming the light of stars clustered behind it. There was a silence, too, a hush of nature that was broken only by the muffled roar of the river. Macy was overwhelmed with a tingling spirit of worship. Christmas was in the air, here, as well as across the river. A lighted lantern had been hung on each side of the schoolroom door, and a lighted lantern hung in each window. The soft light laid a hint of mystery over the room. As soon as Macy and Mrs. Egbert had taken their seats, Lucia gave a signal, and all the parents and all the children united in singing "It Came Upon a Midnight Clear." There were so 'many strong voices, and they sang with such unfeigned devotion, a listener would think they hadn't a care in the world. After the prayer, the curtains which had been strung across the front of the room parted, and Macy gasped with relief. There were exclamations of surprise and delight from all parts of the room; a boy whistled, and two little girls danced up and down. Even the grownups were moved by the enchanting sight. "Where did Bruce get the tree?" Macy whispered. "Mesquite."' Mrs. Egbert's eyes twinkled. It couldn't be — it just could not be. No mesquite ever grew in-the shape of an evergreen. She looked about for Bruce. His back ACROSS THE RIVER was turned, but Bob smiled at her. His grin gave her a clue, and she looked more closely at the tree. It was tied, she decided, in the shape of a cone, but she could not see a rope. She could not see a leaf of mesquite. Every limb, every twig, every strand of rope was covered with rich clusters of mistletoe. The white —how could she have overlooked the impact of the white berries, but then she had never seen such clusters of them. No candles, no tinsel, nothing in the packages in the post office across the river could add one iota of beauty to the tree. What work they had put into the making! Boys, with an imagination that produced that tree, would never be stopped by a mere river. Macy knew she would never again see a Christmas tree half so beautiful. Not to detract from the beauty of the tree, presents, brought by the parents, were exhibited on desks at each side of the tree. Macy had prayed for the power to create this glorious experience, but the parents and the children had outdone her wildest dreams. When Santa came in, flaunting his red suit, Mandy Collin turned and looked at her with a flushed smile. She saw little Angie reach for her pencil and hug it close against her face. The song "Silent Night" and the fervent prayer of thanks lifted each person into full fellowship with the words of Jesus when he said "Love one another, as I have loved you." It was reflected on the face of each child and each adult. A miracle had been brought to pass; and Bruce —would receive his thanks later. 897 Alice Morrey Bailey @ Luke McKean knew the situation was of his own making, and a part of the large folly which had dogged him intermittently for the fourteen years he had been a foreign correspondent for Life—going home for Christmas. Well, here he was, right in the middle of Christmas tree land, with the Christmas landscape covered by the snow' which bogged down his rent-a-car and shut him off in the wilds of the mountains between Wyoming and Utah. He had been warned in Denver, where his plane was grounded, and again in Cheyenne, but he had pushed stubbornly on, his urge to get to Salt Lake City his only companion. He had come too near his goal to give up now, even though it was far into the afternoon toward Christmas Eve. He got out of the car again, scooped snow, pulled sagebrush, and tore at the rocks with his 898 heels. He tried again and again, rocking the car, finally, in desperation, gunning it until the wheels spun, but it was no use; he was hopelessly stuck. He could run out of gas and then not be able to heat the car. He could run the battery down by playing the radio for storm warnings. It was irony to come so near and not make it; it was folly to try, because there was no home to go to for Christmas. He could go only to the little house where he used to live with all his hope for the future—little David and the promise of many more like him, and Mary, his wife, who had waited out the war there, both of them cut off in one blinding second of slippery ice, crashing metal, and splintering glass, with himself the only anguished survivor. He could go back only to the memories he had run from these fourteen years, the bitterness of all that was lost, not to the warmth of holding Mary in his arms, the joy of companionship with a small boy. It was silly. What could he do when he got there? Walk up to a strange house where he used to live and knock? Then what? Suppose it were vacant, or tor down? If someone came to the door what could he say? They might think him crazy, even call the police. For a grown man who could surely consider himself a cosmopolite after his wanderings about the globe, a newsman stripped of illusions, to be the victim of his own emotions was outlandish, but there it was. Too well he knew the craving would return again and again in some strange land across the world. This was the only way to, at last, lay an old ghost. If he didn't make it, so what? It was not his birthplace; in reality not even his home. Mary had come to Kearns with him during his soldiering days and he had hopped off from there, leaving her to wait in Salt Lake City while he covered the European arena with his camera after a promotion through Stars and Stripes, the serviceman's newspaper. When he got back Mary was sold on the place. "T like the people and the climate, and it's the place where I want to rear our children," she had said. "You going to be a Mormon?" Luke had teased, but she had answered him soberly. "TI think I am, and I want David to be one, too." One place was as good as another to Luke, who had no family ties—no religious ones, either. He was a photographer, and surely the vicinity offered an endless A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT parade of subjects. Luke had thought seriously of opening a studio. The loss of his wife and son in such a cruelly short time had catapulted him into his present occupation. His present assignment was "Native Son Rediscovers America," but it had not been like coming back to the America of Washington and Lincoln, the California Gold Rush, the covered wagon and sage brush, nor even of the war years. It was like coming to a new land, even a new planet—the coming true of the science fiction of his boyhood. Luke had traveled east and west and north and south, 11,000 miles in the last three months. When he had come home from the war he had draped himself over the shiprail and watched the Old Girl rise slowly out of the horizon, and he had _ blubbered like a baby, not alone, either. This time he left Scotland by jet in the dawn, had lunch comfortably in New York. He could have seen the sun set in Denver, slept in San Francisco. He had gone through his assignment in excitement and wideeyed wonder. He had been awed by dams and dynamos, automation and communications, electronics and nucleonics. He had been amused by gadgets, amazed by the surrealist nightmare of freeways in downtown Los Angeles, where four layers of traffic sped in diverse directions. He had used striped tooth-paste and taken "helicabs" from hotel to airport, used vending machines that changed folding money, and tuned his TV by push-button from across his hotel rooms. But what about the people? 899 DECEMBER 1966 Luke was still not satisfied. He had talked to literally hundreds of them, but only superficially, in spite of his penetrating newsman's questions. You can't talk to people on the run, and that was what Americans were—even as he had been throughout the last three months. Whole families were driven by schedules, from the tiniest tot with her dancing classes to the busy executive with split-second appointments. The clock was the most important instrument in the nation. Luke had seen the physical and the intellectual America, but he hadn't yet been fully exposed to its spirit and its heart. Were the critics right? Was it true that America was materialistic, in pursuit of money, possessions, instead of values, fun, instead of joy? What were the young Americans really like? Luke had a personal stake in his quest. If his son had lived, what would he be like? Luke was almost afraid to know. How long he pondered he did not know, but, all at once, bobbing up from behind rises, disappearing in the low places, a coming toward him car Was 900 through the storm, its lights on, although it was not yet dark. Luke got out and stood beside the road. He thought amusedly that if he were a modern wise man in pursuit of a nebulous dream, here, at least, was a modern star. The youth who unfolded himself from the Volkswagen was as tall as Luke himself, and Luke was a tall man. "You stuck, sir? Can I give you a hand?" "You surely can," said Luke gratefully. They worked for half an hour to get Luke's car out, but it was no use, the young man applying himself as if he were personally involved, and not giving up until Luke finally said: "I'd better go into town, if you'll give me a ride, and have a tow car out tomorrow. My name's Luke McKean." "And I'm Peter Brent," the young man responded, quickly stripping off a wet glove to shake hands. Once inside the car Luke had time to study the youth in the faint light from the dashboard in the growing dark, to watch his skillful manipulations of the car through the storm on the slippery road. He had features as classic as those on the head of a coin, a bright, intelligent, open countenance. Luke had to fight down a growing feeling of kinship with the boy, to keep objective, because here was his probable last chance before a new assignment, a captive specimen at his disposal for probably two hours. "What brings you out on a night like this?'"' he began. "My girl. She's a college student at the Brigham Young University, lives in Evanston. I took her home for the holidays. What brings you out, sir?" "Something as elusive as the Holy Grail,' Luke answered eva-. Sively. He had no intention of being the interviewee, or of tipping his hand, and it wasn't his habit to lie. "I have been trying to figure out how old you are." "Nineteen." "I would have guessed a year or two older," Luke said. Nineteen! Just the age David would have been. If he had lived what would he have been doing now? It was a little shock to realize he had always thought of David as a small boy. "What do you do—work, go to school?" he asked, trying to hide his growing eagerness. "T'm in my second year of college." "Aren't you a little young for that?" "Maybe. I was lucky. One of the few who went into college instead of my last year of high school. It's an experiment. Gave me a lift on my major." "Which is?" "Science, of course," he said, as if it were all one word of a foregone conclusion. "T hear the graduates in scientific fields can go to work at top salary when they graduate." "That's a point," admitted the boy. Probably the most important point, Luke thought, if the critics were right. "You'll be out of college by the time you're twenty-one." "Not exactly," said Peter. "I have a call to go on a mission for my Church. I'm leaving as soon as school's out in June—be gone two years." "Then you're a Mormon. Don't you resent having your school A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT broken into? Is it mandatory? Don't you dare disobey? Would it not be better to wait until you are through college?" Luke had met briefly a few missionaries from the Latter-day Saints Church in his travels; he had attended a soul-stirring concert of the Tabernacle Choir when it toured Europe, and he was conversant with the tenets from his brief stay after the war. He had never met the question head-on, remembering Mary's early desire, nor had he cast it from his mind. "You have the wrong slant, Mister,"' Peter said, a little nettled. "I want to go. I've long planned on it. My only worry was that I might not be called. It just so happens it fits in with my plans for school—my lower division behind me. When I get back I want to go all out and not stop until I get my Ph. D." "Well, then, you are a young man with a direction," Luke said, and added as a goad, "if it is the right direction. How do you know it is?" QUESTIONING was Luke's business; he was past master at separating information from individuals, and he had more than a small smattering of science, philosophy, and comparative religion. He questioned Peter through the skies and around the globe, parrying him at the edge of sword-sharp wit, and backing him into verbal corners. He had the young man at the rapier point of logic many times, but always Peter acquitted himself, sometimes sending the weapon flying from Luke's hand. He didn't always have the proof, but he knew the basic principles, and he warmed to the fight, thought 901 DECEMBER 1966 through each question with deliberation and logic. Peter's God was as big as the universe, with creation unlimited, love unbounded, yet he had certain definite characteristics, and Peter knew he lived with a passion Luke thought had died with the last apostle. There were conviction and authority in his voice. "We have the answer to all the troubles in the world." Luke frankly envied him. On other matters he was just as sure. No, Russia would never conquer America. No other nation ever would, so long as it was a Christian nation and held fast to its principles of freedom. It was a chosen land, a promised land, even the Garden of Eden. Science was wonderful, as far as it went. Scientists were on the way, faster now than ever, and when they learned everything there was to know they would know the vast laws of God. Luke could not disagree. By the time they came to Parley's Canyon, with the city spread before them like a lap of multi-colored jewels from the mountains to the lake, Luke was satisfied about Peter, but there were still some riddles. Of what was he a product? "You'd better drop me off at a convenient hotel," he said, dreading the thought of another Christmas Day in a hotel. "Not a chance," said Peter. "My family would never forgive me—a stranger alone on Christmas." They drove to a large, comfortable looking home, not in the most deluxe district, nor yet in the less-than-average, and Luke told himself this was good; it 902 would further his research. In truth, he had to know more about Peter, not lose touch with him. If David had lived would he think as Peter thought, live as Peter lived? The house was blazing light from every window in true, outgoing Christmas spirit, and Luke was aware of a_ sudden little feeling of dread. Could it be jealousy? They had talked of everything under the sun_ except Peter's parents. Somehow Luke had avoided the subject. Was it because he was identifying this boy with David, and himself as Peter's father? At least, at the door, there was a brief reprieve. "T've brought home one of the wise men," the boy told the flushed, motherly woman who came to the door. "Aunt Mel— Uncle Dick, is it all right if Mr. McKean spends Christmas with us?" "More like one of the stupid men," amended Luke, not giving them a chance to say no. "Are you sure I'm not putting you out —a stranger on a holiday?" "You won't be a stranger long, not with this bunch. Peter, put Mr. McKean in the little bedroom, and then come to the table, both of you. I haven't time for introductions. The gravy's boiling over." Luke was overwhelmed. If this was the real heart of America, it was a pulsing one—a big family, pretty girls, another grown boy putting chairs around the dining table, steaming food being brought from the kitchen. It was a kaleidograph of sparkle and movement—a lighted Christmas tree which touched the ceiling, flashing with light and color, the floor underneath heaped with gaily wrapped packages. Oh, this was the kind of Christmas of which Luke had dreamed! By the time they were all seated, he had slipped into the family so easily he knew all of them—Aunt Mel, Uncle Dick, Peter's cousins, Sue and Virginia and Mary Ellen, and Richard, who was Peter's age. Where exactly did Peter fit into this household? '"'Where's Mother?" Peter said. "She went to give her 'Star' lecture," Aunt Mel answered. "By the way, she was worried about you." "Don't kid me," said Peter callously. "She never worried about me a minute in her life." Well, here it is, thought Luke. No family loyalty—perhaps divorce. "Good reason,' Aunt Mel said complacently. ""You never gave her cause." "Speaking of angels," someone said. The door opened and a shower of parcels dropped from the hands of the smartly dressed, slim woman at the door. Peter jumped to help her. There was no doubt it was his mother—the same feminine counterpart of his classic features, the same bright intelligent face. "You're just in time, Jennifer. Virginia, get Aunt Jen's plate from the oven." It was some time later, after all the introductions and explanations had been made, the dishes A STAR'S SLIM LIGHT done and the children gone— Richard to see his girl, Sue and Peter caroling, and the other two subbing-for-Santa, that Luke was able to make his way to Jennifer's side before the fireplace. "I'm impressed with your son. Is he a special dispensation?" "No, run of the mill. It's hard to tell him and his friends apart at this age. They dress the same, have the same goals, talk the same." "Really?" marveled Luke. "I have been wondering about his father." Luke couldn't refrain from the question. "His father was killed in the war. Peter never knew him, but he is surprisingly like him. Mel and Dick took me in when I was so broken up, and somehow we just stayed. It has been a marvelous arrangement—Peter got the normal background of a large family life, and I was able to be part father and mother to him. Now, what about you? What brings you to Salt Lake City?" Luke told her everything without reserve, because she was the kind of listening, perceiving woman to whom a man could talk. "And the house?" she queried. "When are you going up and -knock on that door?" Luke pondered. Where had the desire gone? "T know now what it was," he said at last. "And it wasn't so silly after all. I wanted to know what David would be like if he grew up as his mother wanted him to grow. I found out, talking to your son. That was the door. I have already found it. I have already knocked!" He looked into Jennifer's eyes, and the door swung wide and wider. 903 The Breath of Life The National Tuberculosis Association (United States of America) a oe 5 id ah. < GREETINGS "iP ( c er Holidays have a way of catching you off guard. It sometimes seems that before you even finish your Fourth of July celebration, you're busy making your Christmas shopping list. That's just the way time seems to fly for those who work and play hard 365 days of the year. But the year goes much slower for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. They can't play or work hard because they suffer from tuberculosis or another one of the serious respiratory diseases that threaten the life and breath of us all. Emphysema and chronic bronchitis are lung diseases that are increasing in alarming, epidemic proportions in the United States. Deaths from these diseases have doubled in the last five years. Emphysema has grown to be the second leading cause of disability in the nation. It has medical scientists worried because the cause and cure of emphysema are not known. There is some progress, however, in rehabilitating those who have the disease, particularly in the early stages. Your annual Christmas Seal Campaign is an important source of funds that support tuberculosis case finding and treatment, and the health education and research needed to combat these breath-robbing illnesses. When you get your Christmas Seal letter, please answer it immediately, and then be generous also in using Christmas Seals on all the greeting cards, letters, and gift packages that you mail out. It is all right if the holidays sneak up on you, but don't let crippling respiratory diseases catch you off guard. Remember Christmas Seals and protect your breath of life. ——<) CHRISTMAS EVE Christie Lund Coles | change the linen on the bed | see the tinsel's silver strings And think of him And hear again the tale Who had no place Of glorious night, To lay his head. Of ancient things. | trim the tree with baubles bright | kneel at last on bended knee And think of her To whisper that Who saw the star | think of him Pristine and bright, With sanctity. 904 Mrs. J. R. Hoag, a Latter-day Saint of Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada, has recently been appointed a member of the Canadian Housing Design Council. She will also be the National Council of Women representative. For the past eleven years Mrs. Hoag has been chairman of the Regina city planning commission, and has held other positions of civic responsibility, including vicechairman of the provincial zoning appeal board and a member of the Regina local housing authority. She is also president of the Pioneer Village corporation and chairman of the Young Women's Christian Association building committee. Ilvamae Applegate, Ph. D., is president of the National Education Association of the United States. Dr. Applegate, reared on a North Dakota farm, has been described as 'a homemaker, seamstress, journalist, avid reader, author, and optimist.'' She received her Ph. D. Degree from the University of Minnesota, and is currently dean of the School of Education at St. Cloud (Minnesota) State College, the only woman dean of education in the United States. Edna Snow Cannon (Mrs. Douglas Q. Cannon) was elected mayor of Circleville, Utah in 1965, for a term of four years. Her Honor was born in the mountain village of Pine Valley, Utah. She attended Brigham Young University, and received her Ph. D. From the University of Chicago. She is a Fellow in the Utah Academy of Sciences and is vice-president of the State Board of Education. Ramona W. Cannon Anni Albers has written a delightful and beautifully illustrated book "On Weaving'' (Wesleyan University Press). Hand weaving, the use of various looms, the basic weaves, and the history of weaving are discussed. ''Simplicity,'' Mrs. Albers comments, ''is not simpleness but clarified vision.... An orderliness that is toa obvious cannot become meaningful in this superior sense that is art. The organization of forms, their relatedness, the proportions, must have a quality of mystery."' Alice Phillips (Mrs. John Alton Phillips) is a member of the Mississippi State Legislature. A former junior editor of a leading fashion magazine in New York City, she is a graduate of the New York Academy of Fashion. One of her favorite hobbies is painting and sketching landscapes. Nurses, both registered and practical, are in short supply throughout the world, and thousands more are needed. The average number of registered nurses in the United States is 261 for each 100,000 population. Stephanie Lee McCandless, in her position as director of Hawaii's extra-curricular high school program on world affairs, superintends the program of fifty-two high schools on six different islands. She was born in St. Louis, Missouri, but members of the McCandless family, her near relatives, were instrumental in launching the pineapple and sugar industries in the islands. This background, Miss McCandles declares, was one of the factors drawing her to Hawaii, where she has lived for eight busy years. 905 EDITORIAL Volume 53 December 1966 Number 12 @ Belle S. Spafford, President Mi Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Mi Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mi Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G, Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson lrene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Cleone R. Eccles Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West M@ The 136th Semi-Annual General Conference was held in the historic Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, September 31 and October 1, and 2, 1966. The proceedings were broadcast in four languages to the world over nearly two hundred radio and television stations, carrying afar to many nations the message of the everlasting gospel. The theme of the conference, vital to this and all generations, was the everlasting commandments and covenants revealed through the restoration of the gospel. For the first time, five members of the First Presidency attended Conference, and each of them, except President Thorpe B. Isaacson, who is_ recuperating from an illness, addressed the assemblage. President David O. McKay, in his ninety-fourth year, keynoted the opening session and declared the gospel of Jesus Christ and the observance of its responsibilities and requirements as the only effective solution of the problems of a perilous world: Today, in the midst of the world's perplexity, there should be no question in the mind of any true Latterday Saint as to what we shall preach. The answer is as clear as the noonday sun in a cloudless sky.... This is the Word which we should preach— the gospel plan of salvation.... Proclaim that God lives, and that his Beloved Son is the Redeemer and Savior of mankind; that he stands at the head of his Church that bears his name.... These eternal verities are applicable in the year 1966 as they were when Jesus first promulgated them. - Bro throughout the world to bring UP their Children jn light and truth, and thus to establish the fundamental Patterns of Virtue, obedience, and responsibility: entirely Universal. -. The Father Permitted Lucifer to come here so that he could tempt us and test our faith. {t is a divine decree, and one that is evidently €ssentia] that we have this Mortal Probation, and we are in it to be tested and Proved to see i trial.. | This Mortal life js Part of eternal very deed in every way, the power of God unto Salvation. It gives to every man the Perfect life here, and through Obedience of 80Sspel Principles, it gives us eterna] life. To know God and his Son iS eternal life, There is the key. Eternal life is what | desire | life eternal, for me and Mine, for you, and for all 907 Tall Me of Love Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 6 Synopsis: Julie Ridgehaven, who has been attending college in California, is called back to her home in Sydney, Australia, because her fiance Ron McLaren is lost in the bush. Julie's friend Betz Condon has accompanied her to Australia, and the girls go with members of the Ridgehaven family on an expedition to search for Ron. Also in the party are Aunt Isabelle, who had once promised to marry Dr. George; and Wally Ridgehaven, Julie's cousin, who has become interested in Betz. The women take over the housekeeping duties at the Ridgehaven station in the bush, and the men set out in search of Ron. @ Julie lay on the straw mattress in the bunk across from Betz, weeping silently into her pillow. Everything in her world was a threatening black cloud. 908 Knowing how Betz felt about Wally was almost more than she could bear. Grandfather and all the family would blame her for bringing Betz to Australia. Aunt Isabelle would be disturbed, and Julie wanted every happiness for her now that she had found Dr. George again. She looked so much improved; she had even eaten a fairly good dinner. Where is Ron? Her heart repeated over and over. The only answer always terrified her. In the daytime she was able to control her thoughts, but here in the darkness they tumbled relentlessly across her mind. Ron was out in that vast wilderness alone, maybe hungry or dying of thirst and exposure; fighting with dingos or poisonous snakes or— her breath sig'ied in fear—maybe down in some old mine hole, try- ing to climb up, slipping down again, down, down, down! "Oh, no!" she cried out, frantically. '""No! No! No!" Betz sat up, calling to her: "Julie, listen, dear. Try not to think about it. It hurts too much. Let's say our prayer again. Remember Big Dan told us we must have prayerful faith in their success." "TI know," Julie answered. "Oh, Betz, I pray every minute, all day, all night." Betz got out of bed and knelt beside her. "Julie," she whispered. "You know something? You're tops in my book. I love everything about you. I really want to be like you are, courageous and lovable and full of music. Don't give up, Julie. None of us could take it if you broke down. Wally said today...." Her voice stopped suddenly. "Go on," Julie prodded her. "What did that redhead say about me? Tell me," she demanded. Betz wet her lips. "Well," she went on. "He said you are really Grandfather Ridgehaven's very favorite. The apple of his eye. He holds you way up there on a pedestal, sort of a pattern for his grandchildren to follow." "How—how real crazy!" Julie said, but a little warm feeling beat in her heart. "Grandfather loves each of us just the same." Something bumped against the door, whimpering and pawing at it. "Casey Jones! Let him in, Betz. He's been gone ever since we met the plane. He can sleep on the foot of my bunk." Casey Jones would not lie down. He whirled and pulled at TELL ME OF LOVE Julie's bed covers. Then he growled and ran back to the door again, pawing against it. "It's the screeching cockatoos that make him act this way. Did you ever hear such a_ hideous racket?" Both girls went to the window. The big white-trunked gum tree was outlined in the moonlight. Its branches were swinging with the screeching cockatoos. "The Aborigines call them demented souls," Julie told Betz. "Sometimes they carry on this way for hours. Let's put wool in our ears and try to sleep. Tomorrow is a big day. Here, Casey, come up on my bed." He barked and growled, running to the door again. Then he came back looking up at Julie. "Let him out," Betz coaxed. "You put his dinner on the porch. Maybe he's hungry. He seems frantic to get out. Only he wants you to go with him." "The cockatoos upset him," Julie said. "Maybe a run in the yard will soothe him." Julie opened the door, and Casey Jones bolted out into the night, barking at the cockatoos. She leaned back against the wall hoping she had done the right thing. She didn't want anything to happen to Ron's dog. "Ta ta for now," Betz said, imitating Wally, as she climbed into her bunk. "Ta ta for now," Julie repeated. But she could not sleep. Casey Jones should be right here on the foot of her bed, safe from harm. She arose, stepped into her slippers, shouldered into her dressing gown, and went out into the night determined to bring him back with her. 9 909 DECEMBER 1966 The cockatoos had_ stopped their wild screeching, the only sound was the faraway sighing of the wind through the bush. The moon was a bright crystal ball in the sky; its light brightened the house, chased out shadows from the yards and silvered the grayish shearing sheds. This place had been a part of her life, Julie thought. Grandfather thought each one of his family should come to one of his stations at least once a year, so they would appreciate the work and hardship that made the Ridgehaven money. He was so right, she thought. She couldn't be wasteful when she remembered how precious the smallest luxury was out here. A bright piece of ribbon would make Geena happy for days, and a bright plaid skirt was a valued possession, kept for special celebrations in the township. And water! Julie could never waste water. Not the tiniest drop! A chiming laugh came to her on the night breeze. She tiptoed toward the verandah. Dr. George and Aunt Isabelle were seated on the steps in the moonlight. Their heads were close together. They were making up for all those long, lost years. Julie could hardly breathe as she went back to her room. They would have so little time together, she thought. There was so much to be said and remembered. Before she closed the door, she whistled softly for Casey Jones, but he did not come to her. Where had he gone? She wondered with a worried frown. She lay back in her bunk wondering if she would ever sleep 910 peacefully again. Once, when she had been so excited about the closing day of school, she had told Grannie she could not sleep at night. Grannie had patted her head, answering in her whimsical way. "Then don't be afraid to stay awake. Listen to what the night has to tell you." Grannie must have had her problems, too, Julie thought. She drifted off into restless sleep, when a knock on the door brought her bouncing awake. She hurried to answer, so Betz would not be disturbed. Dr. George stood there smiling his big, warm smile. "Can we talk, Julie?" he asked, in a low voice. She shut the door behind her and followed him outside to the verandah. "We won't disturb anyone out here," he said. "Now that those cockatoos have gone, we can hear each other." "Have you seen Casey Jones?" she questioned. "Say! That dog ran down the road barking at the cockatoos. Haven't seen a sign of him since. Dogs like to get out at night." "T wish he'd come back," she said, wistfully. ""He's Ron's dog. Grandfather gave him to Ron on his fourteenth birthday." "TI remember," Dr. George said. "IT remember so many things about the Ridgehavens, Julie. They have really been my family, too, ever since I was in the University." Neither spoke for a moment, and yet there were so many things to be said. She knew Dr. George had something important to tell her about Aunt Isabelle. He was leaving at dawn with Big Dan, Uncle Geoffrey, and Uncle John. He would want her to know Isabelle's condition. Her heart rebelled against it. She did not want him to tell her the cold, hard, medical facts. She wanted to hold on to hope and faith and all of life for her. And yet, she must know so she could help her. She had to face it. She shivered with cold. The night breeze, as always in the bush, had a misty chill as if the wind had gathered moisture from the faraway ocean or unknown billabongs and sprinkled the air at night. It offered compensation for the daytime heat. The moonlight came brightly through the branches of the big gum tree where the cockatoos had been. "Why do they screech that way"? She asked. "Nobody knows," he answered. "Maybe the Aborigines are right." His face was uplifted, etched against the moonlight. Julie noticed his broad forehead, his heavy dark hair, graying at the temples, and his strong, generous mouth. He looks peaceful, she thought, incredulously. Even happy. What has happened to make him reconciled to all this? "Dr. George," her voice faltered, but she went on determinedly. 'Tell me—about Aunt Isabelle. She seems so much improved — almost herself again since she has been here with you. I couldn't understand why Grandfather had her come with us, but I believe I do now." Dr. George nodded. 'Your grandfather is a very wise man, Julie. He has lived a long time and knows much about life. Sometimes it's difficult for you TELL ME OF LOVE young people to agree with his decisions, but he always has your happiness in mind. John Robert Ridgehaven is the kind of man who will admit his mistake, if he makes one." WULIE's dark brows worried together. ''I think he has made one with Wally," she told him. "Have you not noticed how he and Betz have found something special in each other?" "IT noticed," he said, simply. "Who could help it? There is magic in the air between them." "Did Aunt Isabelle notice it?" she persisted. "She did." "Did it worry her?" Julie went on. "Was she angry because I had brought Betz from America?" "On the contrary," Dr. George laughed. "'She simply made the remark that Wally had met his match at last. She realizes that Wally is a fun-loving clown who hasn't made up his mind what he wants to do or be." "So is Betz," Julie said. "She wants every new thing that comes along. Now she wants to marry Wally, and he's engaged to Sue Ellen." Dr. George thought this over carefully. '"Well—that will work out, Julie. Don't let it worry you." "But it does, Dr. George!" Her voice rose tearfully. 'I'm so disturbed. About everything. And everybody!"' "T know," he said. "That's understandable. We're all on edge, Julie. That's why I wanted to talk to you. Don't hesitate to tell me how you feel. It will help to let it out." "You know what Ron means 911 DECEMBER 1966 to me," she said, her voice breaking. "I have never loved anyone but him, never wanted anyone but him. T'll just die— if you don't bring him back to me. Pll just die, too." The smile faded from Dr. George's face. He straightened his shoulders, folding his arms across his chest. In a flash he was the sober, professional doctor again. "No, you won't die, Julie. People don't die merely because they want to. You are a Ridgehaven. They don't give up that easily." His eyes were very kind. "T hadn't planned to tell you this at this time, but maybe I should. It will give you hope and courage and something to cling to. Sometimes patients in Aunt Isabelle's condition have what we call remissions, or regressions, in medical terms. The disease simply fades away and the patient is well. There is no explanation for it. I have reason to believe this might be happening to Isabelle." Julie could hardly breathe as she looked up at Dr. George. The bleak despair in her eyes disappeared. They were luminous with hope. "Oh, Dr. George!" she whispered. "Thank you for telling me." "We must wait to know for certain,' he added cautiously. "Do not discuss it with her nor anyone else. We must watch her constantly. That is why I have been to the township and sent a telegram to Carolyn Bridges asking her to come here and take charge of Isabelle while I am away. Have Wally meet her plane at noon tomorrow." "T will, Dr. George. We'll all be happy to have Carolyn here. I met her on the jet coming over." "She gets around a lot. I just hope she is in Perth to receive the cablegram. Don't tell Isabelle anything to disturb her," he continued. ''See that she has good, nourishing food. Did you notice that she ate her dinner tonight?" "Oh, I did. Everybody did. She's been so thin—almost starving." Dr. George nodded. "She told me she was hungry for the first time in months. That is a good sign and one reason for my hope. She should have some fresh meat. Maybe you and Cleo can figure that out." "How would mound turkey be? You know, the wild ones that are plentiful in the bush?' 'Red meat is better," he said. "But we can't be choosers out here. The sheep are forty miles away. Lamb or mutton stew would nourish her." "We'll have meat, Dr. George," Julie promised, "if I have to shoot a kangaroo. We can go out to the sheep in one of our jeeps. Miles don't mean a thing out here, Dr. George." "Quite right," he said. "Miles don't mean a thing if you're helping someone you love. Take care of her for me, Julie. And I will do everything in my power to bring Ron back to you." (To be continued) Opposite page: Temple Square. Salt Lake City, Utah, at Christmas 1965 912 Transparency by Hal Rumel West Boise Stake, Boise, Idaho Mary E. Zurcher, President 'ures Made From Christmas Cards Colorful pictures of beauty and significance can be made by combining appropriate motifs from Christmas cards into a montage for framing. Such subjects as the journey of the Magi, the field of shepherds, the star above Bethlehem, or ''the Babe lying in a manger" can be arranged through combining selected suitable elements from landscapes, figures, and designs which adorn your favorite cards. The making of the montage (or even a large mural) can be a family project. First, the subject should be selected, and the size of the picture determined. The separate motifs, carefully cut, are glued on a piece of cardboard, attached only at the bottom of the motif, leaving the top free, to give a three-dimensional effect. Start at the skyline, blending in the colors and patterns as you move downward on the cardboard, taking care to place the "point of interest" cutouts effectively in the design. For happy and illuminating "paper work," let the children cut and paste and make their very own pictures. 914 heep the Christma Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Suggestions by Helen M. Peterson The Christmas bells, the prancing, reindeer, the holly wreaths, and the poinsettia flowers that adorn our Christmas cards are much too beautiful to be discarded. The week after Christmas can be the beginning of a colorful handicraft activity in preparation for next holiday season. Collect the cards and sort them, saving the most decorative for making cutouts. For the following purposes, and for many others which will likely come to mind, the separate motifs can be cut directly from the Christmas cards: 1. Save for decorating Christmas packages. 2. Cut into sizes and designs appropriate for name tags for gifts, making a hole in each for the insertion of ribbon or cord for attaching to the parcels. 3. Use for making a mosaic under glass or cellophane for a child's dressing table, or paste on the top of doll furniture. Some of the motifs can be used for "stand-up" or "hanging-down" decorative features. For these purposes, cut the motifs from the cards in squares or triangles, or whatever shape seems to accommodate the motifs. Then paste the cut-outs on a sheet of gold or silver or iridescent foil, and cut the details through both card and foil. Uses for the motifs, thus reenforced, may be: 1. For hanging on the Christmas tree (by making a hole and inserting a hook or piece of string or ribbon). 2. Use as placecards for Christmas dinner or holiday parties (by pasting or gluing a narrow piece of cardboard on the back of the motif to make a standup support). 3. Decorate the mantel or use in arranging a table centerpiece (using a standup support). 915 San Francisco Stake, San Francisco, California PL. Collect fifteen 1% inch x 314 inch diameter cans. Remove tops and bottoms. Be sure the cans are coated on the inside with the goldcolored lining.. Cover the outside of each can with green felt (or any color desired) and, using an ice pick or punch, puncture one hole in each can along the seam.. With heavy thread stitch through felt into hole in can and suspend ornament of your desire (bells, cones, or colored balls).. Use a board %4 x 14% x 1414 inches long for base, covered in the same color as the cans. Glue five cans to 916 Christmas Tree 6. Gertrude and Gail Terry this as the start of a pyramid. Stack the remainder. Place the cans so the ornaments hang straight down and secure into position by gluing with strong glue on points of contact.. Trim the outside edges of the pyramid with some type of decorative braid (preferably metallic gold to match the lining of the cans). For base of tree (tree trunk) take a 4 oz. Can and fill-with sand. Cover with brown felt or any color desired and attach with strong glue to baseboard of the pyramid.. Upon completion, glue a top ornament to the apex can of the pyramid. Lillian L. Collett, President A Heritage of Danish Cookery Dorothy J. Roberts May we share the dishes of a Danish heritage with you—for all to enjoy? Food is a link between the generations—steaming and _ savory, associated with childhood and the pleasant memories of beloved families, cousins, aunts, uncles, and grandparents. From mother to daughter, and mother to daughter again, the recipes have been passed, "even to the third and fourth generations." It is heartwarming to learn of great-granddaughters still serving the dumpling soup their great-grandmother cooked for a Transparencies by the author, Mode! Joy Ann Christensen Danish Queen. I remember my own mother's deft hands forming the little "suinea'-shaped dumplings with the precision of a machine. And what Dane can hear the words "sweet-soup," "'redmush," or "frikadellar" without experiencing a flood of poignant memories? And then there was the "Sister Cake," so named because it was served to the visiting Relief Society sisters. Let us collect old recipes, cherish our memories, and keep alive our family ties and cultural heritage by occasionally serving the delectable dishes of the past and reviving old tales and old times. As our "living links" leave us, let them not be forgotten. Let their lives of strength, integrity, and sacrifice be ever with us in our gatherings. (Continued on page 930) 917 Winter Wonderland in Fullerton Stake (California ) Lillie T. Garrett, President A "Winter Wonderland" brought Christmas to the Third Ward Relief Society of Fullerton Stake for an early visit in November 1965. Each of twelve attractive booths was designed to look like a little house—a decorative unit of Santa's Village. The supervisor of each booth was dressed to represent the theme of her display. Included were Candy Palace, Ye Olde Bake Shop, Boutique Shop, Magicland Toys, House Beautiful, the Gift Box, The Doll House, the Clothes Cart, the Pinafore House, Stardust House, Bag of Bargains, and Ye Old Money Taker. The pictures reproduced in Christmas colors here are representative of the other outstanding displays.. ¢ all dy Al c utr The Candy Palace - The wide variety of candy featured fudge, divinity, pralines, penuche, candied popcorn, gift-wrapped popcorn, popcorn trees, and a_ bright and beautiful candy house. Christmas and Thanksgiving centerpieces reflected an artistic glow upon the display booth. Chairman Iva Dell Anderson Bore Leauitul ct tel Nm, cn PU House Beautiful - Here in a scene of exquisite design were featured resin grapes, feather flowers, dried flow- -ers, oil paintings, decorated horns of plenty, gold-leafed figurines, felt pictures, crepe paper flowers, Thanksgiving and Christmas center- ' pieces, glass grape cluster pictures, and a still life and fruit picture. Chairman, Carol Whipple Officers of Fullerton Third Ward Relief Society who planned and conducted the bazaar: Lucille Adams, President; Darlene Thornburg, Counselor, who served as chairman of the bazaar; Marilyn Petersen, homemaking leader. Val House The Doll House - This was ==<---—yr~ 8 tiful dolls and everyday dolls and wild and tame: stuffed animals. There were e "Tammy" and "Barbie" | ye doll sets and baby dolls % i with their dainty wardwe robes; "Raggedy Ann" and, a "Raggedy Andy"; playmate *. Dolls and pixie dolls. The menagerie was inhabited by camels, lions, tigers, ele- _ phants, rabbits, leopards, and Teddy bears. Tote bags, made especially for children, and small purses and bags for dolls represented "accessories" for very small ladies. Chairman, Gloria Harris Stardust House - The house was decorated with stars and gold stardust pouring from a gold dipper. The star canopy above the house = was festooned with hanging jewels, and bells and snowflakes added a shining luster to the scene. On display were felt skirts trimmed with velvet ribbon and jewels; jeweled stockings to hang at the fireplace; decorated candle balls; a gold © centerpiece, and a metal wreath; candy cane ponies, little-girl corsages, crowns for the Wise Men, Christmas calendars, jeweled trees; a laughing Santa Claus, satin balls ornately encrusted with brilliant gems; and colorful gift tags and gift wrappings. Chairman, Sandra Farrell the elegant home of beau- - 920 Joy N. Hulme Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts It is as quick as pop! Pop! Pop! To make pretty packages with plain colored wrapping paper, plastic flowers, and pop beads. Besides being attractive, these wrappings are _ especially sturdy for mailing or using again. More often than not, the plastic flowers are too bulky to be used whole, so they are taken apart and the pieces used separately. This should be kept in mind when the flowers are being purchased. Also, it is desirable that these pieces will fit comparatively flat against the package. It is a good idea to have pop beads in a variety of colors so they may be used to accent or blend with the shades of the flowers. It is best, but not necessary, to cover and decorate the lid of the box separately from the bottom. Pretty gift boxes can be used without covering. The color of the BEADED PACKAGES 921 A narrative of Christmas through the ages—"The Perfect Gift"—was presented by El Paso Stake Relief Society for Christmas 1965. Organ music, a chorus, narration, and colorful slides illustrated the prophecies foretelling the birth of the Christ, his coming to the earth in mortality, his message, and his sacred mission. The appearance of the Christ to the ancient inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere was dramatically presented, with words from The Book of Mormon repeating the glory that came upon the Promised Land. Through song and background music, the restoration of the gospel was portrayed, and the observance of Christmas through the years, with the applied significance of "The Perfect Gift," was detailed in tableau and portrait arrangements. The picture at the top of the page represents the illumined journey of the Wise Men, and the lower picture illustrates the packaged gifts for children of the present generation. Lavinia B. Jackson is president of El Paso Stake Relief Society. The dramatization was written and directed by Barbara Johnson and Aleen Rowley. 923 The Home Hecorated wilh a Christmas Welcome Homes in Salt Lake City, Utah Transparencies by J. M, Heslop A Christmas tree for children, decorated with popcorn chains, cookies, and Santa Claus. Vernon and Victoria Cooley in the Vernon Cooley home. 924 A itistimas welcome at the J. A. Hale home Roses, tassels, and crystal prisms make a radiant tree. Lydia Kalt waiting for Christmas in the Ronald N. Kalt home. Santa Claus, red tassels, and snowdrifts on a Christmas tree, Hotel Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah A brilliant and glowing Christmas tree above the city lights, Mervyn S. Bennion A tree adorned in red and gold, Z. C. M. I. Aisle of Christmas Trees, Salt Lake City, Utah Christmas comes to the Mervyn S. Bennion home— Michael, seated, admires the decorated stockings made by his mother. I "The Wise and Foolish Virgins' by William Blake (1775-1827), English (Metropolitan Museum, New York City, Rogers Fund, 1914) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6— "Virtue Nourishes the Soul' (for April 1967) Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University William Blake's watercolor of 'The Wise and Foolish Virgins" visually portrays in beautifully rhythmic lines and forms the message of Matthew 25:1-9. "Then shall the Kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. And five of them were wise, anl five were foolish. They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves." Virtue prepares one so that when the trump is sounded he is ready. As Thoreau said, '""Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open.'' William Blake, the great English visionary poet and artist, like most artists, made it possible for us to see his inner thoughts and convictions. These did not coincide with the thinking of other leaders of his time, and so he was not accepted and his fame has come in more reecnt years. All great art is an expression of the human spirit. It is a record of the artist's experience with life and his environment. Blake was a devout Christian and claims that his paintings and poetry are results of inspiration, almost as if they were gifts forced upon him. He said that the fine arts are essentially religious, and that they interpret the world and life in language of the soul. He implies that they are windows into the transcendental, invisible world, invisible to mortal sight, but presenting wider prospects, a vision of beauty in closest correspondence with the aspirations and efforts of mankind. Most of Blake's paintings and prints have a poetic, unreal quality in the rhythmic movement of the forms which he drew almost intuitively. He used no models for his figures, and invented his own devices which he used over and over as symbols. 929 DECEMBER 1966 A Heritage of Danish Cookery (continued from page 917) The recipes which follow have been modified and changed by different families and by modern conveniences and supplies. DUMPLING SOUP Combine beef broth and chicken broth, cooked separately, from 2 good-sized pieces of brisket and a shin or knuckle bone, added to broth from one hen or rooster, each flavored with one onion and a bunch of celery leaves, parsley stems, and green onion tops tied into a tight bundle with thread and dropped into the soup the last two hours, and removed with the meat and _ bones. Broth should be skimmed of nearly all the floating fat. Add, and simmer until tender: 144 qts. Raw, sliced carrots 1 sliced parsnip, raw l/, tsp. Ginger. Add the dumplings to the simmering soup. DUMPLINGS Put into a heavy fry pan: 2 slices bread, white or wheat, half-andhalf 2 c. Milk, poured over bread 14, tsp. Nutmeg, and mash bread well into milk. Add: 1 cube (4 Ib.) butter Bring all to boil, stirring well Add all at once: 1144 cup flour, and stir well, and continue folding and stirring until it is done, and forms a ball. Remove into a bowl and cool. Add: 2 eggs, one at a time, stirring well. Y, tsp. Salt. Form into little dumplings, round in the center, with pointed ends; do this with a teaspoon by pressing the dough against the side of the bowl, being sure to dip the spoon into the hot soup for each dumpling. Drop them into the simmering soup and cook till they rise to the top. Add, just before serving: finely cut parsley sprinkled over the soup. 930 GREEN KALE SOUP (Gronkaal) 5 or 6 cups stock from 2 ham hocks boiled with an onion and skimmed of fat. Add: 1 heaping tablespoon of rice and cook 1% hour. Add: 2 diced raw carrots 1 diced raw potato Simmer till tender. Add: 2 cups finely chopped kale 34, cup finely chopped onion tops or chives Boil 5 minutes Add: 4 cup finely chopped parsley. Remove from heat. Add: 44 cup cream or canned milk, and serve. FRIKADELLER 2 slices bread, white or wheat, soaked in 14 cup water. Stir well. Add: l, teaspoon nutmeg 2 tablespoons chopped onion or green onion tops 1% teaspoon allspice 14 teaspoon pepper 1 teaspoon salt 2 rounded tablespoons flour 1 egg 114 lb. Ground chuck (the 14 lb. May be pork sausage). Form into small, round cakes and fry in 2 tablespoons butter, lightly till barely done. SISTER CAKE 14 cup milk; or canned milk diluted with equal amount of water 14%, teaspoon cardamom, preferably pounded from the whole spice Scald the mixture and add: 1 cube butter (14 lb.) Y4 cup sugar 3/4, teaspoon salt Stir and cool and add: I dry yeast cake soaked in 4 cup water. Stir. Add: 1 cup flour 2 eggs beaten one at a time 2 cups flour. Beat until smooth. Add: Y cup currants Let rise to double, punch down twice. Put into 2 loaf pans. Brush tops with beaten egg white. Sprinkle with 14 cup sugar ard 14 cup slivered almonds or raisins. Let rise to double. Bake at 375 degrees for about Yy, hour. SWEET SOUP 1 cup dried prunes 34 cup raisins 14, cup currants Soak a day and a night in the refrigerator in a bottle with water to cover well. Pour into a pan. Add: 1 package frozen raspberries 1 tablespoon minute tapicoa 114 cups water A HERITAGE OF DANISH COOKERY 2 or 3 tablespoons sugar. Let stand till berries thaw. Bring to a boil and boil 1 minute or 2. Drop a stick of cinnamon into the mixture and let stand for ten minutes. Stir. Remove the cinnamon stick, wash, and dry to use again. Serve either warm or boil and boil one or two minutes. RED MUSH 1 pk. Frozen rhubarb 4 Santa Rosa deep red plums, cut from stones and stewed until tender in water to cover, with 3 tablespoons sugar added. Add rhubarb, and stir well or blend in blender. There should be about 214 cups of sauce. Add 2 tablespoons sugar and 4 cup minute tapioca. Let stand a few minutes. Then bring to a boil, stirring, and boil 2 minutes. Remove and cool. Serve with cream. Most any combination of fruits or juices may be used for this Red Mush. FOR A NEW HOME Iris W. Schow We shail not miss the old house much, because We'll make the new home all the old home was; The beacon light of home forever gleams In well-loved faces and familiar dreams. HOW FAR? Rowena Jensen Bills How far is it to Bethlehem, And can | find my way Through tinseled street, a blatant horn And merry-maker's play, Through the jostling, weary crowd, The din of music played; Past shop window's neon glare — (The Christmas we have made!) Past all the false and frenzied flourish To a manger where The Christ Child waits for us if we But seek for him through prayer? 931 = The war years were over and the world had settled into an uneasy peace. The children were still scattered across the land. Christmas came and Doctor and I were alone. This was the first time since we were married that some of the children would not be with us. We felt rather lonely but were determined that we would keep the usual Christmas spirit. Doctor put up the greens and a large Christmas tree before the front window. We decorated it with care and we thought it was the loveliest tree we had ever 932 Myrtle Stowell Call had. The room looked very gay, and the gifts under the tree added charm and color with their bright wrappings and gay ribbons. I had always wanted to give Doctor a special gift at Christmas time, a gift that would endure and be a reminder of my love and devotion. The year before, on the day after Christmas, I went to Edgley's jewelry store. I chose a man's ring with a beautiful diamond in a lovely setting. I had Mr. Edgley put it away, and I BE PSA SAS OZ Ss arranged to make payments on it every month. Finally, it was paid for, and a few days before Christmas I went to the store to pick it up. The jeweler put it in a beautiful blue velvet box, wrapped it in bright paper, and decked it with ribbons. Later I put the box in a larger box nested in tissue paper. Then I put beautiful wrappings on it. Christmas Eve came. Friends dropped in. Helene and Vaun each called long distance to wish us a happy Christmas. Finally, we were alone. We knew that all was well. As the stillness, which is a part of Christmas Eve, settled over the house, we decided to break an old custom. On Christmas morning the family had always gathered around the tree and had opened our presents together. Tonight, we would open the special presents, our gifts to each other. We went to the tree for our packages and returned to our chairs before the dying embers in the fireplace. I laid my gift on Doctor's knees, and in my hand he put a small box. He shook his box. "Is it a shirt or a sweater?" he asked. "You can never guess," I assured him, "so you might as well open it." I watched breathlessly as he removed the wrappings. At last he drew out the velvet box. His interest increased. He opened it carefully and the sparkle of the stone matched that in his eyes. "How on earth did you manage this?" he exclaimed. "What a beauty!"' I told him the story of how I had put it away and paid for it over the past year. He had a twinkle in his eyes when he asked, "'Aren't you going to open your present now?" "T can hardly wait," I said, as I began to remove the wrappings. As they fell away, a lovely blue velvet box lay in my hand. With trembling fingers, I lifted the lid. Inside was a beautiful diamond ring. We looked at each other and laughed. Doctor had chosen it right after the last Christmas. We had both been paying on diamond rings. "T'll bet Mr. Edgley got a lot of laughs over this," said Doctor, "he knew both of our secrets." He then took my hand and drew from my finger the ring he had given me more than thirty years before. It was frail and worn. He took the new ring from the box. "This is the kind of diamond I wanted to give you then," he said. As he placed the ring on my finger, he spoke gently the same words he had said so long ago, "T love you, I need you, together we cannot fail." 933 olor R ' A Km Fr st as ta QUILTING IS A PLEASURE Lydia Lovell Evans, Delta, Utah, learned to quilt at the age of nine and became an expert in washing and carding wool. Her quilts adorn many homes throughout the West and have won a number of prizes at county fairs. She keeps several on hand for presenting as gifts to the needy. An excellent cook, she makes regulat visits to the sick and homebound, taking samples of her cooking and baking as gifts. Mother of six children, she is blessed with fourteen grandchildren and twentyseven great-grandchildren who reflect in their lives the talents and artistry of their beloved grandmother and great-grandmother. Sister Evans has served Relief Society in many capacities since her membership in young womanhood. Elsie Clegg, Downey, Idaho, regards quilting as a handicraft worthy of her skill and her ideals of beauty in design and craftsmanship. She calls herself ''a saver and a piecer," utilizing small scraps of beautifully colored materials to make her sunburst patterns and her intricately patterned "blocks" of pleasing harmony. Her applique quilts reflect the lovely colors and shapes of natural flowers and leaves, with the added effectiveness of artistic arrangement. Sister Clegg loves to serve in Relief Society. She is devoted to her daughter, her six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren, remembering them with gifts of handicraft and homemade candy. -- sson Department (E SPIRITUAL LIVING — The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 78 — Discipleship (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 100) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: The Latter-day Saint woman is comforted to know that all things work together for good for those who are righteous, which strengthens ZION SHALL BE REDEEMED Because of the knowledge of Zion's greatness revealed by earlier prophets and because of the revelations he himself had received, the Prophet Joseph was deeply concerned with the establishment of Zion. (Ether 13:2-12; D&C 58:2-14.) This heartening message was received from the Lord: And now I give unto you a word concerning Zion. Zion shall be redeemed, although she is chastened for a little season (D&C 100:13). In the due time of the Lord, the center place of Zion or the New Jerusalem will yet stand upon the land of America. Her as a disciple of the Lord. THE LORD PRESERVES HIS FAITHFUL SERVANTS When persecution broke out in Jackson County, the brethren sent Oliver Cowdery to Kirtland to report to the First Presidency. Soon thereafter, Orson Hyde, who later became an apostle, and John Gould were sent to Jackson County with instructions from the First Presidency. While the Prophet and his party were in Canada, the Lord revealed that these two brethren were in his hands, and that if they kept the commandments they would be saved. (D&C 100:14.) From the following we learn the experience of servants of the Lord as they endeavor to serve him: 935 DECEMBER 1966... During the entire history of the Latter-day Saints, the Lord has preserved His faithful servants, often miraculously, in danger on land and sea, among enemies and false friends, until their mission was completed (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 634). PROMISES AND PROPHECIES The last three verses of Section 100 contain some promises and prophecies regarding the saints and the Lord's work. Therefore, let your hearts be comforted; for all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly, and to the sanctification of the Church. For I will raise up unto myself a pure people, that will serve me in righteousness; And all that call upon the name of the Lord, and keep his commandments, shall be saved. Even so. Amen (verses 15-17). This lesson is concerned with the promises and prophecies in those verses: (1) All things shall work together for the good of the sanctified who will find rich blessings; (2) Those who keep the commandments will be saved; and (3) The Lord will raise up a people who will serve him. Class Discussion How may we find comfort through the gospel? "BE COMFORTED" In time of worry, concern, and tribulation, the member of The Church of Jesus Christ may be blessed by the Comforter, who is the Holy Ghost. (John 14:26; 15:26.) One may receive the witness of the truth which the Lord bestows upon the sincere seeker with that Spirit. Peace in this world, rest, and comfort are the blessings of 936 obedience. (SMITH, JOSEPH F.: Gospel Doctrine, Salt Lake City, Deseret Book Company, 1956 edition, pp. 125-127.) Comfort comes to all those who seek for that blessing. Missionaries find comfort amid difficulties and discouragements. The sons. Of Mosiah rejoiced with Alma as they related their missionary experiences among the Lamanites. Because they had prepared themselves by prayer and fasting,... It came to pass that the Lord did visit them with his Spirit, and said unto them: Be comforted. And they were comforted (Alma 17:10). It is also written that those who mourn will find comfort. (Matt. 5:4; 3 Nephi 12:4.) To those mourning for loved ones who have departed this life, the knowledge of conscious existence after death continues to be a bulwark of strength. Faithful, devoted service in this life brings its rewards. (D&C 59:2; 63:49.) Every Latter-day Saint finds comfort in the many prophecies regarding the ultimate victory of the Lord's work. The Spirit testifies to this truth bringing joy and happiness. Moroni, who was the last Nephite historian, was fearful lest the readers of The Book of Mormon in the last days might not heed his message because he was not mighty in writing. The Lord's answer was that if men will come unto him in faith he will make them mighty, and the Lord will show the people that faith, hope, and charity will bring them to him in the last days. When Moroni heard these words his fears left, for he was comforted. (Ether 12:24-30.) In the promises to the saints of our times, the Lord makes known that "all things shall work together for good to them that walk uprightly" (D&C 100:15). To walk uprightly is to keep the commandments. If the member of the Church is salvation oriented, he will walk uprightly before the Lord, and he will acknowledge that this life is purposeful. His acceptance of trials, tribulations, sorrow caused by death of loved ones, and all other vicissitudes through which he may pass in life, will be accepted as a part of the total experience, and therefore, good. (Ibid., 122:5-8.) Only he, however, who keeps the commandents can understand that knowledge, peace, and comfort give rest and understanding. SANCTIFICATION OF THE CHURCH To become sanctified is the goal of every knowledgeable Latter-day Saint. (D&C 88:67-68.) Elder Marion G. Romney has told us that through the gate of baptism and the ordinance of confirmation into the Church we have begun this process.... Through these principles and ordinances we were cleansed and purified. Having thus washed our garments in the blood of Christ, we entered through the straight gate and stood redeemed on the narrow way which leads to life eternal. It should have then been, and it should now be, the controlling desire of every Church member, and it is the desire of every member who is on the way to eternal life always to retain this redeemed status (Conference Report, October 1956, page 17). To be born again by the Holy Ghost is a step to sanctification or the state of holiness, by changing from the carnal to the spiritual state. (Moroni 10:32- 33; 3 Nephi 27:19-21.) Sometimes this admonition is stated LESSON DEPARTMENT in terms of seeking perfection. (3 Nephi 12:48.) Throughout the change, one is to apply the principle of repentance. The prophetic statement that the Church will become sanctified is a requisite to the eventual building up of Zion upon the Americaii Continent. The Lord's army in that day will constitute a large number, greater than that which existed in 1834, when the saints were expelled from Jackson County, Missouri. (D&C 105: 31.) Although the number of those who will be sanctified will be great, there is no assurance that this will include all who are members of the Church. Sanctification in this life and enduring to the end will warrant receiving the celestial kingdom. (D&C 88:2, 116.) As members of the Church follow the admonition of the Lord to sanctify themselves, so much nearer is brought the day when Zion shall be redeemed. (D&C 43:9, 11, 16; 1383:4.) A PURE PEOPLE Closely associated with the building of Zion is the need for the people to become pure in heart. Class Discussion What does it mean to you to be "pure in heart'? The Lord says that his people will be pure in heart for they will serve him in righteousness. (D&C 100:16.) Zion is the pure in heart. (D&C 97: 21.) This thought is in harmony with the definition of a saint given by the Prophet Benjamin: "For the natural man is an enemy of God, and has been from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the 937 DECEMBER 1966 Lord, and becometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father' (Mosiah 3:19). We are to become saints in very deed, or pure in heart; that is, we are to change from the natural man to the spiritual man who has been' born again. (Mosiah 5:7.) The pure in heart, Jesus said, would see God. (Matt. 5:8.) Class Discussion Can one be eligible for the celestial kingdom without purity of heart? STEPS TO DISCIPLESHIP To become sanctified by purifying one's heart demands complete and full allegiance to the teachings of Jesus Christ. This idea of discipleship is discipline of self to surrender completely one's life as a follower. How may one be a follower of the Master in this sense? Here are some guidelines that will, if applied, bring success: (1) Cleave to the truth by study; (2) Prayer; (3) Righteous conduct; (4) Obey the prophets; (5) Church service. 1. Cleave to the Truth by Study Without knowledge there is no salvation. (D&C 131:6.) Gospel knowledge, if applied, will increase faith. One of the principal reasons for lack of interest in the gospel and the resultant inactivity in Church work is the lack of understanding of gospel principles. Elder John A. Widstoe concludes that applied knowledge brings strong faith. Knowledge tested and tried is the beginning of faith. For that reason "it is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." The extent of a per- 938 son's faith depends in part on the amount of his knowledge. The more knowledge he gathers, the more extensive becomes his field of faith. The degree of faith possessed by any man depends not upon the extent of his knowledge, but upon the certainty of his knowledge, which leads to the proper use of his knowledge. Thus a man of great knowledge may have weak faith, while one of limited information may have strong faith (Joseph Smith, Salt Lake City, Bookcraft, 1957, page 163). If faith is to be enlarged to bring about salvation, it must be placed in truth. (Alma 2:21.) As the certainty of knowledge also increases, the ability to discern truth is augmented because truth is discernible to the faithful. (Ibid., verse 35.) In a world beset with false doctrines, theories, and ideologies inconsistent with the teachings of the gospel, it is now increasingly necessary that Latter-day Saints be able to discern between truth and error. The Lord told his ancient disciples that, in order to keep from being deceived, they should treasure up his word. And whoso treasureth up my word, shall not be deceived, for the Son of Man shall come, and he shall send his angels before him with the great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather the remainder of his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:37). 2. Prayer In Section 100 (D&C), the Lord promises salvation to all who keep his commandments. The importance of prayer in the keeping of the commandments is indicated in his promise, as follows: And all that call upon the name of the Lord, and keep his command- ~alll ments, shall be saved. Even so. Amen (D&C 100:17). Only those who have enjoyed the influence of family and secret prayer can truly understand the relationship of prayer to salvation. Even in the beginning Adam was counseled to "call upon God in the name of the Son forevermore" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 5:8). From then to the present dispensation, considerable emphasis has been placed upon this important principle. The place of prayer in one's life was stated by Nephi:... Ye must not perform any thing unto the Lord save in the first place ye shall pray unto the Father in the name of Christ, that he will consecrate thy performance unto thee, that thy performance may be for the welfare of thy soul (2 Nephi 32:9). The Latter-day Saint who strives to keep the commandments, increasing in knowledge, learns an important principle of prayer given in a modern revelation, as follows: Draw near unto me and I will draw near unto you; seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you; And if ye ask anything that is not expedient for you, it shall turn unto your condemnation (D&C 88:63-65). In a day when many efforts are made to deceive both young and old, it is essential that families follow the injunction of the Lord to hold family prayer. Prey in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your Wives and your children may be blessed (3 Nephi 18:21). The counsel is 'Watch and pray that ye enter not into tempLESSON DEPARTMENT tation" (Matt. 26:41; D&C 10:5). 3. Righteous Conduct There is probably nothing that will keep a person from praying and seeking to follow the Lord's instruction more than does sin. He who treasures his membership in the Church will repent speedily of those things that will take him away from the Lord's Spirit and communion with the saints. 4. Obey the Prophets It is safe to say that no one can be a successful Latter-day Saint and disregard the teachings of the prophets who live today. To court disfavor of the Lord by rejecting his servants is to lose one's exaltation (D&C 84:35-38; 49-53). And if my people will hearken unto my voice, and unto the voice of my servants whom I have appointed to lead my people, behold, verily I say unto you, they shall not be moved out of their place. But if they will not hearken to my voice, nor unto the voice of these men whom I have appointed, they shall not be blest, because they pollute mine holy grounds, and mine holy ordinances, and charters, and my holy words which I give unto them (D&C 124: 45-46). 5. Church Service Class Discussion Wherein does Church service bring salvation to us? If we serve the Lord devotedly we must also serve our fellow men. Participation gives communion with fellow Church members and thus the desire to keep the commandments is increased and faith is enlarged. The development of talents and gifts is possible through service to others. President George F. Richerds expressed it this way: "One might ask: Why all the activity we see in the Church, in the min- 939 DECEMBER 1966 istry abroad, in the ministry at home, in the stakes and wards, in the priesthood quorums and auxiliary associations, in genealogy and temple work, in Church school and seminary work, etc.? The answer might be briefly given thus: The salvation of man depends upon it. It is the work and glory of God to accomplish the salvation of his children, by the plan of the Gospel which he has revealed. The religious activities seen in the Church and in which we are engaged are for the purpose, and are assisting the Lord in the noblest work, the most important service in which man may be engaged" (Conference Report, April 1936, page 79). It is wisdom to understand this principle, said the Prophet Benjamin. And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God (Mosiah 2:17). CONCLUSION The Lord has made specific promises to his followers that if they walk uprightly before him, seeking to sanctify themselves and, thereby, to sanctify the Church, they shall be comforted. The Lord says that he will raise up a people who are the pure in heart. For us, the wise decision is to be one of those who shall have an opportunity to build Zion upon the earth and to be one with the sanctified to inherit the richest blessings the Lord bestows upon his faithful children. For Consideration Do you believe that a discussion with your family on the steps in becoming a disciple of the Lord emphasizing why it is so important for each one to become a disciple would help them? RETURNING Eva Willes Wangsgaard Home had remained the same—the lighted church, The winding country road, the singing wires, Snow-whitened hills seen through a leafless birch, And dormant fir trees decked with glassed in fires. The sky was blue as any Christmas card And clear as | remembered long ago, Arched by a Milky Way and duly starred To blue the shadows on unsullied snow. Yet it was still—no jingling bell or sleigh Sent out a merry not of welcoming— The silence was estranged from yesterday, No falling snowflake spread a crystal wing. Then into solitude a great plane flew And even home was linked with change, | knew. 540 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Alice Colton Smith Message 78 — '"'For if you keep my commandments you shall receive of his fulness, and be glorified in me as I am in the Father" (D&C 93:20). Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To realize that through obedience the promises When our budget is stretched to its limits or the actions of our children seem unbearable, or our teenager has just announced his freedom from _ responsibility— when moments of despair or frustration come—have we not asked ourselves, "Is it worth it? Am I succeeding in the things that are really important?" After such a day of personal frustration, when nearly everything seems to have gone wrong, how many times have we—you and I—walked out into the cool of the night and looked up at the stars? Billions of light years away, their radiance winking at us, God's creations are flung like powdered jewels across the sky. This awesome sight helps us gain a degree of tranquility and strength. We are reminded through almost every form of communication — newspapers, magazines, radio, television, and conversation—that many in the world lack high standards and values. What is it that men seek? Many seem to strive all their lives for power, dominion, wealth, possessions, prestige, and_ privilege. What do we seek? To what do of God to man are limitless. We give our time and talents? Do we hunger for knowledge and strive to gain it? Do we seek truth? Do we long to have our plans come to fruition? Are we helping to further the Lord's work by keeping his commandments? For those who do, the Lord has said, '""'They are they into whose hands the Father has given all things.... All things are theirs" (D&C 76:55, 59). One need not look only to the hereafter for blessings for having obeyed the commandments. Listen to the Lord: "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you.... Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27); "... The fulness of the earth is yours" (D&C 59:16). The promise to the worthy faithful is that they may "dwell in the presence of God and his Christ forever and ever' (D&C 76:62). A time will come when "nothing shall be withheld... All... Shall be revealed and set forth upon all who have endured valiantly for the gospel of Jesus Christ" (D&C 121:28-29). 941 HOMEMAKING MEETING — Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To explain that credit wisely used can be a tool in assisting family income, but that it can be a hazard to family happiness Note: if over-extended. The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing the objective of the discussion. INTRODUCTION Latter-day Saints are counseled by Church leaders to stay out of debt. They are reminded of the serious problems and unhappiness caused by debt. Credit buying involves spending income before it is realized and, unless families use credit or installment buying wisely, they may find themselves in serious financial straits. No matter how carefully a family works out its financial management plan, there are times when it becomes necessary to use some form of credit. The very nature of modern economic structures, not only in America but in some other countries as well, is based on a system of credit. Monthly bills for telephone and utilities are standard practice, and many other services depend almost entirely on the policy of credit which is established between businesses and their customers. The ordinary commercial bank is organized primarily to give commercial credit as well as other services to their customers. Credit is used to establish con- 942 fidence in the ability, reputation, and character of an individual or a family. This is termed "credit rating," and it is essential to have in modern business practice. The self-supporting and selfsufficient family can use credit in emergencies and do so with a feeling of confidence and selfrespect. Yet for the greatest amount of satisfaction and peace of mind, credit, if necessary, should be used wisely as a tool in strengthening a family's ecoomic future rather than as a crutch to bolster an already overburdened financial structure. THE USE OF CREDIT Understanding the use of credit is essential if it is to be beneficial. Credit, when used, should be looked upon as a part of the whole family business plan determined by wise choices and decisions and harmonized to agree with the best reasoning of the group. Although the use of credit increases the purchasing power and thus makes possible the pr: - vision of added goods or services, repayment for the amount bor- rowed or credit extended, together with interest for its use, must eventually be made. Credit is simply deferred payment and a payment which generally involves extra costs. For example: a refrigerator may be _ priced $219.00. If purchased on the installment plan the dealer may require a $20.00 down payment and $10.00 monthly payments for 24 months. Total credit cost _...........0...........$260.00 Cash price.........2...-.....2.0.----2-200- 219.00 Difference _.....-.0.........022eeeeee ee 41.00 The saving of $41.00 could be a significant factor in determining to save the money beforehand, and pay cash for the refrigerator. To use credit intelligently, the consumer must be sure that he is fully aware of the terms of the contract and that the satisfaction derived from its use is worth the price. The credit load should never be so heavy as to cause tension in the family during the repayment period. A_ thorough analysis of available types of credit or installment buying is necessary in order to choose the source that offers the best buy with the least hazard of extras: fees, penalties, salary assignments or possibilities of repossession of goods or property. In some instances there are no "carrying charges" or interest payments for credit extended for a year or less. It would be wise to contract for payments which will complete the purchase in less than a year. Many people do not know what credit costs; they only know how much the payments are per month. Learning to use credit in ways that contribute to individual and family happiness LESSON DEPARTMENT is the only real justification for its use. WHEN (S CREDIT JUSTIFIED The use of credit is never justified if repayments exceed the ability to pay. The ease of obtaining credit seems to make it difficult for some families to keep their spending consistent with their income. Many families who manage their finances well use credit for the purchase of necessary commodities and profit by doing so, while others are caught in a_ continual round of debt which they cannot control. What should be bought on credit — a house, a car, furniture? Is the desire to possess some commodity sufficient justification for its purchase? Discuss the dangers involved. One valid reason for using credit is to make possible additional earning power. Education, including training in special fields and professions, is increasingly being financed by credit plans. The purchase of equipment for the carrying on of a profession or occupation would also be included in this category. To Discuss There are certain questions a family should be concerned about which, if answered honestly and realistically, can guide in making intelligent decisions about the use of credit. 1. Is the use of this credit worth the added cost to the family? 2. Can the family budget justly assume the credit loan? Can it meet the loan payments completely and on time? 3. Will this transaction be a good thing for the family as a whole? 4. Does the credit add a needed and essential utility or satisfaction? 5. Are the terms of the contract completely understood so_ that the transaction is free from unexpected penalties or hazards? 943 DECEMBER 1966 If the family cannot answer all of these questions in the affirmative, they may be sure that they are treading on dangerous ground and that it would be well for them to refrain from jeopardizing their future by the contracting of unjustifiable debt. Elder Thorpe B. Isaacson gave the following advice in an address delivered in General Conference, April 1963: It would be well if a man and his wife could sit down and go over their finances together, particularly pertaining to their indebtedness, and plan to get out of debt and not go in any deeper, unless they know there is a way in which they can repay their obligations. Women would do well to know more about their husbands' finances and to make sure that they have a sound fiscal policy in their own family. They would do well if they could save a little for the future, practice the law of thrift, not be extravagant and wasteful, and save a little of what they make and not spend it all. It would be well if a family could go without some things until they can afford them. List the Disadvantages and Advantages of credit buying. DISADVANTAGES You will be in debt! Cost of article is increased. Over-buying and extravagance are encouraged. Buyers sometimes feel less responsibility to the payment of their obligations when not paying cash. 5. Unforeseen emergencies may make repayment difficult. Fo ERS ADVANTAGES 1. Buyer has use of article while paying for it. 2. Installment buying may encourage thrift in persons who do not save unless obligated to meet payments. 3. Some things may be acquired that otherwise would not be possible. SOCIAL RELATIONS — On Earth and in Heaven Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 3—'"Follow Thou Me" (2 Nephi 31:10) Reference: ''On Earth and in Heaven,'' Melchizedek Priesthood Manual—1967, Lessons 20 and 21) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To assist Latter-day Saint women in understanding the ordinance of baptism and to point out the individual responsibilities FOLLOW-UP Have a class member relate the reaction of a child, or of an adult in relation to a_ special blessing as a guiding influence. 944 involved in this everlasting covenant. INTRODUCTION Baptism as a word and as a religious rite has become so familiar to us that often we may lose awareness of those aspects which give it significance as an essential gospel ordinance. Perhaps we may not know the specific answers to such questions as (1) Who and how was the first person on earth baptized? (2) Were the prophets of old baptized? (3) Were baptisms performed anciently on the American Continent? (4) Why is immersion the approved method of baptism? (5) What symbolism is involved in the ordinance of baptism? (6) Why was Jesus, the Christ, he who was without sin, baptized? This lesson will give consideration to these questions, correlating closely with lessons 20 and 21 of the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual. BAPTISM IN ANCIENT TIMES That Adam, our first mortal father, was baptized, is recorded in the following words: And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water. And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever (Moses 6: 64-66). That baptisms were performed in the days of the Old Testament patriarchs and prophets is indicated in the following scripture: Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our LESSON DEPARTMENT fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost... (Moses 8:24). IN ANCIENT AMERICA That baptism as an _ ordinance essential to salvation was well known to Israel's prophets anciently, has ample scriptural support. Baptisms were also' performed anciently upon the American Continent. Hundreds _ of years before the advent of the Savior, inspired men foretold the coming of the Messiah, in the meridian of time, and taught the principles of the gospel, including the significance and _ the blessing of baptism. Consequently, numerous baptisms were performed before the birth of the Savior, as is evidenced in the following scripture: And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preach unto the Lamanites with such great power and authority, for they had power and authority given unto them that they might speak, and they also had what they should speak given unto them— Therefore they did speak unto the great astonishment of the Lamanites, to the convincing them, insomuch that there were eight thousand of the Lamanites who were in the land of Zarahemla and round about baptized unto repentance, and were convinced of the wickedness of the traditions of their fathers (Helaman. 5: 18-19). Nearly six hundred years before the voice of John was heard in the wilderness of Judaea, crying, '""Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight" (Matt. 3:3), the prophet Lehi, upon the American Continent, spoke prophetically of the coming of the Messiah, of the preparatory mission of John who would baptize in Bethabara, beyond Jordan, and that he "should baptize with water; even that he 945 DECEMBER 1966 should baptize the Messiah with water" (1 Nephi 10:9). Lehi foretold that after the baptism of Jesus with water that he (John) should behold and bear record that he had baptized the Lamb of God, who should take away the sins of the world. At the time the risen Lord visited the Nephites upon the American Continent,... He spake unto Nephi (for Nephi was among the multitude) and he commanded him that he should come forth. ' And Nephi arose and went forth, and bowed himself before the Lord and did kiss his feet. And the Lord commanded him that he should arise. And he arose and stood before him. And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven. And again the Lord called others, and said unto them likewise; and he gave them power to baptize. And he said unto them: On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no disputations among you. Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them (3 Nephi 11: 18-23). "TO FULFIL ALL RIGHTEOUSNESS" During the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Emperor of Rome, the people in the vicinity of Jerusalem were aroused by the strange preaching of one called John, son of Zacharias, later to be known as John the Baptist. The burden of his message was repentance and baptism for the remission of sin. "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand" (Matt. 3:2) came from the voice in the wilder- 946 ness. Those who professed faith, and confessed their sins, he baptized by immersion in water, proclaiming, "I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire" (Matt. 3:11). To this same prophet preacher, Jesus came journeying from his home in Galilee to Jordan to be baptized of him. But John forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me? And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him. And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (Matt. 3:14-17). The prophet Nephi saw in vision the events surrounding the baptism of Jesus and received by revelation knowledge as to why the Savior, who was without sin and had no need for repentance, should be baptized. And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even by water! And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by water? Know ye not that he was holy? But notwithstanding he being holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments. Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost descended upon him in the form of a dove. And again, it showeth unto the children of men the straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by which they should enter, he having set the example before them. And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall be willing to keep the commandments of the Father? And the Father said: Repent ye, and be baptized in the name of my Beloved Son. And also, the voice of the Son came unto me, saying: He that is baptized in my name, to him will the Father give the Holy Ghost, like unto me; wherefore, follow me, and do the things which ye have seen me do (2 Nephi 31:5-12). For Discussion The foregoing scripture points out several ways by which the baptism of Jesus might "fulfil all righteousness": 1. Setting an example to all men as to the method (immersion) and importance of the ordinance of baptism, his admonition being 'Follow thou me... And do the things which ye have seen me do" (2 Nephi 31: 10, 12). 2. Witnessing to the Father that he would be obedient unto him in all things. 3. Evidencing that he was willing to humble himself before the Father. Would the following reasons for man's being baptized apply to the baptism of Jesus? Discuss. 1. For the remission of sin. 2. As a precedent to receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost. 3. To gain salvation. 4. To get on the straight and narrow path that leads to the celestial kingdom. 5. To gain membership in the kingdom of God on earth (the Church). LESSON DEPARTMENT WHAT IS BAPTISM? Baptism is an ordinance of salvation, admitting men to membership in the earthly Church and making it possible for them to enter and progress in the celestial kingdom of the Father.... Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.... A man may be saved, after the judgment, in the terrestrial kingdom, or in the telestial kingdom, but he can never see the celestial kingdom of God, without being born of water and the Spirit. He may receive a glory like unto the moon, [i. E. Of which the light of the moon is typical], or a star, [i. E. Of which the light of the stars is typical], but he can never come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels; to the general assembly and Church of the Firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus the Mediator of the new covenant, unless he becomes as a little child, and is taught by the Spirit of God (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 12; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 20). Baptism is spoken of as a "new and_ everlasting covenant' in modern scripture (D&C 22:1). It is new in that it has been revealed anew in this day and everlasting since it was inaugurated in the beginning as being essential to salvation and will continue to be required of men as long as the earth stands. In lesson 20 of the 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, are these succinct statements: Salvation is offered to man by covenant. That is, man enters into a contractual agreement with the Lord whereby man may be saved in the 947 DECEMBER 1966 kingdom of God on certain terms and conditions. The gospel itself is the everlasting covenant by which salvation is offered, and man accepts the provisions of the gospel covenant by being baptized. Baptism is in effect the signing of the gospel covenant by man.. In ancient America a goodly number of Nephites had assembled at the waters of Mormon, and Alma "did preach unto them repentance, and redemption, and faith on the Lord" (Mosiah 18: 7). And it came to pass that Alma said unto them:,.. As ye are desirous to come into the fold of God, and to be called his people, and are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life— Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you? (Mosiah 18:8-10); 1967 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven. Lesson 20). Class Activity In the foregoing scripture, Alma speaks of baptism as a covenant and enumerates a number of things that man must be willing to do in order that he shall have in return: 1. The Spirit of the Lord, that is, receive the gift and companionship of the Holy Ghost. 948 2. Be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, and have eternal life. What are the seven terms and conditions of the baptismal covenant, as summarized by Alma, at the waters of Mormon? BY WAY OF COMMANDMENT Baptism is not merely an invitation for men to come and partake of the blessings of the gospel. Having instituted it as an essential to salvation, the Father desires all who will comply with this saving ordinance to have the benefits to be derived therefrom. It is given to man by way of commandment, as is attested by the following words of the Savior, spoken to the Nephites: Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on this wise shall ye baptize them—Behold, ye shall go down and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them. And now behold, these are the words ye shall say, calling them by name, saying: Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth again out of the water. And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in me, and the Father and I are one. And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize (3 Nephi 11: 23-28). "BAPTISM REQUIRED IN ALL AGES" The Prophet Joseph Smith stated that, | In the former ages of the world, before the Saviour came in the flesh, "the saints" were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ to come, because there never was any other name whereby man could be saved; and after he came in the flesh and was crucified, then the saints were baptized in the name of Jesus Christ, crucified, risen from the dead and ascended into heaven, that they might be buried in baptism like him, and be raised in glory like him, that as there was but one Lord, one faith, one baptism, and one God and Father of us all, even so there was but one door to the mansions of (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Compiler: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 266). IN SIMILITUDE "All ordinances of the gospel are ordained in such a way as to teach and symbolize eternal gospel truths" (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, On Earth and in Heaven, Lesson 21). The sacramental bread and water which are in remembrance of the Savior's sacrifice of flesh and blood, is an example. Symbolism is likewise involved in the ordinance of baptism by immersion; symbolizing the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. The ordinance is performed by an authorized bearer of the Priesthood and consists of immersion in water and the recitation of the following prescribed baptismal prayer: Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen (3 Nephi 11: 25). For definite reasons, immersion of the body in water is the only approved mode of baptism. The example set by Jesus, who was baptized of John, confirms this statement. It is of interest bliss. LESSON DEPARTMENT to note that '"Sprinkling or pouring did not come into vogue until two or three centuries after Christ, and such a practice was not universal until about the 13th century, A. D." (SMITH, JoSEPH FIELDING: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, page 323). President Joseph Fielding Smith further states: Baptism cannot be by any other means than immersion of the entire body in water, for the following reason: 1. It is in the similitude of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and of all others who have received the resurrection. 2. Baptism is also a birth and is performed in the similitude of the birth of a child into this world. 3. Baptism is not only a figure of the resurrection, but also is literally a transplanting or resurrection from one life to another—from the life of sin to the life of spiritual life (Ibid., pages 323-324). Further clarification of reason number 2 is found in Moses 6: 58-60, as follows: Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children, saying: That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten, that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory. For by the water ye keep the commandment; by the Spirit ye are justified, and by the blood ye are sanctified. Class Activity 1. What does it mean "to teach 949 DECEMBER 1966 these things freely unto your children'? 2. Need a mother wait to do this until a child nears the time for baptism? If not, how may she prepare him for this ordinance at a younger age? 8. Following are some of the aspects of baptism important for the child to know. Discuss as time permits: a. Baptism is a commandment of the Lord. B. Baptism admits to membership in the Church. C. Baptism is the pattern set by Jesus. D. Baptism is by immersion. E. Baptism brings a remission of sin. F. After baptism one is accountable for his own actions. If there is a recently baptized member in the class, have her relate very briefly her change of attitude after baptism. CONSIDER THE JUSTICE Since baptism is an ordinance of salvation essential to man's exaltation; since no accountable individual can enter the celestial kingdom without benefit of baptism; and since baptism is an ordinance to be performed upon earth, the justice of divine law requires that provision be made for all those who have died without having an opportunity, to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ and by authority of the Holy Priesthood. Vicarious baptism for the dead is that provision. It is an important evidence that the Lord's house is a house of order and that divine justice operates in both the kingdom of heaven and in the kingdom of earth. FOR HOME DOING Implement the class discussion by checking through the commitments involved in the covenant of baptism. Check on your own performance to see if they are a directing force in your life. If there are children in the home, help them to see that baptism involves individual responsibility. NOTE TO CLASS LEADERS In presenting this lesson emphasize in the discussion how these ordinances directly affect each sister's life and, in turn, the lives of those who live with her. (See Lesson Helps.) ONLY ONE SONG Alda L. Brown For this brief moment He was her Child... Newborn and soft and warm Against '/her breast. Outside the world could wait To claim this infant King.... But for this brief time He was Mary's Child! Let the star falter in the sky! Let the Wise Men pause in their journey! Let the heavenly angels hush their singing, "All Hail, the newborn King!" For in Mary's heart There was only one song.... A silent lullaby That only mothers sing... 950 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Elder Robert K. Thomas Lesson 5 — Diligence Ennobles Work "All things are won by diligence." Menander (Textbook: ''Out of the Best Books"' Volume I]: Love, Marriage, and the Family by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: In her own diligence a woman can help others appreciate The selections in this month's lesson do not attempt to glamorize work, for no superficial makeup hides honest perspiration very long. What the stories, essays, and letters in this section do hope to accomplish is to present a fresh examination of a necessity that has been taken for granted so long that it usually excites little thought. Work, in some form, is part of our lives from their very beginning. In infancy, the simplest physical coordination must be worked at. As we grow, mental and spiritual development requires constant effort. At some point in our lives, many of us work for money. If no life is free from work, why are some forms of toil so much less pleasant than others? One theme that is shared by the diverse accounts in this section, is that our attitudes toward work are crucial. "THE REVOLT OF MOTHER" In this story by Mary E. Wilkins Freeman, Sarah Penn's revolt is less an assertion of indithe virtues which ennoble work. Viduality than it is a plea for fairness, yet her success does not come from insisting on her rights. It comes from serving so unselfishly and consistently that even Adoniram's work-hardened exterior is broken through. Sarah's arguments fall on ears which have little disposition to hear, but her actions present an unanswerable case. She doesn't threaten to stop making the pies her husband loves to eat between meals. And even his shock at finding his family moved into the new barn, is quickly tempered by the fine meal he is promptly served in it. Adoniram may be a bit dazed by all that has happened, but the author has us note that he "ate well." Both the strengths and weaknesses of work as habit can be seen in this story. Hard, habitual work can be a great source of solace in time of distress. After pleading with her husband unsuccessfully for the house he had promised her, and which he can now well afford to build, she cries only briefly. Soon Sarah is at 951 DECEMBER 1966 work, planning and piecing the shirts she is making for him. Yet it is quite possible that her work goes virtually unappreciated because it seems more a reflex action than a conscious effort. It takes the shock of an abrupt change in their generally uneventful lives for the Penns to see one another freshly. Adoniram suddenly realizes how much Sarah has wanted a new house, and Sarah comes to know how much her taciturn husband really cares for her. Class Discussion In the light of Sarah Penn's situation, how might she have avoided being taken for granted? What are the strengths and weaknesses of habitual diligence? Does this story give you fresh insight into your own life situation? "ECONOMY" This essay by Henry David Thoreau warns us about work that loses its significance because it fails to provide for growth. Thoreau insists on aspiration as a part of diligence. We must see to it that our work—whatever its nature—is uplifting. It isn't what one does so much as unthinking acceptance of one's supposed lot that degrades men. The challenge that Thoreau's words present to women everywhere is the opportunity to make daily tasks significant as well as routinely necessary. Are the daughters who grow up in your homes going to be "resigned" to housework? Remember Thoreau's insistence that "resignation is confirmed desperation.' Are the sons, whose prime example is their mother, going to think that motherhood is synonymous with drudgery? If doing dishes is only 952 preparation for another meal, the cycle of our lives can indeed become a vicious one. But if doing dishes can be seen in terms of establishing patterns of order and cleanliness, if routine tasks can be viewed as essential discipline for more creative effort, the diligence of a wife and mother can set a tone toward work that will bless the lives of all who know her. Class Discussion: Why do you think Thoreau feels so strongly about "resignation"? Can any type of work be made more significant? Discuss Thoreau's famous line "As if you could kill time without injuring eternity." How does this harmonize with Latter-day Saint belief? LABOR Thomas Carlyle's identification of work with religion in the essay, which is printed in our text, from his book Past and Present, should be particularly appealing to members of the Church. His insistence that "Labor, wide as the Earth, has its summit in Heaven" attempts to ennoble work by showing its divine attributes. In stating that "Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no other blessedness,"' we must not infer that having an occupation which one enjoys is enough. In the lines which follow this assertion Carlyle lets us see how wide-ranging his concept of work is. For to do our very best in any positive endeavor is to align us with "all nobleness." There is also a sobering reminder of the necessity of proving our beliefs by acting upon them: "Doubt, of whatever kind, can be ended by action alone." Carlyle's special message to women might well be that all order is the result of work. Yet order is not to be achieved merely for its own sake. Such order can become so mechanical that it keeps us from seeing that all earthly order is a reflection of heavenly order. If we can inspire those for whom we are responsible—including ourselves—with a proper attitude toward work, our diligence will be just one more expression of our religious faith. Class Discussion In your own experience, what task has let you see the religious nature. Of work best? "THE APARTMENT HOUSE" The Apartment House Severe against the pleasant arc of sky The great stone box is cruelly displayed. The street becomes more dreary from its shade, And vagrant breezes touch its walls and die. Here sullen convicts in their chains might lie, Or slaves toil dumbly at some dreary trade. How worse than folly is their labour made Who cleft the rocks that this might rise on high. Yet, as I look, I see a woman's face Gleam from a window far above the street. This is a house of homes, a sacred place, By human passion made divinely sweet. How all the building thrills with sudden grace Beneath the magic of Love's golden feet! —Joyce Kilmer (1886-1918) (From Trees and Other Poems, Copyright 1914 by George H. Doran Company, published by Doubleday and Company, Inc. Reprinted by permission. ) LESSON DEPARTMENT Class Discussion In the opening lines to "The Apartment House," Joyce Kilmer presents a harsh picture of modern city living, but he implies that any dwelling can become a "sacred place" if it is infused with loving service. How much is such service dependent upon wife and mother? Can members of a family be truly served if they do not serve in return? "THE WOMAN" In "The Woman" by Zona Gale, we see the result of doing one's "utmost" to be happy by making others feel our confidence and support. No work is more creative than that which inspires growth in others. Again and again, Bellard tries to become what he thinks his wife expects of him, and in such constant effort he can't help but develop. Class Discussion We may be so struck by Lucile in "The Woman" that we fail to appreciate what the husband becomes. What does Lucile see in Bellard that makes her effort worthwhile? "LETTERS FROM ABIGAIL TO JOHN ADAMS" In these letters we meet a woman who combines many of the qualities of diligence which other authors have stressed. She has Sarah Penn's consistency, Thoreau's sensitivity to what is significant, and Carlyle's religious orientation. Only one woman in American history has been both a wife and a mother of a President. That woman was Abigail Smith Adams (1744-1818). If there is something of accident in such a distinction, the more one reads of Abigail Adams' life the less one is prompted to credit happenstance. Especially in the letters 953 DECEMBER 1966 which she wrote to her husband do we see a woman tirelessly working to become the kind of wife an emerging statesman needs, and the mother of a son who will be prepared for great things. Space will permit the printing of only one letter. Others may be read in the text. The time was preliminary to the American Revolutionary War. Braintree, 19 August, 1774. The great distance between us makes the time appear very long to me. It seems already a month since you left me. The great anxiety I feel for my country, for you, and for our family renders the day tedious and the night unpleasant. The rocks and quicksands appear upon every side. What course you can or will take is all wrapped up in the bosom of futurity. Uncertainty and expectation leave the mind great scope. Did ever any kingdom or state regain its liberty, when once it was invaded, without bloodshed? I cannot think of it without horror. Yet we are told that all the misfortunes of Sparta were occasioned by their too great solicitude for present tranquility, and, from an excessive love of peace, they neglected the means of making it sure and lasting. They ought to have reflected, says Polybius, that, "as there is nothing more desirable or advantageous than peace, when founded in justice and honor, so there is nothing more shameful, and at the same time more pernicious, when attained by bad measures and purchased at the price of liberty." I have received a most. Charming letter from our friend Mrs. Warren. She desires me to tell you that her best wishes attend you through your journey, both as a friend and a patriot,—hopes you will have no uncommon difficulties to surmount, or hostile movements to impede you, but, if the Locrians should interrupt you, she hopes that you will beware, that no future annals may say you chose an ambitious Philip for your leader, who subverted the noble order of the American Amphictyons, and 954 built up a monarchy on the ruins of the happy institution. I have taken a very great fondness for reading Rollin's Ancient History since you left me. I am determined to go through it, if possible, in these my days of solitude. I find great pleasure and entertainment from it, and I have persuaded Johnny to read me a page or two every day, and hope he will, from his desire to oblige me, entertain a fondness for it. We have had a charming rain, which lasted twelve hours and has greatly revived the dying fruits of the earth. I want much to hear from you. I long impatiently to have you upon the stage of action. The first of September, or the month of September, perhaps, may be of as much importance to Great Britain as the Ides of March were to Caesar. I wish you every public as well as_ private blessing, and that wisdom which is profitable both for instruction and edification, to conduct you in this difficult day. The little flock remember papa, and kindly wish to see him; so does your most affectionate Abigail Adams. Although she was denied a formal education because of delicate health, young Abigail read widely in the libraries of her father and grandfather. Too often, such informal reading results in vague awareness but not precise understanding. One need only note the allusions in her letter of August 19, 1774, to realize how completely the young Mrs. Adams has been assimilating her reading. What is more impressive is her determination to keep reading the kind of material which will enlarge her horizons. Most impressive of all is the approach she is using to get her young son to develop a liking for demanding study. With an inspiring mother like Abigail, it is not too surprising that young John Quincy Adams was able to accompany the American Min- ister to Russia as private secretary at the age of fourteen! Not only does Abigail Adams pursue her education diligently; she is equally determined to take as active a part as possible in the stirring events of her time. Despite the anxiety she feels for her husband's safety and the cares of running the family farm, she is eager "'to receive and entertain, in the best manner I am capable, the gentlemen who have so generously proffered their service in our army." As battles actually approach her home, she does not flinch at the discomforts of siege nor the terrors of family illness. She can still quote spritely lines from Poor Richard's Almanac and conclude that "if we can obtain the Divine aid by our own virtue, fortitude, and perseverance, we may be sure of relief.'"" When two members of her immediate family die within weeks of one another she is brokenhearted, but not broken in spirit. Long weeks without a husband intensify her LESSON DEPARTMENT loneliness but increase her appreciation of the blessings she still enjoys. Her faith in God never wavers. For Abigail Adams work was never partial. Her diligence combined mental resources, physical effort, and religious sanction. In the wholeness of her life there were support and direction for her immediate relatives and inspiration for those who continue to feel her dynamic, tender strength in the family letters which now belong to the world. Class Discussion In the light of her letters, what qualities in Abigail Adams do you think her children would remember longest? If self-discipline is evident in almost every letter, what evidence do we have that this state had to be achieved and constantly worked at? Note to Class Leaders Class leaders should not try to use all of the literary selections discussed in this lesson but should choose the one or more best suited for the members of the class. SD PART OF THE SEQUENCE Bertha A. Kleinman The lights of the past are shifting, the beacon fires F Y have gone out, The theories of old are drifting, rudderless, fogged in doubt. The facts of yesterday's proving are quandaries tomorrow must solve, The stars that were fixed stars are moving, the glories of heaven evolve. And | who am part of the sequence must grow into chaster design, Perfecting and pledging allegiance to blend with the pattern divine. 955 Christmas Gifts Souvenir Relief Society Building Plate: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Sego Lily Jewelry: Necklaces Heavy chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, goldfilled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled, polished back. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 Small Relief Society Emblem Pin (1/10 — 12 kt. Gold) $1.75 Rellef Society Magazine: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 Cover for Binding Twelve Issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 "Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?"' Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Luc I Mik. Blew to any home library. $2.00 957 in this issue). $4.00 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 841114 "Ula th TL 918, Fsthens Basta? De Satin sts Passover and a valuable addition History of Relief Society 144 pages, illustrated (see page History of RELIEF SOCIETY 1842-1966 A Gift to be treasured in all seasons For Relief Society Women Everywhere @ The illuminated pathway of the World-Wide Sisterhood from its divine origin in Nauvoo, Illinois, to the present time. Relief Society women in the covered wagons on the plains — in the Valleys of the Mountains — in many States and Nations encircling the globe. Biographical Sketches of the General Presidents — narratives of the origin and development of the various departments. Objectives and aspirations of Relief Society. Includes the material published in A Centenary of Relief Society (1942), out of print for many years, and brings the history up to the close of 1966. Beautifully Illustrated in Color, supplemented by numerous black and white photographs 144 pages — size 9x12 inches — gold-lettered and Edition Bound in Cloth Comprehensive Index included Price $4.00, postpaid Off the press January 16, 1967. Orders received at the office of The General Board of Relief Society 76 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 957 REMEMBERING FAITH Enola Chamberlin | remember seeing faith jin my mother's eyes As, following my father's dreams, She looked at alien skies. | remember seeing faith In smiles with which she met The hardships of a dusty road, The children's tired fret. | remember seeing faith In her busy hands, As she set dear plants to grow In strange and unknown lands. | remember hearing faith, No matter drought or blight, In her voice when she knelt down To say her prayers at night. BEAUTIFUL HANDY DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, 'Utah 84104 Phone 486-1892 Cloth Cover — $3.25; Leather Cover — $5.25 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and 2.... 55 Zone 6.......... 90 Zone 3.......... 60 Zone 7..........1.05 Zone 4.......... 65 Zone 8..........1.20 me 5.......... 80 Salt Lake City's Newest Handicraft Shop UTAN CRAFT & NOVELTY We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, paper flowers, and many others. Write for new catalog. 50¢ Free Instructions also available UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. Renee Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 ROSE PARADE TOUR December 27 HAWAIIAN TOURS December 21 Ask about our Mexican Tour Margaret Lund Tours 110 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 328-8982 485-2444 958 _W. Cleon Skousen Feb. 7 Departure MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY PLEASE SEND INFORMATION ON YOUR SOUTH AMERICAN TOUR. NAME MURDOCK ADDRESS TRAVEL —— LATE BORN <i ga ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Francisco Isaac; to Zacharias, John— ask each having many years before he held a son; given some to know; (Young men, bold men, easy in your minds, can you equal this joy a later father finds?) —After unbelieving, Salt Lake City, Utah 84103 to Zacharias, 959 To Abraham, strange are the answers after long desiring and the dream let go. The blessed promise done: = oe John. Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 ROSE PARADE TOUR Via San Diego Dec. 27 — Jan. 3 James Travel Tours 460 7th Avenue Phones: 363-5229 — 359-8051 107 100 97 95 95 960 Dithday Congratulations Mrs. Hilda Anderson Erickson. Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Hannah Axelina Johnson Nyquist Weiser, Idaho Mrs. Mary Evans Newman Tooele, Utah Mrs. Louis Rappleye Hunter Nelson. Orem, Utah Mrs. Ellen Morris Marriott Ogden, Utah Mrs. Laura Benson Wray Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Diana Merritt Bleazard Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lottie Hancy Broadbent Ogden, Utah Mrs. Katie Holliday Cragun Portland, Oregon Mrs. Lily Munk Livingston Manti, Utah Mrs. Hannah Christine Nelson Osborne Ashton, Idaho Mrs. Abbie Jane Moyer Willden Price, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Wilson Haynie Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Lavinia Mae Winter Woods Fullerton, California Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde Mortensen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Sarah Foss Elliott Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Minnie Crum Carnes Safford, Arizona Mrs. Barbara Ellen Merrill Hawke Lorenzo, Idaho 92 Mrs. Maria Parkinson Darley Red Bluff, California Mrs. Armitta Peterson Clark Lehi, Utah Mrs. Ninadell Klepper Shelby, Montana Mrs. Emily Ritchie Petersen Roy, Utah Mrs. Susan Parker Beus Hooper, Utah Miss Clay Allred Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Evelyn Betsy Harding Christensen Harris Orem, Utah Mrs. Anne Marie Andersen Jensei Salt Lake City, Utah an am Mrs. Bertha Riedel Wagner = =. Mrs. Lillian Yates Evans Plymouth, California a Pa, Mrs. Mae Peterson Brown Safford, Arizona Mrs. Ellen Pearcey Gladwell re Ogden, Utah ¥, Mrs. Addie Thorne Nelson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Sims Tucker Pasadena, California Mrs. Martha Cornelia Payne H Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Susan Hayes Gilmore Ogden, Utah Miss Mary Frances Duncan West Covina, California Mrs. May Hulse Monson Millville, Utah Mrs. Ellice Madsen Moffitt Manti, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah z Books are a long-remembered gift... Give a book WHY THE RELIGIOUS LIFE by Mark E. Petersen $3.95 Elder Petersen gives us a vivid explanation of exactly why the "religious" life is so desirable... Why it leads to true happiness here and exaltation in the hereafter. Testifying that man's destiny is to become like God, he counsels us that obedience to gospel principles and activity in the Church are the first necessary steps. TEACH ME by Dorthea C. Murdock $3.50 Created originally to meet the need for nursery activity during Relief Society, this fine book will find a wider use in the home and by all teachers of the very young. TEACH ME is full of delightful things for little folks... Stories, make-it projects, fingerplays, games, etc. OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 2 by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.95 An essential aid for Relief Society cultural refinement lessons. Exciting and pertinent extracts from the best literature in the English language. Use for Relief Society, or for sheer personal reading pleasure. Ample quantities of this book are now available. Order this L. D. S. Best seller now! Mail soon for Christmas delivery. Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake ' SALT LAKE CITY Sanimne 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 2 im WHY THE RELIGIOUS LIFE ER TEACH ME ([] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. 2 Enclosed is check/money order for full amount, including 3'% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange store. Or charge my account. Peres Pa Thr <p gle ol wl 4 16 gp elie wy whe ps 6 ele ¥ 4 ote 60 8 8 ee pe ail ws ee Bie 8 ae ele oie ee ew mew Oe OG BUONO TTS oe a4 s we oie @ ok 6k wm te wie ee owe ek ee ee we le et we wie ee eH Oe te we fe oe COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL RS. Dec. 66 City, Utah 84110; or 777 South Main, Orange, Calif. 92669 | OPEN A DESERET BOOK ACCOUNT NOW — SEND FOR DETAILS! Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Have an old-time Send for Cynthia Scott's* | ns free folder, ""World of Holiday Sugar Fun." Tells how you can easily make these unusual holiday decorations and g" many others. Funfor 2 | the whole family! (* Home economist for Uand I Sugar) Our way "« of wishing =i you a very Al Merry Christmas! Ae U and I Sugar Company P. O. Box 2010 Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 Please send me Cynthia Scott's folder, "World of Holiday Sugar Fun."
